

1 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: CURRENTS: HABITATS; 
A Little Imagination Yields a Lot of Compact Living

BYLINE:  By Elaine Louie 

 BODY:
The Architectural League of New York will display the work of the six winners of its Young Architects Forum. "For economic reasons, they reduced habitation to a very personal scale -- small," said Anne Rieselbach, the league's program director. 
 One of the winners, Mike Latham, designed a six-foot-square steel-and-acrylic box, bottom, with a bed on top and storage below and inside, for Patricia Belen, a graphic designer. 
She used it in Brooklyn, then had it shipped to Las Vegas, where she lives, for $480. Mr. Latham is in Brooklyn, at (718) 302-4164. 
 Todd MacAllen and Stephanie Forsythe created a two-story, solar-powered, 1,000-square-foot home, right, for a woman and her horse near Fort Collins, Colo. The woman lives on the top floor and uses part of the first floor; her horse shares the rest of the downstairs. The pine-clad house, and a woodshed, cost $120,000 to build. The architects are in Vancouver, (604) 685-0340. 
Lisa Hsieh designed a model for a 10-foot-square pod, below, with aluminum structural beams and an inflatable skin, that can serve as an emergency shelter. Ms. Hsieh, who collaborated with Jr-Gang Chi, can be reached at (646) 495-7184. 
All winners receive $1,000, are featured in a 176-page book (Princeton Architectural Press, July 2004) and are invited to lecture at the league, at 457 Madison Avenue; (212) 753-1722. The show runs May 8 through June 25. 

GRAPHIC: Photos (Forsythe & MacAllen; lower left, Andrew Bordwin;top left, Lisa Hsieh) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (54%) ARCHITECTURE 

ORGANIZATION: ARCHITECTURAL LEAGUE OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: LOUIE, ELAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003



2 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Guggenheim Grows: The Next Stop Is Rio 

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
At a time of budget cuts, staff reductions and sagging attendance at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, Thomas Krens, its director, has been focusing on increasing the Guggenheim's international presence. Yesterday he and Cesar Maia, the mayor of Rio de Janeiro, signed an agreement to build a $130 million museum on Maua Pier in Guanabara Bay. Rio will be the sixth city with Guggenheim museums and exhibition spaces, joining Berlin; Venice; Las Vegas; and Bilbao, Spain, as well as New York. 
 "We're engaging an entire continent," Mr. Krens said. "We live in a very international world. From the perspective of operating museums, all our contact is East-West. The North-South equation doesn't exist. To ignore that is crazy." 
 Much like the hugely successful Guggenheim Bilbao, opened in 1997 with funds from the Basque regional government to help revitalize the economically ailing city, the Guggenheim Rio de Janeiro will be financed by Rio as part of a larger project to revive its waterfront. Mr. Maia said the city had been trying for 25 years to reverse the degradation of the port area, its historic heart. He estimated that the new museum's presence alone would result in some $500 million a year. 
The French architect Jean Nouvel has been hired to design the Guggenheim Rio de Janeiro. Groundbreaking is expected in June, and the building is to open in 2007. 
Mr. Nouvel, who will receive $12 million for the project, has designed a compound with about 240,000 square feet of interior space. It consists of gallery buildings and pavilions interspersed with tropical gardens, some below sea level. The design also includes a black-box theater, a performance space, a multimedia production center, educational areas, a cafe, a restaurant, a retail shop and outdoor space. 
Mr. Nouvel said yesterday that he saw this design as a mysterious grouping of buildings that was a neighborhood itself. Rio officials said they hoped it would be as much of a draw as the titanium-clad Guggenheim Bilbao, designed by Frank Gehry, which attracts more than a million visitors a year.
Two other Guggenheim partners, the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia, and the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, are also involved in the project. Two years ago the three museums signed an alliance to collaborate on exhibitions, programs and new ventures. 
So far the Guggenheim has received more than $2 million from Rio to work on feasibility studies for the new museum. Over the next three years the Guggenheim, the Hermitage and the Kunsthistorisches will share another $28.6 million as a kind of licensing fee for the rights to use their names and for their participation in programming. The Guggenheim has signed a 25-year agreement to help the new museum with all aspects of its operations. From 2003 to 2007, during the museum's development, the Guggenheim will receive an annual fee of $836,000. 
While the city of Rio will operate the museum, the Guggenheim, the Hermitage and the Kunsthistorisches will offer Rio its collections and programming. Mr. Krens said the Rio museum would also begin collecting Latin American and Brazilian art, giving it a regional as well as international presence. And just as many of the Guggenheim's traveling exhibitions will now go to Rio, some of the Guggenheim Rio de Janeiro's art will travel internationally. 
After Mr. Krens's success in Bilbao, he was approached by about a hundred cities around the world interested in developing their own Guggenheims. Discussions about this museum began about a year and a half ago, when Mr. Krens and his curators were putting together "Brazil: Body and Soul," a vast show designed by Mr. Nouvel and devoted to baroque and contemporary Brazilian art.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A model of Jean Nouvel's design for the Guggenheim Rio de Janeiro. (Guggenheim Museum)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); THEATER (73%) ART 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; MAIA, CESAR (MAYOR); KRENS, THOMAS; NOUVEL, JEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%) RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL); BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



3 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: A Surprising Success On North Korea 

BYLINE:  By Brent Scowcroft and Arnold Kanter; Brent Scowcroft, president of the Forum for International Policy, was national security adviser to Presidents Gerald Ford and George H. W. Bush. Arnold Kanter, a senior fellow at the forum, was under secretary of state from 1991 to 1993.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
No one expected a breakthrough in the talks in Beijing last week among the United States, North Korea and China on resolving the North Korean nuclear problem, and none was forthcoming. Instead, the meetings were predictably sterile, unexpectedly truncated, and marked by the paradoxical combination of bellicose bluster and hints of possible deals we have come to expect from Pyongyang.
 But it would be a mistake to dismiss the talks as a farce or a failure, as many inside the Beltway have. On the contrary, the United States made important progress toward stability in Northeast Asia. In fact, the North Koreans' behavior probably alienated their previously sympathetic Chinese hosts, and may have strengthened America's hand globally in the dispute. In addition, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has now revealed that North Korea offered a plan to take steps in dismantling its nuclear and missile programs in exchange for economic and security benefits. 
 In no event did the talks change any of the fundamentals. That is, North Korea still requires urgent and sustained attention, and the range of options for dealing with it remains unappetizing.
The current crisis began last October when North Korea admitted that it has a program to produce highly enriched uranium for nuclear weapons. In doing so, it tacitly confessed that it had been cheating on the so-called Agreed Framework of 1994. In the ensuing weeks, North Korea took increasingly provocative steps, including expelling the international inspectors who were monitoring its nuclear facilities, restarting a nuclear reactor that could produce more plutonium, and withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. With each step, it moved closer to becoming a full-fledged nuclear weapons state.
The United States has responded by asserting that it wants to resolve this increasingly dangerous situation through diplomacy if possible, but repeatedly noting that it has not taken any options off the table. It has also insisted that it will not pay blackmail -- that is, it will not reward North Korean cheating by offering inducements for Pyongyang to come back into compliance with its existing obligations. Put differently, paying for a return to the terms of 1994 Agreed Framework is not an acceptable option. Finally, the United States has maintained that any engagement with North Korea must be multilateral, and explicitly ruled out direct, one-on-one talks with Pyongyang.
Up until the Beijing talks, the other concerned parties -- particularly South Korea, Japan and China -- had been urging the United States not to let form get in the way of substance, and had been pressing Washington to agree to direct talks. The United States resisted, insisting that any lasting solution to the North Korean problem could be achieved only if Pyongyang's neighbors were involved in talks. It has also been urging the Chinese to use their influence to get North Korea to halt (and, ideally, reverse) its march down the nuclear road, and also to agree to multilateral talks.
Considered against this backdrop, the talks in Beijing should be chalked up as a success for the American approach, and a testament to effective American leadership. Most important, the Chinese role has changed. In response to United States requests, China has gone from its more familiar posture of sitting on the sidelines of controversial international security issues to playing an active and constructive role. Indeed, there is little doubt that the North Koreans would have refused to come to the table had the People's Republic not all but directed them to do so, a point the Chinese underscored by suspending critical fuel shipments to North Korea for several days. (There also are reports that Beijing told Pyongyang not to cross the red line of reprocessing its spent fuel to extract more plutonium.)
And the Chinese did not simply convene the meeting, but participated actively, making the talks multilateral in fact as well as form. Moreover, the decision by China to play host to the talks gave it a major stake in a resolution of the issue, and the North Koreans' behavior during those meetings -- which deeply embarrassed the Chinese -- improves the odds that Beijing will continue to use its leverage on the North.
These developments are significant, not least because it is difficult to imagine any lasting resolution of the North Korean problem that does not involve China, as well as South Korea and Japan. At the same time, we should not lose sight of two key points. First, the Beijing talks shed little light on whether North Korea would be willing under any reasonable set of circumstances to abandon its programs in nuclear weapons and missiles to deliver them. Second, it remains in the American interest to pursue multilateral engagement with North Korea to try to find out the answer.
United States objectives likewise remain the same. We will not pay blackmail, and we will not buy the same horse twice. But we do want to stop North Korea from being a threat to peace and security in northeastern Asia and a supplier of weapons of mass destruction elsewhere. To realize these goals, we must dismantle the North Korean nuclear and missile programs in a way that is realistically irreversible and verifiable.
In return, we should be willing to join with others in providing credible assurances to North Korea that it need have no concern about its own security, so long as it does not threaten others. We should also make clear that we would be prepared to take a leading role in ending North Korea's political and economic isolation. Such a proposal would be a deal about a whole new horse, going far beyond the 1994 Agreed Framework. 
As for North Korea's intentions and objectives, the Beijing talks offered confusing and contradictory hints. Only when there are serious negotiations to make clear both what we and the other concerned parties require of North Korea, and what we are prepared to do in return, will we get to the bottom line.
The United States accordingly should make clear that it is prepared to continue its policy of engagement with the North (to be expanded as soon as possible to include South Korea and Japan) with a view to negotiating a peaceful resolution. This willingness, however, will be predicated on a freeze in North Korea's nuclear and missile activities. We can press the case that if the North Koreans are serious about putting those programs on hold, we would reciprocate with respect to our military forces in andaround the Korean peninsula. But if North Korea continues to expand its nuclear activities and, in particular, if it pursues the reprocessing of its spent fuel rods, the United States will have no choice but to fundamentally reassess its commitment to a diplomatic resolution. 
There is no assurance that Pyongyang will respond positively to such an approach, much less that negotiations will be successful. On the contrary, history gives rise more to pessimism than hope. But even if that pessimism proves warranted -- and North Korea shows itself to be more interested in nuclear proliferation than in guaranteed security -- continuation of Washington's good-faith effort will put it in an immensely stronger position internationally to deal with the threat.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SCOWCROFT, BRENT; KANTER, ARNOLD 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (58%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



4 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS; 
Treasury Plans to Sell Notes Totaling $58 Billion Next Week

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30 

 BODY:
The federal government will sell a record $58 billion in Treasury notes next week and plans to add more sales of 5-year and 10-year securities beginning in August to help finance a swelling budget deficit, the Treasury said today.
 The Treasury will auction $22 billion in 3-year notes on May 6, $18 billion in 5-year notes on May 7 and $18 billion in 10-year notes on May 8. The securities will be used to raise a record $55.7 billion. In when-issued trading ahead of the auctions next week, the securities were offered at prices to yield 1.99 percent for the 3-year note, 2.85 percent for the 5-year note, and 3.88 percent for the 10-year note. 
 The government will begin selling 5-year notes every month beginning in August and double the number of 10-year note sales to eight times a year by reopening existing securities. Treasuries fell after the announcement. But by late in the day, bond prices rose. The 10-year note gained 22/32, to 100 9/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.84 percent from 3.93 percent on Tuesday. And the 30-year bond jumped 16/32, to 109 12/32. Its yield dropped to 4.76 percent from 4.84 percent on Tuesday.
Sluggish economic growth and three years of falling stocks have depressed tax revenue as wars against Iraq and terrorism increased government spending, forcing the United States to face its first back-to-back annual budget deficits since 1997 and the Treasury to borrow from financial markets to pay its bills.
"While these changes have been made in response to larger financing needs, they will benefit Treasury by creating additional flexibility in meeting unexpected swings in borrowing needs," Brian Roseboro, assistant Treasury secretary for financial markets, said in a statement.
The size of the debt offering is the largest since the Treasury sold $44.5 billion in February 1996 and is almost twice the size of the $33 billion of securities issued in the comparable quarter a year ago.
Peter Fisher, Treasury's under secretary for domestic finance, said the move would save the department from introducing new securities and increasing auction frequency for another year. "I don't see the need for any other instruments over that time horizon," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (50%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (68%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



5 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: An Index of Manufacturing Is Down Again 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Manufacturing in the Chicago area contracted in April for a second month as employment slid and a gauge of new orders fell to the lowest level in one and a half years, according to a survey of purchasing executives that was released yesterday.
 The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said its factory index fell to 47.6 in April from 48.4 in March. Readings below 50 indicate that business is contracting. 
 A weakening manufacturing sector and expectations of a third consecutive decline in employment this month suggest the economy has yet to revive from its Iraq war slump. Before the war, Chicago-area factories had increased production for more than a year.
"The end of active fighting in Iraq has not yet stimulated a rebound in the demand for factory products," said Steven Wood, chief economist at Insight Economics in Walnut Creek, Calif. "With slack demand, production is stagnant and jobs are being eliminated."
The purchasing managers' index had been expected to edge up to 48.9, based on the median of 52 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Economists and investors watch the Midwest for clues about the direction of the nation's manufacturing. Chicago and its environs are home to more manufacturing jobs than any other metropolitan area.
The Institute for Supply Management releases its national factory index for April today.
The Chicago purchasers' index of new orders dropped to 44.6, the lowest since 44.5 in October 2001, from 52.5 in March. The decline of 7.9 points was the largest since a decrease of 12.7 in August 2000.
A gauge of production rose to 51 from 49.1. The index had its biggest decline in 23 years last month and showed the first drop in production since December 2001.
The employment index fell to 43.7 from 45.1 in March. The region's factories have been cutting jobs since March 2000, the longest decline in two decades. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LAYOFFS (79%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (57%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%) NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



6 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2668 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST PEACE PROPOSAL; 
Proposal for 'Final and Comprehensive Settlement' to Middle East Conflict

 BODY:
Following is the text of a peace plan for the Middle East by the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations, as provided yesterday by the State Department:
 The following is a performance-based and goal-driven road map, with clear phases, timelines, target dates and benchmarks aiming at progress through reciprocal steps by the two parties in the political, security, economic, humanitarian and institution-building fields, under the auspices of the Quartet. The destination is a final and comprehensive settlement of the Israel-Palestinian conflict by 2005, as presented in President Bush's speech of June 24, and welcomed by the E.U., Russia, and the U.N. in the July 16 and Sept. 17 Quartet ministerial statements. 
 A two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will only be achieved through an end to violence and terrorism, when the Palestinian people have a leadership acting decisively against terror and willing and able to build a practicing democracy based on tolerance and liberty, and through Israel's readiness to do what is necessary for a democratic Palestinian state to be established, and a clear, unambiguous acceptance by both parties of the goal of a negotiated settlement as described below. The Quartet will assist and facilitate implementation of the plan, starting in Phase I, including direct discussions between the parties as required. The plan establishes a realistic timeline for implementation. However, as a performance-based plan, progress will require and depend upon the good faith efforts of the parties, and their compliance with each of the obligations outlined below. Should the parties perform their obligations rapidly, progress within and through the phases may come sooner than indicated in the plan. Noncompliance with obligations will impede progress.
A settlement, negotiated between the parties, will result in the emergence of an independent, democratic and viable Palestinian state living side by side in peace and security with Israel and its other neighbors. The settlement will resolve the Israel-Palestinian conflict and end the occupation that began in 1967, based on the foundations on the Madrid Conference, the principle of land for peace, U.N. Security Council Resolutions 242, 338 and 1397, agreements previously reached by the parties, and the initiative of Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah endorsed by the Beirut Arab League Summit calling for acceptance of Israel as a neighbor living in peace and security, in the context of a comprehensive settlement.
This initiative is a vital element of international efforts to promote a comprehensive peace on all tracks, including the Syrian-Israeli and Lebanese-Israeli tracks.
The Quartet will meet regularly at senior levels to evaluate the parties' performance on implementation of the plan. In each phase, the parties are expected to perform their obligations in parallel, unless otherwise indicated.

Phase I: Ending Terror and Violence, Normalizing Palestinian Life, and Building Palestinian Institutions, Present to May 2003
In Phase I, the Palestinians immediately undertake an unconditional cessation of violence according to the steps outlined below; such action should be accompanied by supportive measures undertaken by Israel. Palestinians and Israelis resume security cooperation based on the Tenet work plan to end violence, terrorism, and incitement through restructured and effective Palestinian security services. Palestinians undertake comprehensive political reform in preparation for statehood, including drafting a Palestinian constitution, and free, fair and open elections upon the basis of those measures. Israel takes all necessary steps to help normalize Palestinian life. Israel withdraws from Palestinian areas occupied from Sept. 28, 2000, and the two sides restore the status quo that existed at that time, as security performance and cooperation progress. Israel also freezes all settlement activity, consistent with the Mitchell report.
At the outset of Phase I:
* Palestinian leadership issues an unequivocal statement reiterating Israel's right to exist in peace and security and calling for an immediate and unconditional cease-fire to end armed activity and all acts of violence against Israelis anywhere. All official Palestinian institutions end incitement against Israel.
* Israeli leadership issues an unequivocal statement affirming its commitments to the two-state vision of an independent, viable, sovereign Palestinian state living in peace and security alongside Israel, as expressed by President Bush, and calling for an immediate end to violence against Palestinians everywhere. All official Israeli institutions end incitement against Palestinians.

SECURITY
* Palestinians declare an unequivocal end to violence and terrorism and undertake visible efforts on the ground to arrest, disrupt and restrain individuals and groups conduction and planning violent attacks on Israelis anywhere.
* Rebuilt and refocused Palestinian Authority security apparatus begins sustained, targeted and effective operations aimed at confronting all those engaged in terror and dismantlement of terrorist capabilities and infrastructure. This includes commencing confiscation of illegal weapons and consolidation of security authority, free of association with terror and corruption.
* Israel takes no actions undermining trust, including deportations, attack on civilians; confiscation and/or demolition of Palestinian homes and property, as a punitive measure or to facilitate Israeli construction; destruction of Palestinian institutions and infrastructure; and other measures specified in the Tenet work plan.
* Relying on existing mechanisms and on-the-ground resources, Quartet representatives begin informal monitoring and consult with the parties on establishment of a formal monitoring mechanism and its implementation.
* Implementation, as previously agreed, of U.S. rebuilding, training and resumed security cooperation plan in collaboration with outside oversight board (U.S., Egypt, Jordan). Quartet support for efforts to achieve a lasting, comprehensive cease-fire.
* All Palestinian security organizations are consolidated into three services reporting to an empowered interior minister.
* Restructured/retrained Palestinian security forces and I.D.F. counterparts progressively resume security cooperation and other undertakings in implementation of the Tenet work plan, including regular senior-level meetings, with the participation of U.S. security officials.
* Arab states cut off public and private funding and all other forms of support for groups supporting and engaging in violence and terror.
* All donors providing budgetary support for the Palestinians channel these funds through the Palestinian Ministry of Finance'sSingle Treasury Account.
* As comprehensive security performance moves forward, I.D.F. withdraws progressively from areas occupied since Sept. 28, 2000, and the two sides restore the status quo that existed prior to Sept. 28, 2000. Palestinian security forces redeploy to areas vacated by I.D.F.

PALESTINIAN INSTITUTION-BUILDING
* Immediate action on credible process to produce draft constitution for Palestinian statehood. As rapidly as possible, constitutional committee circulates draft Palestinian constitution, based on strong parliamentary democracy and cabinet with empowered prime minister, for public comment/debate. Constitutional committee proposes draft document for submission after elections for approval by appropriate Palestinian institutions.
* Appointment of interim prime minister or cabinet with empowered executive authority/decision-making body.
* Israel fully facilitates travel of Palestinian officials for Palestinian Legislative Council and cabinet sessions, internationally supervised security retraining, electoral and other reform activity, and other supportive measures related to the reform efforts.
* Continued appointment of Palestinian ministers empowered to undertake fundamental reform. Completion of further steps to achieve genuine separation of powers, including any necessary Palestinian legal reforms for this purpose.
* Establishment of independent Palestinian election commission. Palestinian Legislative Council reviews and revises elections law.
* Palestinian performance on judicial, administrative, and economic benchmarks, as established by the International Task Force on Palestinian Reform.
* As early as possible, and based upon the above measures and in the context of open debate and transparent candidate selection/electoral campaign based on a free, multiparty process, Palestinians hold free, open, and fair elections.
* Israel facilitates Task Force election assistance, registration of voters, movement of candidates and voting officials. Support for nongovernmental organizations involved in the election process.
Israel reopens Palestinian Chamber of Commerce and other closed Palestinian institutions in East Jerusalem based on a commitment that these institutions operate strictly in accordance with prior agreements between the parties.

HUMANITARIAN RESPONSE
* Israel takes measures to improve the humanitarian situation. Israel and Palestinians implement in full all recommendations of the Bertini report to improve humanitarian conditions, lifting curfews, and easing restrictions on movement of persons and goods, and allowing full, safe, and unfettered access of international and humanitarian personnel.
* The Ad Hoc Liaison Committee reviews the humanitarian situation and prospects for economic development in the West Bank and Gaza and launches a major donor assistance effort, including to the reform effort.
* Israel and Palestinian Authority continue revenue clearance process and transfer of funds, including arrears, in accordance with agreed, transparent monitoring mechanism.

CIVIL SOCIETY
* Continued donor support, including increased funding through private voluntary organizations/nongovernmental organizations, for people-to-people programs, private sector development and civil society initiatives.

SETTLEMENTS
Israel immediately dismantles settlement outposts erected since March 2001.
Consistent with the Mitchell Report, Israel freezes all settlement activity (including natural growth of settlements).

Phase II: Transition -- June 2003-December 2003
In the second phase, efforts are focused on the option of creating an independent Palestinian state with provisional borders and attributes of sovereignty, based on the new constitution, as a way station to a permanent status settlement. As has been noted, this goal can be achieved when the Palestinian people have a leadership acting decisively against terror, willing and able to build a practicing democracy based on tolerance and liberty. With such a leadership, reformed civil institutions and security structures, the Palestinians will have the active support of the Quartet and the broader international community in establishing an independent, viable state.
Progress into Phase II will be based upon the consensus judgment of the Quartet of whether conditions are appropriate to proceed, taking into account performance of both parties. Furthering and sustaining efforts to normalize Palestinian lives and build Palestinian institutions, Phase II starts after Palestinian elections and ends with possible creation of an independent Palestinian state with provisional borders in 2003. Its primary goals are continued comprehensive security performance and effective security cooperation, continued normalization of Palestinian life and institution-building, further building on and sustaining of the goals outlined in Phase I, ratification of a democratic Palestinian constitution, formal establishment of office of prime minister, consolidation of political reform, and the creation of a Palestinian state with provisional borders.
* INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE -- Convened by the Quartet, in consultation with the parties, immediately after the successful conclusion of Palestinian elections, to support Palestinian economic recovery and launch a process, leading to establishment of an independent Palestinian state with provisional borders. Such a meeting would be inclusive, based on the goal of a comprehensive Middle East peace (including between Israel and Syria, and Israel and Lebanon), and based on the principles described in the preamble to this document. Arab states restore preintifada links to Israel (trade offices, etc.) Revival of multilateral engagement on issues including regional water resources, environment, economic development, refugees and arms control issues.
* New constitution for democratic, independent Palestinian state is finalized and approved by appropriate Palestinian institutions.
* Further elections, if required, should follow approval of the new constitution.
* Empowered reform cabinet with office of prime minister formally established, consistent with draft constitution.
* Continued comprehensive security performance, including effective security cooperation on the bases laid out in Phase I.
* Creation of an independent Palestinian state with provisional borders through a process of Israeli-Palestinian engagement, launched by the international conference. As part of this process, implementation of prior agreements, to enhance maximum territorial contiguity, including further action on settlements in conjunction with establishment of a Palestinian state with provisional borders.
* Enhanced international role in monitoring transition, with the active, sustained, and operational support of the Quartet.
* Quartet members promote international recognition of Palestinian state, including possible U.N. membership.

Phase III: Permanent Status Agreement and End of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict, 2004-2005
Progress into Phase III, based on consensus judgment of Quartet, and taking into account actions of both parties and Quartet monitoring. Phase III objectives are consolidation of reform and stabilization of Palestinian institutions, sustained, effective Palestinian security performance, and Israeli-Palestinian negotiations aimed at a permanent status agreement in 2005.
* SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE -- Convened by Quartet, in consultation with the parties, at beginning of 2004 to endorse agreement reached on an independent Palestinian state with provisional borders and formally to launch a process with the active, sustained, and operational support of the Quartet, leading to a final, permanent status resolution in 2005, including on borders, Jerusalem, refugees, settlements; and, to support progress toward a comprehensive Middle East settlement between Israel and Lebanon and Israel and Syria, to be achieved as soon as possible.
* Continued comprehensive, effective progress on the reform agenda laid out by the Task Force in preparation for final status agreement.
* Continued sustained and effective security performance, and sustained, effective security cooperation on the basis laid out in Phase I.
* International efforts to facilitate reform and stabilize Palestinian institutions and the Palestinian economy, in preparation for final status agreement.
* Parties reach final and comprehensive permanent status agreement that ends the Israel-Palestinian conflict in 2005, through a settlement negotiated between the parties based on U.N. Security Council Resolution 242, 338, and 1397, that ends the occupation that began in 1967, and includes an agreed, just, fair, and realistic solution to the refugee issue, and a negotiated resolution on the status of Jerusalem that takes into account the political and religious concerns of both sides, and protects the religious interests of Jews, Christians and Muslims worldwide, and fulfills the vision of two states, Israel and sovereign, independent, democratic and viable Palestine, living side-by-side in peace and security.
* Arab state acceptance of full normal relations with Israel and security for all the states of the region in the context of a compressive Arab-Israeli peace. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transmission error, the text of a peace plan for the Middle East on May 1, as provided by the State Department via The Associated Press, misstated a word in the final paragraph. The affected passage, referring to "The Permanent Status Agreement," should have read: "Arab state acceptance of full normal relations with Israel and security for all the states of the region in the context of a comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace" -- not "compressive."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (75%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%) UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (97%); EUROPE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); LEBANON (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; RUSSIA; EUROPE; 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



7 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Kids a Lesson 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HILLSBORO, Ore. 

 BODY:
It's still chilly in northwestern Oregon, and there's a real bite to the wind in the evenings. But for the 19,000 students in the sprawling Hillsboro public school district, summer vacation is coming real soon.
 Starved for money, Hillsboro lopped 17 days off the school year. It is not alone. Throughout this budget-stricken state, school districts are dismantling programs, firing employees and tearing pages off the school calendar. 
 There's a twist on an old adage at work here -- if it ain't broke, break it. The Oregon public school system was terrific, one of the best in the nation. Now, suddenly, it's speeding along the road to ruin, the victim of a bad economy and, more than anything else, the radical antitax fever that has gripped so many Americans.
The idea that American kids in 2003 -- first and second graders, juniors and seniors in high school -- could be forced out of their classrooms because the public will not come up with the money to pay for them is astonishing.
"During the Great Depression we didn't close schools," said Dr. Walter Hellman, a physics teacher at Hillsboro High School. "We didn't close schools during World War II. Are we the most civically irresponsible generation in Oregon in 100 years? That's a problem."
Oregon is experiencing a budget meltdown. Home to Intel and other high-tech highfliers, it suffered disproportionately from the bursting of the technology bubble. Its jobless rate is the highest in the U.S. And it is being squeezed, like many other states, by a dismal national economy.
The result has been a hemorrhaging of state revenues so severe that such fundamental services as schools, basic health care and law enforcement have been undermined. A ballot proposal to raise the state income tax temporarily and thus ward off at least some of the cuts to schools and to services desperately needed by the sick and the disabled was rejected by voters in January. 
Something ugly is happening in Oregon, and it is not unrelated to the sense of economic insecurity and the erosion of support for traditional public services that have spread across the U.S. There is a faint but unmistakable whiff of the Depression in the air. The states, collectively, are mired in their worst budget situation in half a century. Long-term unemployment across the country is way up. The lines at food banks are lengthening. And hard-core child poverty, only recently on the run, is threatening a comeback.
For years the residents of Hillsboro, a scenic suburb of Portland, felt insulated from such problems. More than 80 percent of the parents send their children to the public schools, which by all accounts have been thriving. But school funding in Oregon is a state responsibility, and neither the Legislature nor the voters have been willing to raise the additional money needed to keep the system going.
Now, in Hillsboro and other districts, there's not even enough money to keep the schools open a full year.
"The kids are being told their schools are not important and we can close them, and that's how you balance the state budget," said Ike Maness, president of the Hillsboro Education Association. "People are starting to refer to Oregon as the Mississippi of the West."
One of the more mature approaches to the crisis is coming from Ian Atkins, an 18-year-old senior at Glencoe High School who could fit the stereotype of the all-American kid. He played football and baseball, ran track and participated in poetry jams. A music program in elementary school enabled him to go on to the Portland Symphonic Boy Choir. In September he will begin classes at the University of Oregon.
Mr. Atkins is dismayed by the trashing of a school system that treated him so well. He noted that even deeper cuts are planned for next year.
"I've had so many opportunities, including sports and all the electives," he said. "It's not fair that the same classes and the same opportunities won't be around for the kids who are coming up through the schools now."
He and another student have organized a campaign to save the system. They are not casting blame, and they don't want to hear excuses. They are simply demanding that state legislators and other responsible officials find a solution -- and soon -- to a problem that is as absurd as it is destructive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (87%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILDREN (77%); SUBURBS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CHILD POVERTY (68%); PARENTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); INCOME TAX (63%); REFERENDUMS (62%); WORLD WAR II (51%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WORKING HOURS; TAXATION 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) OREGON; HILLSBORO (ORE)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



8 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Discord Over Efforts At Valuing Pensions 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
Bush administration officials said yesterday that the way pension values are now measured is flawed, to the detriment of the entire pension system, and that proposed fixes by corporations threaten to weaken the system even more.
 Peter R. Fisher, the Treasury's under secretary for domestic finance, suggested a new approach that would more closely match the dates each company's employees would retire with the maturities of the assets in that company's pension portfolio. 
 "Making pensions more secure requires a more precise measurement of pension liabilities," he said.
A drastic weakening of the pension system, which is forcing many companies to make big contributions, was also outlined in testimony before a Congressional panel yesterday. While there is general agreement among various groups that some steps need to be taken, the business community has advocated change of a different sort in recent months. Apparently to ease the transition for businesses, Mr. Fisher suggested keeping the current rules in place for two more years. 
But the business community responded with hostility.
"It's unacceptable," said Mark J. Ugoretz, president of the Erisa Industry Committee, a Washington advocacy group that represents large companies that sponsor traditional pension plans. Even with the two-year lag, he said the proposal would be akin to a bank announcing all 30-year mortgages would have to be paid off in 5 years.
Mr. Ugoretz also called the administration proposal "a tremendous disincentive to retain older employees."
The question of how best to calculate pension obligations is of tremendous importance to the companies that sponsor pension plans, as well as to their employees and investors. The value of a company's pension obligations dictates the amount it must set aside each year to make sure it can fulfill its obligations to retirees in the future.
Current measuring techniques and conditions in the financial markets have combined to swell pension obligations, requiring many companies to make substantial cash contributions at a time when economic growth is slow and cash is scarce. Some companies have complained that the measuring techniques are faulty, causing them to divert cash from business pursuits to pension contributions.
But Mr. Fisher said the Treasury believed that negative market forces had "exposed underlying weaknesses in the system" -- fundamental problems that "must be corrected if that system is to remain viable."
His proposals were accompanied by new evidence of weakness from the federal agency that insures pensions. The director of that agency, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, testified that in the last six months, the agency's deficit has grown by $1.8 billion, to $5.4 billion -- an enormous $13.1 billion slide from the $7.7 billion surplus the agency showed at the end of its 2001 fiscal year.
"Pension claims for 2002 alone were greater than the total claims for all previous years combined," said Steven A. Kandarian, the director of the agency, which was formed in 1974. He attributed the sharp increase in claims to the bankruptcies of big companies -- like LTV, Trans World Airlines and Polaroid -- with badly underfunded pension plans.
Mr. Kandarian said the agency was also now monitoring a number of underfunded pension plans that might conceivably default because of the financial weakness of the companies that sponsor them. He expressed frustration that a law enacted by Congress in 1994 barred him from naming the companies sponsoring these plans.
"The airline and automotive sectors represent our biggest exposure," he said, adding that most of the pension plans in the steel sector have already defaulted.
Mr. Kandarian said that the pension shortfall of the airlines totaled $26 billion and that of the automotive sector -- consisting of the auto makers, parts suppliers and tire and rubber companies -- "exceeds $60 billion." 
The pension agency requires all companies that sponsor pensions to pay insurance premiums against failure, and Mr. Kandarian warned that the agency's finances would be overwhelmed if corporate plans continue to default at the current rate.
"At current premium levels, it would take about 12 years of premiums to cover just the claims from 2002," he said. The agency is examining its premium structure to determine whether an increase is necessary, he added.
Mr. Fisher said a more accurate measurement technique would do much to remedy these problems. The new method he is recommending would take into account the age of each pension plan's participants, something the current technique does not do. 
For pension purposes, companies with a young work force would have a longer time horizon than companies with older workers and large numbers of retirees.
Companies with older workers will need more cash sooner, suggesting they should be financing their pensions more fully and putting the money in more short-term investments. But the current measurement techniques shed little light on these points.
At issue in these discussions is the discount rate that companies use to measure the value, in today's dollars, of their future obligations to retirees. This discount rate is supposed to reflect the rate at which a pension fund's assets can be expected to grow before its beneficiaries retire. In general, companies prefer to use a higher discount rate because it supposes that their pension assets will grow quickly, making their obligations look smaller.
Since 1987, companies have used a discount rate tied to the 30-year Treasury bond. But that rate has been challenged since November 2001, when the government stopped issuing the 30-year bond.
As 30-year bonds have grown scarcer, their price has gone up, which in turn has driven their yield down. This chain of events has caused the discount rate to magnify the size of corporate pension obligations -- artificially, some business groups say. 
To get their pension numbers back under control, business groups like the Erisa Industry Committee have been urging Congress to adopt an increase in the discount rate. A bill recently introduced in the House would do that, changing from the 30-year Treasury rate to a rate based on high-quality corporate bonds.
The business organizations responded to yesterday's testimony by reiterating their support for the House bill, which is sponsored by Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican, and Benjamin L. Cardin, a Maryland Democrat.
Mr. Fisher agreed in part with the business community's assessment, telling the select revenue measures subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee that using a corporate bond rate "could improve the accuracy of measuring pension liabilities."
But instead of using a single discount rate, as companies now do, he wants each company to use a blend of corporate bond rates of various durations, which would be matched to the maturity of each company's workers. 
In addition, Mr. Fisher said he questioned the validity of the "smoothing" techniques now used to reduce the volatility in calculations. He said this smoothing appeared to blur the condition of pension funds to an unacceptable degree.
He said that for some companies, these changes would create new funding obligations, and said that he favored some form of "transition relief" in addition to the two-year extension of the current rules.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter R. Fisher, right, is the Treasury's under secretary for domestic finance. Steven A. Kandarian, below, is the director of the government's Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. (Alex Wong/Getty Images) (Bloomberg News) Chart: "Cause for Concern"The gap between what companies have promised to pay in pensions and the funds they have set aside has risen sharply in the last three years. Two sectors, airlines and the automotive industry, account for the largest shares. Auto and auto parts: $60 bil.Airlines: $26Other: $214 (Sources: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.; Pension Insurance Data Book 2001; independent est.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (91%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EVIDENCE (74%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; DEFAULTING 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; ERISA INDUSTRY COMMITTEE; PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FISHER, PETER R (UNDER SEC); UGORETZ, MARK J; KANDARIAN, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



9 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: BLOCKS; 
The Out-of-Towner Who's Reshaping Downtown

BYLINE:  By David W. Dunlap 

 BODY:
LOST amid all the talk about Daniel Libeskind's vision for the World Trade Center site has been the important role played by the head of the City Planning Commission.
 The Philadelphia City Planning Commission. 
 That would be Gary A. Hack, who is also dean of the Graduate School of Fine Arts at the University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Hack, 61, is the urban planning consultant on Mr. Libeskind's team. 
Though his office is in Meyerson Hall, a Brutalist brick-and-concrete box at the verdant heart of Penn's campus, Mr. Hack is no stranger to Manhattan, having worked on the West Side Highway and Battery Park City. His wife, Lynne B. Sagalyn, directs the real estate program at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business.
"In the most quiet way, this guy has had more to do with the West Side of Manhattan, from 34th Street to the Battery, than almost anyone else," said Meyer S. Frucher, chairman and chief executive of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, who was president of the Battery Park City Authority in the 1980's.
Mr. Hack certainly knows enough about the politics of development in New York to understand that the planning process has just begun. "An awful lot of design occurs through implementation," he said.
Important as flexibility is, Mr. Hack said, there must also be stability and consistency in the administration of the project. "You can't revisit this scheme every day of the week," he said. "That will get you nowhere."
Conflict -- or at least a difference in perspective -- is already evident in the proposed layout of shopping areas. Westfield America, which operated the trade center concourse and holds the retail development rights, objects to the Libeskind proposal because it would disperse rather than concentrate stores.
"We haven't shown a very large commercial complex, an urban mall, because that's not appropriate at this site," Mr. Hack said. "The reason to do an urban mall is to attract people. You've already got people here."
Mr. Hack envisions the reclaimed intersection of Fulton and Greenwich Streets, which was erased by the trade center superblock, as the crossroads of the project. "It's a street intersection, not a big plaza, a piece of the city where things come together," he said.
His preference as a planner -- "if money is not the issue" -- would be to depress West Street between Liberty and Vesey Streets, linking the trade center site almost seamlessly with Battery Park City. But he acknowledged the considerable opposition to this approach on the grounds of cost and disruption.
Asked about the effect of the recent resignation of Alexander Garvin as planning director for the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, Mr. Hack said simply, "I don't know."
"He had both a passion for the quality of design and also knew a lot about New York City," Mr. Hack said. "I don't think we'd be where we are today without him."
That is literally true, since it was Mr. Garvin who approached Mr. Libeskind last year, after which Mr. Libeskind enlisted Mr. Hack. "As soon as Daniel was invited to participate in the competition, that was the first phone call he made," said Nina Libeskind, the architect's wife and business partner.
THE Libeskinds said they valued Mr. Hack's familiarity with the West Side and with technical issues. As outsiders from Berlin in an intensely who-knows-whom business, they also relied on his acquaintance with local officials.
They have known Mr. Hack since 1999, when he invited Mr. Libeskind to Penn as the Paul Philippe Cret professor of architecture. Mr. Hack has been the dean of the fine arts school since 1996.
Canadian by birth, and a dual citizen today, Mr. Hack received a bachelor's degree in architecture from the University of Manitoba, master's degrees in architecture and urban planning from the University of Illinois and a Ph.D. in urban studies and planning from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He oversaw M.I.T.'s urban studies and planning department from 1982 to 1986. For the next 10 years, he was a principal in Carr, Lynch, Hack & Sandell in Cambridge, Mass., which redesigned the West Side Highway in Manhattan as a six-lane urban boulevard and later designed the Nelson A. Rockefeller Park at the north end of Battery Park City.
While on the highway project, Mr. Hack had an office in the south tower of the trade center. "You walked across a ring road as if this were a suburban mall," he recalled, "and then a plaza that was almost impossible to walk on because of the winds. It was always cut off from the city."
In that sense, the trade center was analogous to the Prudential Center in Boston, which Carr, Lynch, Hack & Sandell redesigned. Twelve years ago, in words that foreshadowed his current assignment, Mr. Hack said, "The complex is to be rewoven into the fabric of the existing neighborhoods."
Today, he thinks about the fabric of Lower Manhattan. "It would be wonderful," Mr. Hack said, "if you arrived at the World Trade Center site and didn't quite know where it began and the city ended."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary A. Hack of Philadelphia is the urban planning consultant for the design of ground zero. (Timothy M. Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); POLITICS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); RETAILERS (63%); TERRORISM (59%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

PERSON: HACK, GARY A; DUNLAP, DAVID W; LIBESKIND, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



10 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Market forces press state colleges to raise tuition and give financial aid; politics presses to keep tuition low.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and a co-editor of The Journal of the European Economic Association.E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
LAST week the trustees of Miami University in Ohio, the state's highly ranked public university, thought they had found a novel solution to the university's financial predicament. They voted unanimously to raise the tuition of in-state residents to the level charged to out-of-state residents and to give Ohio residents scholarships equaling or exceeding the per-student subsidy Miami receives from the state. 
 Only hours later, Jeff Jacobson, a state senator from Butler Township, vowed to block the plan. The new policy "threatens the principle of affordability that lies at the heart of our conception of a public university," he contended, according to an article in The Columbus Dispatch. His proposal would prevent public universities from charging Ohioans more than 10 percent above the tuition charged to in-state residents at the state's highest-priced public university in the preceding year. 
 Orest Holubec, a spokesman for Gov. Bob Taft, said the governor was aware of the university's proposal, but would continue to push for a cap of 6 percent next year on in-state tuition growth for all public universities except Ohio State, whose tuition growth he would cap at 9 percent. 
The brouhaha illustrates the political and economic forces shaping much of higher education. With projected budget deficits totaling $100 billion in coming months, many state legislatures have slashed funds for higher education, and half the states are considering further cuts next year. The longer-term trend is also for relatively less public support: the share of public colleges' revenues from state subsidies has declined over the last two decades. Because two-thirds of college students attend public institutions, dwindling subsidies have far-reaching consequences. 
The reduction in subsidies, combined with declining endowments in recent years, have forced many colleges to freeze or cut faculty salaries, shed employees, trim library hours and reduce courses; some are admitting fewer students. 
State colleges, which typically charge much less than private colleges, have moved to increase tuition and fees. Last year, tuition at public four-year colleges jumped 9.6 percent, compared with 5.8 percent at private colleges, according to the College Board. 
But tuition is politically sensitive. State legislators have tried to lean against the wind, holding down tuition for in-state students while market forces push it up. 
In Virginia, the General Assembly froze and then cut tuition in the 1990's. Last fall the faculty assembly of the University of Virginia voted to encourage the university to raise sharply the $4,569 tuition charged to in-state residents. Even the student council endorsed some increase, sensing that the financing crisis was jeopardizing the quality of education. The General Assembly, however, capped tuition increases at 9 percent and restricted the number of nonresident students. 
Legislators realized long ago that out-of-state residents -- who, after all, vote in other states -- were an easy mark. The average tuition for nonresidents attending state colleges is $10,428 this year, more than two and a half times the $4,081 charged for in-state residents. 
The opportunity to increase revenue by raising out-of-state tuition is limited, however, as many flagship colleges already charge out-of-state students close to what the market will bear. At the University of Virginia, for example, nonresident tuition exceeds $20,000 a year. 
So the feasible alternatives are to admit more out-of-state residents or raise in-state tuition -- or cut instructional resources. 
Economists have great affinity for proposals like Miami's because market prices are the starting point and the public subsidy is made transparent. Also, as David W. Breneman, dean of the Curry School at the University of Virginia, recently emphasized in The Chronicle of Higher Education, additional scholarship funds in Miami's plan would be aimed at students in the most financial need or those with outstanding merit. Thus, raising tuition does not have to threaten the affordability of college to in-state students from middle- and low-income families. 
Furthermore, a new study by the economists Michelle J. White and Jeffrey A. Groen suggests that discouraging out-of-state enrollment runs against a state's long-term interests. They find that attendance by in-state and out-of-state students at a public college in a particular state increases the chances that they will live in that state 20 years later by about the same amount, among students who apply to colleges in the same set of states.
They also find that state universities use lower standards to admit in-state applicants -- a form of geo-affirmative action. Because it turns out that out-of-state students have higher earnings after graduation, and thus pay higher taxes, there is a cost to setting a higher threshold for nonresidents. 
Tuition at private colleges is rising faster than inflation because higher education requires many high-skilled workers, laboratory research is increasingly expensive, and the demand for education is growing. Pressures will continue for flagship state universities to price tuition like elite private colleges, which tend to charge high, market-driven tuition but provide grants and loans to low-income students. 
The students who would pay more under a high-tuition/high-aid policy are from well-off families. In return, they would get a higher-quality education with more diverse classmates. And, most important, public subsidies would be better aimed at those for whom they would make the most difference.
If state legislatures are unwilling to give sufficient funds to flagship universities to provide a first-rate education at low tuition rates, and if they are unwilling to permit universities to raise tuition and fees for high-income students, Sarah E. Turner, an economist at the University of Virginia, asks, "What are state schools supposed to do?" 
Unless legislators have the courage to allow closer-to-market-level tuition combined with generous scholarships and loans for those in need, the quality of higher education at flagship state universities is bound to suffer. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A demonstration this week outside the Massachusetts Statehouse called for better state financing for higher education. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (97%); TUITION FEES (94%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); TRENDS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (62%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; FINANCES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US); RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS 

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



11 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Airborne Reports a Loss 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, April 30 

 BODY:
Airborne Inc., the shipping company, had a first-quarter loss of $5.6 million as costs rose and it handled fewer air shipments. 
 The net loss per share of 12 cents compared with net income of $5.3 million, or 11 cents a share, in the 2002 period. 
Sales rose 4.3 percent to $824.9 million from $790.6 million. 
 Total costs rose 6.7 percent, as Airborne paid additional legal and professional fees for the planned $1.05 billion sale of its ground delivery business and had higher expenses for fuel, benefits and winter storms. The added costs reduced the bottom line by $20.3 million, or 25 cents a share. 
Airborne said that its air shipments in the United States declined 8 percent because of the sluggish economy, storms and switching by customers to ground deliveries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: AIRBORNE INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: AIRBORNE INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (93%) SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



12 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Revised View of Gambling: Bane Is Now Boon 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

 BODY:
Washington State is debating whether to expand its once-a-day keno drawing to once every four minutes. The governor of Delaware wants additional slot machines at racetracks.
 Nebraska is considering a constitutional amendment to create eight state-run casinos, and in California, the governor is trying to wrest a bigger share of Indian tribes' gambling profits. 
 Facing daunting deficits and with little appetite to raise taxes, a growing number of states are going where the money is to help balance their budgets. In recent months, more than half the states have tried tapping into the thriving $50 billion gambling industry through measures to expand state lotteries, license new casinos and negotiate higher payments from Indian casinos. 
The drive is a change from the situation a few years ago, when moral concerns over gambling and qualms about addiction made states careful about expanding opportunities to roll dice and yank slot-machine handles.
Those concerns continue to linger. But they are being shoved aside as states see bigger lotteries and more casinos as a way to let them raise teachers' salaries, preserve health-care programs and close billions of dollars in budget shortfalls.
"The states have teased around with this before," Donald E. McGhie, an industry consultant in Reno, Nev., said. "But they have never been as serious as now because they have never had the problems they have now. Before, states taxed gambling to discourage it. Now, they're taxing gambling to make money on it."
Gambling revenues have become such a popular alternative to raising taxes that politicians run on proposals to expand gambling. I. Nelson Rose, a professor at the Whittier Law School in California who is an expert in gambling law, said that last November, "for the first time, major candidates ran on a platform of bringing in gambling as a way to help the state solve problems."
At least three, Professor Rose said, won races for governor: Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. in Maryland and Mitt Romney in Massachusetts, both Republicans, and Kathleen Sebelius in Kansas, a Democrat.
Counterveiling forces like the National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling continue to oppose gambling. Beyond such groups, the industry is balking at expansion that could eat into the profits of current operations, and tribes are not enthusiastic about sharing more of their profits. 
Also, some state officials argue that gambling causes more problems than it solves. 
"As a business, gaming has a tendency to absorb disposable income, especially from the poor," said Kumar P. Barve, a Gaithersburg Democrat who is majority leader of the House of Delegates in Maryland, where the House has voted to study Mr. Ehrlich's proposal for slot machines at tracks.
In New Hampshire, a bill to create a video lottery is alive in the legislature but not likely to survive the veto of Gov. Craig Benson, a first-term Republican who opposes gambling.
Other politicians have contented themselves with symbolic stands. Colorado just enacted a law that extends the hours and days of offtrack betting at greyhound tracks, a change expected to raise a modest $1.4 million to restore a program for home nursing care.
Gov. Bill Owens, a second-term Republican, let it become law without his signature, to reflect his "strong opposition to gambling," said his spokesman, Dan Hopkins. But with a projected deficit of $869 million for 2004 and cuts that have curtailed many programs, Mr. Owens did not veto the measure.
Legalized gambling in the United States grew out of the Depression, when casinos went up in Nevada as a way to spur economic development. In 1963, New Hampshire created the first state lottery. In 1988, the Supreme Court gave Indians the right to run casinos. In 1991, Iowa became the first Mississippi River state to license riverboat gambling. Now, casinos operate in 27 states. Just Hawaii, Tennessee and Utah have no form of gambling, although Tennessee is contemplating a state lottery. 
New proposals are proliferating, with even cities getting into the act. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York has made clear that he has little enthusiasm for gambling, but he also left the door open to slot machines as a way of helping the city's budget problems.
In Washington, where the projected gap is $2.6 billion, keno has been a political Ping-Pong ball. Lawmakers from both parties are trying hard to kill a proposal to hold a drawing every four minutes to bring in $30 million or more over the first two years. After the Legislature failed to pass a budget by the April 27 deadline, forcing a special session starting May 12, Gov. Gary Locke, a Democrat, expressed strong support for the measure, giving it a chance to survive.
"The governor always favored the keno measure," Mr. Locke's spokesman, Roger Nyhus, said. "He believes the expansion is essential for the state's health-care programs and education."
A similar change went into effect in March in Massachusetts, where the daily keno drawings increased to 15 times an hour from 12, an increase predicted to raise an additional $24 million a year. In Delaware, Gov. Ruth Ann Minner, a Democrat, has proposed adding casino-style slot machines at the three tracks in her state and expanding their hours to help close a $300 million gap.
In Illinois, as, perhaps, the most ambitious proposal anywhere, Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich, a Democrat, suggested in April that the state might take over its nine private casinos and hire a management company to run them as a way to help reduce a $5 billion deficit.
Other states are trying to take larger shares of Indian gambling revenues. In California, Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, seeks a tenfold increase, to $1.5 billion, in annual revenues collected from the Indian casinos. In late April in Wisconsin, Gov. James E. Doyle, a Democrat, signed new compacts with six of the 11 tribes in the state. The accords will let the tribes expand hours and add games. The tribes will pay the state nearly $200 million over the next two years, compared with $24 million last year.
Enough ideas are under legislative scrutiny that industry officials are starting to rebel, fearing that so much competition will mean that there will not be enough profits to go around. 
"They're squeezing the golden goose by its neck," the executive director of the American Gaming Association, Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr., said. "That is going to result in fewer eggs or a dead goose."
Indian tribes are also fighting.
"It's very disappointing to us," said J. Kurt Luger, executive director of the Great Plains Indian Gaming Association, a group that represents tribes in seven Central states. "After all these years when Indians were the stepchild of the welfare system and after all the boondoggles for us to create economic activity in rural, isolated areas, it's incredible that states now see us as a success story and part of the piggy bank for all their unmet needs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Venus Brown, a manager at the Silver Dollar Casino in SeaTac, Wash., sells lottery, keno and other games. (Karie Hamilton for The New York Times) Chart: "Money Lost on Gambling"The amount of money players lost gambling in each state in 2001. Does not include Indian casinos, where players lost an additional $12.7 billion. Graph tracks dollars lost, in billions, in the United States. (Source: Christiansen Capital Advisers) Map of United States highlighting dollars lost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); GAMING (91%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); VETO (78%); LOTTERIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); ETHICS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%) GAMBLING; STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



13 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: ASIAN ARENA; 
North Korea Prompts U.S. To Investigate Nuclear Boast

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER with HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30 

 BODY:
White House officials have ordered the nation's intelligence agencies to conduct a review of whether North Korea could produce bomb-grade plutonium -- as it says it has done -- without detection by the United States, according to senior administration officials.
 The order to the Central Intelligence Agency and other agencies that have long monitored North Korea's nuclear program was prompted by the blunt and direct nature of the North's declaration last week, during negotiations in Beijing, that it was already a nuclear power. It said it had completedreprocessing of 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods that could provide enough plutonium for four to six additional weapons. 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell described the North Korean assertion in testimony today to a Senate subcommittee, saying, "The North Koreans, in very typical bellicose fashion, accused us of everything imaginable and then said, 'We reprocessed all the fuel rods that were in storage.' " 
So far the United States has not been able to verify North Korea's claim to have produced weapons-grade plutonium.
"We can't establish that as a matter of fact with our intelligence community, but they said they did it," Mr. Powell said. 
Until last week, North Korea had never boasted about its nuclear weapons capability, insisting it was only interested in producing electric power from nuclear reactors. The change in tactics, the administration's Korea experts believe, may be an effort to raise the price of dismantling its program, if President Bush reversed himself and was willing to strike a deal to disarm the country. 
"We think they are bluffing," a senior administration official said. "But we felt the necessity to go back and review every possibility, in the off chance that we missed something."
The C.I.A. has long believed that North Korea may have two nuclear weapons developed in the late 1980's or early 1990's, before a 1994 nuclear freeze accord was signed with President Bill Clinton. But the agency is worried about reprocessing, because North Korea could sell plutonium on the open market -- a threat Mr. Powell said today that the North Koreans made explicit last week, saying their decision "depends on the American reaction."
The chemical process of reprocessing spent fuel into plutonium lets off a distinct signature -- a form of krypton -- that can be detected by sensors used by American intelligence agencies for decades, back to the days of the cold war. So far there has been no evidence of that gas, officials say, or other evidence that reprocessing has begun.
But some senior administration officials have long been concerned that the intelligence agencies have missed either a hidden reprocessing plant or one that operates at such a low level that it would not emit a detectable signature. 
"I've never been satisfied that we knew everything we should about the nature of their program," one senior administration official said.
Others noted that the White House and the intelligence agencies jointly concluded that all past suspicions of North Korean nuclear activity -- including unconfirmed reports that the North imported plutonium from Russia or a former Soviet republic in the 1990's -- should now be revisited. 
Five years ago the C.I.A. thought it had identified a huge underground plant that could be used for reprocessing. When American officials finally gained access, however, the cave turned out to be empty.
For several years the C.I.A. also suspected, but could not prove, that North Korea had a clandestine program to build a bomb using another process, involving highly enriched uranium. That process does not give off a distinctive signature. The evidence did not come until a year ago, however, and when the North was confronted with it in October, the current crisis began. North Korean officials did not refer to that program directly in the Beijing talks.
The findings of the new intelligence review could affect a behind-the-scenes debate now underway within the administration over whether to continue talking to the North Korean government, or to move sometime in the next few weeks or months toward a kind of economic embargo not seen since the Cuban missile crisis.
North Korea has warned that economic penalties would be regarded as an act of war, and so far South Korea and China have argued that they would be a mistake, at a moment when North Korea appears willing to at least discuss giving up its nuclear ambitions.
But inside the administration, a growing number of senior officials believe that the North Koreans miscalculated when they declared in Beijing last week that they are already a nuclear power. The declaration, they argue, pushed China more toward the American position that the North Korean government of Kim Jong Il must not be allowed to possess nuclear weapons.
"We're in no hurry" to decide on sanctions, said one senior administration official, noting that South Korea's new president, Roh Moo Hyun, and Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, will both be in Washington in coming weeks.
In comments in Seoul today, Mr. Roh was openly skeptical of the North Korean claims, telling his staff that North Korea's admission that it possesses nuclear weapons amounted to "game tactics in North Korea-U.S. negotiations."
The Roh administration, which took office in February, has tried to establish its bona fides with Washington after a difficult start to the relationship, as it was sometimes viewed as cool toward the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After talks in London yesterday with a North Korean diplomat, British officials said North Korea stated that it would abandon its nuclear weapons program in exchange for guarantees of its security. Meanwhile, human rights activists protested yesterday at the new North Korean Embassy in London, above. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); NUCLEAR WASTE (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); COLD WAR (77%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); TERRORISM (73%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%); KIM JONG IL (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; FRENCH, HOWARD W; KIM JONG IL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



14 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Cellphones Ring Out With the Help of a Steeple 

BYLINE:  By DAVID L. MARGULIUS 

 BODY:
IN June 1973, lightning struck the steeple of the United Methodist Church in the small coastal town of Ipswich, Mass. The steeple, a prominent landmark since 1860 that appears on the town's seal, was badly damaged and had to be removed. The church lacked the money for a replacement, estimated to cost more than $100,000. 
 But the church's luck changed in 1996, with the proposal of an unusual way to pay for a new steeple. Bell Atlantic (now part of Verizon) was searching for a site for a cellular phone transmission tower in Ipswich but had been blocked from building one by the town zoning board. 
 "Being a scenic coastal community, they said no way," said Bob Ebersole, the pastor of United Methodist.
So the company made a deal with the church, agreeing to rebuild the historic steeple and pay a monthly fee in exchange for permission to put its antennas inside. 
"We were interested in getting a steeple, and the phone company was interested in getting business," Pastor Ebersole said. "The town skyline now looks like it did." 
Across the country, but particularly on the densely populated coasts, cellular companies are under pressure to find creative ways to improve call coverage despite community opposition to unsightly free-standing transmission towers. Increasingly, they are hiding transmission equipment inside and alongside structures like flagpoles, smokestacks, grain silos and water towers.
Church steeples and crosses can be an ideal spot for a tower, especially in small towns that lack other tall structures, said Jim Fryer, an analyst in Lansdowne, Pa., who follows the cellular tower business. 
"When churches were originally built, they wanted them to be the tallest structure in the area -- the closest to heaven, or so people could hear the bells," Mr. Fryer said. 
Moreover, the good will a company can gain from its association with a church might be helpful in its dealings with a zoning board, he said.
Of an estimated 100,000 cellular towers in the United States, Mr. Fryer said, fewer than 1 percent are found in steeples or crosses. Churches that allow cellular antennas to be installed -- often by more than one carrier -- reap an average of $1,000 to $3,000 a month in fees, in addition to the cost of having the steeple rebuilt.
The size of the monthly payment is "based upon the negotiating skills of the pastor or priest there, and how desirable that location is to the carrier," said Patrick Deloney, a vice president with Engineered Endeavors, a tower construction company that has completed over 100 steeple projects. 
In some areas, a carrier might simply want to fill a small coverage gap; in another, it might pursue a high-elevation site to provide coverage for many miles, according to Jim Hormann, director of implementation for AT&T Wireless in the Northeast.
Often, a steeple must be rebuilt with materials like fiberglass or certain woods that allow radio-frequency signals to pass through, Mr. Hormann said. Space also must be found for transmission and switching equipment -- usually in the basement, but in the case of one New England church, in a box behind the pulpit. 
Finally, a way must be found to keep a steeple's traditional inhabitants, bats and pigeons, away from the equipment, Mr. Hormann said.
Dan Cline, director of operations for the Roman Catholic Cathedral of Mary Our Queen, said that over all, sharing space with cellular antennas had been "a good experience." His cathedral sits high on a hill on the north side of Baltimore and houses antenna arrays from Sprint, VoiceStream and AT&T Wireless in one of its two towers. Mr. Cline said installers "had to pass over one of the biggest organ installations on the East Coast," and avoid disruptions to the cathedral's three daily Masses while they positioned the antennas.
The project had to gain the approval of the parish council as well as 7,000 parishioners, some of whom had concerns about radiation, Mr. Cline said. 
At the church in Ipswich, there was similar concern. It was resolved after the phone company hired a consultant from M.I.T. "to explain the energy-generating microwaves to us and help us to understand that we wouldn't glow on Sunday morning," Pastor Ebersole said.
Although work to widen the cellular carriers' networks has been slowed by the economic downturn, Mr. Fryer, the Pennsylvania analyst, predicted that the number of cell towers would triple to 300,000 over the next five years with the arrival of the advanced wireless services known as 2.5G and 3G. Those services will use higher frequencies to transmit larger amounts of data over shorter distances, requiring more antenna sites, he said. Transmission equipment is expected to become smaller and less costly, making some church steeple installations more practical.
As more information moves across the cellular network, might churches become concerned about the kind of information passing through their steeples?
"It's electronicsignals, let's get real," said Mr. Cline in Baltimore. "It's just data."
In Ipswich, Pastor Ebersole agreed: "We don't require a statement of faith from the person that empties our Dumpster."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 5, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A credit in Circuits on Thursday for a picture of the United Methodist Church in Ipswich, Mass. -- which financed a new steeple by accommodating a cellphone tower inside -- misspelled the photographer's given name. She is Jodi Hilton, not Jody.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HIDDEN WITHIN -- Cellular antennas like the one visible at lower right have been installed in a tower of the Roman Catholic Cathedral of Mary Our Queen in Baltimore, left, and in the steeple of the United Methodist Church in Ipswich, Mass., top right. (Top right, Jody Hilton for The New York Times; left and bottom right, Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ZONING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; ANTENNAS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (85%); AT&T INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED METHODIST CHURCH (IPSWICH, MASS); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: MARGULIUS, DAVID L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



15 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE BUDGET: LEGISLATORS; 
Both Houses Defy Pataki, Passing Their Own Budget

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 30 

 BODY:
The State Legislature continued passing a budget today that would raise income taxes for the wealthiest New Yorkers, expand gambling in the state and collect sales taxes on Indian reservations, all part of its plan to restore spending on core services.
 The Legislature's plan to restore $1.9 billion worth of the cuts to education and Medicaid that Gov. George E. Pataki had proposed, would add about $2 billion in new state spending, taking the total budget higher than the $90.8 billion the governor wanted, but keeping it below the rate of inflation. 
 If the plan is complete by Friday, as legislators have promised, and if it survives a veto that Mr. Pataki has threatened, it will affect New Yorkers in countless ways. 
Shoppers would pay more for purchases because the plan would raise the state sales tax to 4.25 percent from 4 percent, at least for two years, when the plan calls for it to be phased out. Legislative leaders estimate that the tax increase would generate approximately $463 million in the first year and $564 million in the second.
Those at the high end of the income scale, about 5 percent of New York's population, would pay more income tax, legislative officials said, adding that 14 percent of all those affected live out of state. They said they expected hundreds of millions of dollars in annual new revenue to flow into the state treasury from various temporary tax surcharges on the wealthiest residents.
If legislators are correct, homeowners will escape a rise in their property taxes, something that many had feared would occur if the Pataki budget plan were enacted and local aid sharply cut.
And schools and health care providers would be spared drastic cuts, with programs like prekindergarten and small class size in the lower grades preserved.
Mr. Pataki, a Republican, said again today, however, that the Legislature's plan was more harmful, in the long run, to the economy -- and reiterated his promise that there would be political repercussions when all 212 of the Assembly and Senate members come up for re-election next year.
"This budget is one that as a matter of principle, I cannot support," the governor said at a morning event in which he appeared confident and even ebullient in the face of the legislative rebellion. "It is one that raises taxes by billions of dollars on every working family in every corner of the state."
But the state's top legislative leaders, Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader in the State Senate, and Sheldon Silver, the Democratic leader of the State Assembly, stood firm, and said they were making the decision not to foist onto local residents the property tax rises they believe the governor's cuts would have brought.
The Legislature continued, with machinelike efficiency, to pass the bills needed to make a budget, many by formidable margins. Both houses adopted a spending plan for education, higher education, labor and family assistance. That bill restored $1.1 billion worth of Mr. Pataki's proposed $1.4 billion in cuts in local aid to school districts, including $361 million for New York City, where all prekindergarten and class size cuts have been restored.
The average overall cut to individual school districts has been reduced to about 2.6 percent per district, from the roughly 8.6 percent under the governor's plan, those familiar with the legislation said.
In the health care arena, the Legislature, through a combination of restorations and adjustments to Mr. Pataki's proposed $1.4 billion worth of cuts to health services, including Medicaid, would provide $781.8 million for New York's patients and providers.
"We've ensured that the providers from hospitals, nursing homes and home health care will be able to deliver a reasonable health care system to New Yorkers," said Senator Kemp Hannon, a Republican from Nassau County, the chairman of the Senate's Committee on Health.
Over all, the Legislature cut $90 million in spending from the governor's budget. It eliminated about $250 million worth of the $1.4 billion in new taxes and fees the governor proposed. It plans to borrow $4.2 billion against tobacco settlement funds.
The revenue bill to pay for the restorations, and to cover what Mr. Pataki projected would be a $2.9 billion gap next year, was placed on the legislators' desks late Tuesday. It can come to a vote on Friday, under legislative rules.
Because local sales taxes are added to the state's tax, the rates around the state vary. With the state increase to 4.25 percent, the amount charged to shoppers in New York City would rise to 8.5 percent from 8.25 percent, the officials said, not counting a potential additional .25 percentage point increase in the city. On Long Island, the new rate would be 8.75 percent.
The income tax surcharge varies with income. For married couples who file jointly and earn more than $150,000 in net taxable income (meaning they would earn nearly $200,000 in gross income), the tax rate would go to 7.5 percent from its current 6.85 percent, then decline in each of the subsequent three years to 7.37 percent, 7.25 percent and then back to 6.85 percent, its current level.
In addition, households that earn more than $500,000 will pay .2 percent, or a 7.7 percent total increase, on income above that $500,000 level.
Income taxes would also rise for single people earning $100,000 a year in taxable income, and for heads of household who earn $125,000 in taxable income, with the scale of rates the same as for families.
In dollars, a household that earns about $165,000 in gross adjustable income, with a taxable income of $150,000, would see a tax bill increase of about $1,000, but about 25 percent of that would be returnable as a federal tax deduction, according to a legislative budget analyst.
Also included in the revenue bill is a plan to place video lottery terminals in thoroughbred and harness horse racing tracks in the state, allowing the tracks to keep more of the profits; a plan to enforce the collection of taxes on cigarettes and fuel sold on Indian reservations; and a plan to close three corporate loopholes.
The legislators will go along with a proposal by the governor to eliminate the state sales tax exemption on clothing under $110 for one year, but will lift the tax the next year.
Adopting an idea pushed by Mr. Bruno, the Legislature would allow the state to collect sales tax for sales over the Internet, a program that would bring in $100 million next year and up to $1 billion in the third year. It needs Congressional approval and action by the state's Tax Department as well.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, center, took time out yesterday to confer with two high-level legislators: John R. Kuhl Jr., left, the assistant majority leader, and Dean G. Skelos, the deputy majority leader. (James Estrin/The New York Times) Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: Varying Sales Tax"New York State has a base sales tax of 4 percent, but the addition of county and city sales taxes means the rate varies from place to place. Here are the current rates for the metropolitan area, selected upstate counties, and neighboring states. NEW YORK CITY (five counties): 8 1/4%NASSAU and SUFFOLK: 8 1/2WESTCHESTER: 6 3/4Except cities of: Mount Vernon: 8 1/4New Rochelle: 8 1/4White Plains: 7 3/4Yonkers: 8 1/4ALBANY: 8ERIE (incl. Buffalo): 8MONROE (incl. Rochester): 8ONONDAGA (incl. Syracuse): 7ORANGE: 7 1/4ROCKLAND: 7 7/8ALL OF CONNECTICUT: 6ALL OF NEW JERSEY*: 6 *Except special enterprise zones where the tax is 3 percent.(Source: New York State Department of Taxation and Finance) Chart: "ADDING IT UP: Legislatures Balanced-Budget Plan"After passing spending bills that undid major budget cuts proposed by Governor Pataki, the State Legislature has explained how it proposed to pay for its extra spending. Bills introduced yesterday call for a variety of measures, including tax rate changes, fees and efficiency measures. PROPOSED CHANGE Income tax increasesNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2004 -- $1.68 billionNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2005 -- $1.26 billion State sales tax of 4.25% instead of 4%NEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2004 -- 463 millionNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2005 -- 564 million Closing three corporate tax loopholesNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2004 -- 248 millionNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2005 -- 251 million Taxing fuel and cigarettes on Indian reservationsNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2004 -- 164 millionNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2005 -- 330 million Revenue from video lottery machines at race tracksNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2004 -- 150 millionNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2005 -- 360 million Elimination of tax exemption on clothing*NEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2004 -- 104 millionNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2005 -- 104 million Other measuresNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2004 -- 402 millionNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2005 -- 466 million Total added revenueNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2004 -- 3.21 billionNEW REVENUES: FISCAL 2005 -- 3.34 billion *Includes two weeks of no taxes on clothing sales over $500, instead of the current four.(Source: State Legislature)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TAX INCREASES (92%); SALES TAX (91%); MEDICAID (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); VETO (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GAMING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INFLATION (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); HEALTH CARE (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; SALES TAX; PROPERTY TAXES; GAMBLING; CASINOS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID 

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN R KUHL JR (58%) BAKER, AL; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



16 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Depression Rates Surveyed 

BYLINE:  By Richard Perez-Pena (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Hispanic and poor New Yorkers are more likely than other residents to suffer from "significant emotional distress," according to a survey released yesterday. In the survey of 10,000 residents by the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, 6.4 percent of residents over all reported such distress, with symptoms like depression and anxiety. 
Among those with significant distress, 54 percent said they were also in poor or only fair physical health; among other New Yorkers, 17 percent said their health was poor or fair. Hispanics had a higher rate of emotional distress than other ethnic groups, at 11.9 percent, or nearly double the overall rate. Emotional problems were also more common among the unemployed and people with household incomes under $25,000. Richard Perez-Pena (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); MENTAL HEALTH (88%); MENTAL ILLNESS (87%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); ETHNICITY (52%) MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; DEPRESSION (MENTAL); ANXIETY 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



17 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Martha Stewart Living Says Revenue Fell 14% in the Quarter 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia said yesterday that it had posted a loss in the first quarter as government investigations into a stock sale by Ms. Stewart, its chairman and chief executive, cast a shadow across its business.
 With no sign that the investigations will be resolved soon, the company also warned yesterday that it expected to lose more money in the second quarter. Revenue is forecast to decline even more steeply as the company's television programs, magazines and product sales continue to struggle. 
 "The one thing we're carrying that no one else is is the long investigation and the negative press stories," the company's president, Sharon Patrick, said in an interview.
Total revenue fell 14.6 percent in the first quarter. Worst hit was publishing, with a 21 percent decline caused by lower ad sales and circulation. Merchandising, which consists mainly of Martha Stewart Everyday products sold at Kmart, dropped 7 percent. Television revenue also declined, by 1.4 percent, with lower ratings and lost airtime from the "CBS Early Show," where Ms. Stewart was a regular until last summer.
She left the show after CBS executives insisted on asking her questions about the investigation into her sale of nearly 4,000 shares of stock in ImClone Systems. The company was formerly run by her friend Samuel D. Waksal, who has since admitted committing securities fraud, perjury and other crimes. He is scheduled to be sentenced in June.
Ms. Stewart, who has not been charged with any crime, has said her sale was "entirely lawful" and took place because she and her stockbroker agreed to sell if the share price fell below $60. No evidence of an agreement has turned up, and the broker's assistant has admitted lying about the reasons for the sale. 
Revenue in the first quarter totaled $58 million, down from $68 million a year ago. At the same time, corporate costs jumped sharply, to $10.2 million from $8 million, mainly for legal fees and insurance to cover officers and directors. For shareholders, that means a loss of 9 cents a share in the quarter, which ended March 31, in contrast to earnings of 8 cents a share for the first quarter of last year.
"It's surprising just how long this negative period has lasted for them," said Laura Richardson, a principal with Adams, Harkness & Hill in Boston, "and how difficult it is to pinpoint when we might get on to the next phase of things for them." 
It is unclear when the investigations, which are being conducted by the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission, will conclude, but they are dragging down Ms. Stewart's company, executives say.
"The economy was difficult in 2001 and in the first part of 2002, and our magazine was doing very well," James Follo, the chief financial officer, said in an interview. "Ad pages were outperforming the market. So clearly there was a dramatic falloff once this investigation came up." 
In a conference call with analysts and investors, Ms. Stewart noted that during a similar call in March, she had described herself as "increasingly hopeful" that her situation would be resolved soon. 
"Obviously, that has not happened," she said yesterday, "and I can make no predictions as to when it will." She added that despite the problems, her company "remains a laboratory for creative thought and a place where ideas are generated into inspiration for the home and for the homemaker." 
Mr. Follo said the company would continue to introduce products and programs. "They may have slowed," he said, "but they haven't stopped." 
The share price, battered after Ms. Stewart's name surfaced in connection with the ImClone insider-trading investigation last summer, fell another 11.3 percent yesterday, to close at $8.68. 
In the current quarter, which ends June 30, the higher corporate costs are expected to continue, while merchandising revenue is expected to fall 30 percent as Kmart closes more stores around the country. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia has a guaranteed minimum payment from Kmart, but the difference between sales in stores and the guarantee will not be paid until early next year, Mr. Follo said, when Kmart's fiscal year ends. 
Neither he nor Ms. Stewart discussed the progress of the investigations in the conference call, although David A. Rocker, an investor who owns about 6 percent of the company, said at one point: "We're all eager to get this behind us." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (70%); SENTENCING (64%) CANCER; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; INSIDER TRADING 

COMPANY: MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (84%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA; IMCLONE SYSTEMS 

TICKER: MSO (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (74%); LAURA RICHARDSON (57%) STEWART, MARTHA; HAYS, CONSTANCE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



18 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Shares Decline Slightly to End a Month of Strong Gains

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks finished fractionally lower in a lackluster session yesterday, as investors weighed weak regional manufacturing data against cautious optimism about the economy from the top central banker.
 Still, the three main stock gauges finished April with their biggest monthly gains since the fourth quarter of 2002. 
 "The market is digesting further the major moves we've had," said Andrew Baker, senior Nasdaq trader for Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles. 
With most first-quarter earnings out, "we have to see where the next few quarters take us," Mr. Baker said.
In testimony before the House of Representatives, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the economy seemed poised for a rebound with the end of the Iraq war, but expressed concern about a lingering caution among businesses.
His remarks before the House Committee on Financial Services gave investors only limited comfort as they studied a closely watched survey showing business in the Midwest contracted for a second month in April. The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago business barometer fell to 47.6, below expectations for a reading of 48.9 and below 48.4 in March.
Tim Heekin, director for trading at Thomas Weisel Partners, said, "People viewed Greenspan's comments as neutral to slightly positive." The Chicago manufacturing data had less of an effect, he added.
The Dow Jones industrial average finished down 22.90 points, or 0.27 percent, at 8,480.09. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.92, or 0.10 percent, to 916.92. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 6.99 points, or 0.48 percent, at 1,464.31.
In April, the Dow climbed 6.1 percent, and the S.& P. 500 added 8.1 percent, their biggest monthly gains since October 2002. The Nasdaq jumped 9.2 percent, its biggest monthly gain since November 2002.
Trading was heavy, with about 1.78 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, and 1.58 billion shares traded on the Nasdaq. Issues advancing outnumbered those declining by 20 to 13 on the Big Board, and by 9 to 7 on the Nasdaq.
After a sharp rally in stocks over the last seven weeks, investors want to see hard evidence that the economy and corporate profits are recovering, analysts said.
Better-than-expected first-quarter earnings have fanned optimism about the corporate profit outlook, propelling the S.& P. 500 index up for the month.
Jitters about corporate credibility resurfaced when Tyco International said it would take about $1.1 billion in after-tax charges in its second quarter after unearthing fresh accounting problems. Nonetheless, Tyco's stock rose 23 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $15.60; it was the most actively traded issue on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Among losing issues, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia sank 11.3 percent after it said its first-quarter loss widened sharply from a year earlier, because of weak advertising at its flagship magazine and insider-trading allegations involving Ms. Stewart. The shares fell $1.11, to $8.68.
Shares of JDS Uniphase fell 2.7 percent, a day after it reported a quarterly loss amid the spending slowdown in the communications industry. JDS shares slipped 9 cents to $3.23 and ranked among the Nasdaq's most-active issues.
Duke Energy rose after the company said its quarterly earnings fell, but still managed to beat analysts' forecasts. Its stock rose 31 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $17.59.

GRAPHIC:  Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); ACCOUNTING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (57%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (51%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (51%); MSO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (51%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



19 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says Tax Cut Without Spending Reductions Could Be Damaging 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, told Congress today that the economy was poised to grow without further large tax cuts, and that budget deficits resulting from lower taxes without offsetting reductions in spending could be damaging to the economy. Opponents of the large cut favored by President Bush took Mr. Greenspan's testimony as support for their position.
 Mr. Greenspan's statements to the House Financial Services Committee were made as new Treasury data showed that tax revenues have arrived at a much slower pace than expected this spring. As a consequence of the revenue shortfall and increased spending enacted this month, government and private analysts said today, the budget deficit this fiscal year will be at least $80 billion higher than the Congressional Budget Office projected last month. 
 With a large deficit, Mr. Greenspan said, "you will be significantly undercutting the benefits that would be achieved from the tax cuts."
The combination of Mr. Greenspan's testimony and the prospects of a higher deficit gave added ammunition to Mr. Bush's political opponents, as the president continued today to press Congress to approve a $550 billion, 10-year tax cut.
"These deficit numbers are just the latest reminder that what many of us have expressed concern about is becoming even more of a problem," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader.
The president met today on the tax issue with Republican Congressional leaders. Afterward, Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, said that the president and all the leaders wanted as large a tax cut as possible and that Congress might consider more than one tax measure this year.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, played down any disagreement with Mr. Greenspan. Last week, the president announced that he would renominate Mr. Greenspan to his fifth term as Fed chairman, and Mr. Greenspan, 77, said he would accept.
Mr. Fleischer said today that Mr. Bush's first priority was creating jobs immediately and that the government could reduce the deficit "over time." He agreed with Mr. Greenspan that the best way to lower the deficit was to hold the line on government spending.
Mr. Greenspan said that with the end of the uncertainties associated with the war in Iraq, the economy was in a position for strong growth. But if that does not occur, he said, the Fed was prepared to lower interest rates further.
As is his practice, Mr. Greenspan spoke elliptically in his Congressional testimony and never addressed the tax legislation before Congress specifically.
But he said that even without additional stimulus, "the economy is positioned to expand at a noticeably better pace than it has during the past year." 
He also said new academic evidence had strengthened his opinion that budget deficits led directly to higher interest rates.
Mr. Greenspan's view on tax cuts is similar to one he expressed in February, but the environment has changed. Congress is now on the verge of drafting and voting on actual tax legislation, and the Fed chairman's views on economic matters carry more weight in Congress than the opinions of any other economist.
In response to a question about the need for additional economic stimulus, Mr. Greenspan said that with the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and sizable growth in government spending, "we already have a significant amount of stimulus in place."
He added that he was skeptical of the ability of changes in tax and spending policy to "fine tune" the economy in the short term.
Mr. Greenspan said he strongly supported the president's tax policy, particularly the proposal to eliminate taxes on most stock dividends, "provided it is matched by cuts in spending."
Deficits are especially important in the near future, he said, because of the pressure on the economy early in the next decade when the baby boom generation begins to reach retirement age.
The shortfall in tax revenues has been apparent all spring, but the magnitude did not become clear, economic analysts said, until they examined the Treasury's daily reports of tax receipts in the two weeks since the April 15 filing deadline.
William C. Dudley, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said he was seeing "a pretty sizable shortfall relative to expectation."
Goldman is forecasting a $425 billion deficit in the current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. In February, the White House projected a deficit of $304 billion. Last month, the Congressional Budget Office, using a different method of calculation, projected a deficit of $246 billion.
A senior Republican staff member in Congress who has analyzed the Treasury data said that revenues were running about $40 billion lower than the Congressional Budget Office expected. He said tax refunds were about $20 billion higher than anticipated and tax payments about $20 billion lower.
One reason for the shortfall in revenues, economists say, is that the poor performance by the stock market in 2002 resulted in smaller tax payments of capital gains taxes and fewer taxes paid by business executives who exercised stock options.
In addition to the deficit increase resulting from lower revenues, the projections by the White House and the Congressional Budget Office do not count the $42 billion in additional spending, mostly for the war, that Congress approved this month. Nor do they consider the likelihood that Congress will approve tax cuts and make at least some of them retroactive to Jan. 1 and the probability that the administration will ask Congress for additional spending authority for reconstruction costs in Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, right, talked with Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, at a news conference on Tax Cuts for America. At right, Republican leaders, from left, Deborah Pryce, chairwoman of the House caucus; Representative Christopher Cox; Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader; and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, outside the White House. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); (Doug Mills/The New York Times); Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, before a House panel. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); APPROVALS (73%); JOB CREATION (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); CHRISTOPHER COX (58%); DEBORAH PRYCE (58%); TOM DASCHLE (50%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



20 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Greenspan on a Tax Cut
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, told Congress the economy was set to grow without a new large tax cut. PAGE A32

Foster Care Failures Detailed
State records in New Jersey offer chilling examples of how caseworkers failed to act to protect children in the foster care system. PAGE B1

Questions in McVeigh Case
Ten days before Timothy J. McVeigh's execution, lawyers tried to inform the government about possible false testimony. PAGE A24

Visa Settles With Retailers
Visa USA, facing a trial over its debit card fees, agreed to a settlement with retailers, two days after MasterCard reached a deal. PAGE C1

Quake Buries Turkish School
A strong earthquake struck eastern Turkey, burying as many as 200 children inside a school and killing at least 30 people. PAGE A8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); FOSTER CARE (88%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (87%); CHILDREN (87%); CHILD WELFARE (87%); EARTHQUAKES (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VISA INC (84%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) TURKEY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



21 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-20

Rumsfeld Visits Baghdad And Meets Iraqi Officials
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld visited Baghdad for the first time since the war to topple Saddam Hussein began, and met with American and Iraqi officials who are struggling to restore water, power and other essential services to the city's 4.5 million people. He also taped a message to the Iraqi people, saying that the allies had no intention of owning or running Iraq. A1

American soldiers shot and killed at least two more demonstrators in Falluja as a crowd of angry Iraqis chanted and threw stones to protest the killing of 15 people by soldiers in a demonstration there two days ago. A1

The American military has begun to capture suspected Iranian agents, and is planning to station military forces along the major routes from Iran to try to stop infiltrations by Iranian-backed forces. A14

A London-based Arabic newspaper printed a handwritten letter said to be signed by Saddam Hussein that calls on Iraqis to rise up against American forces. A15

Terror Suspect Captured
A top operative of Al Qaeda who is suspected of playing key roles in both the suicide bombing of the destroyer Cole and the Sept. 11 attacks was captured in Pakistan along with five other terrorist suspects, American officials said. A1

Mideast Peace Plan Presented
A diplomatic coalition that includes the United States formally presented Israeli and Palestinian leaders with a detailed peace plan, opening a fresh pursuit of an end to the bitter conflict as a new Palestinian government took office. A1

SARS Relapse for Some
Health officials in Hong Kong said that a dozen patients who had seemed to recover from SARS became ill again after leaving the hospital. A1

Earthquake in Turkey
A strong earthquake killed at least 30 people in eastern Turkey and toppled a school dormitory, trapping up to 200 students under debris. A8

NATIONAL A22-33

Arsenic at Church Social Mystifies Tiny Maine Town
The death of one man and the hospitalization of 15 other people who drank coffee at a church social has mystified the tiny, tight-knit town of New Sweden, Me. Tests point to arsenic, and rumors are rife. A22

Greenspan Opposes Tax Cut
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, suggested to Congress that a large tax cut was not necessary to generate economic growth and that the budget deficits resulting from lower taxes without offsetting reductions in spending could damage the economy. A32

States Push Gambling Limits
Facing daunting deficits and with little appetite for raising taxes, a growing number of states have tried tapping into the $50 billion gambling industry through measures that expand state lotteries, license new casinos and negotiate higher percentages from Indian gambling. A31

Forensic Security Doubted
Ten days before Timothy McVeigh was executed for the Oklahoma City bombing, lawyers for F.B.I. laboratory employees sent an urgent letter to the attention of Attorney General John Ashcroft saying that a key prosecution witness might have given false testimony about the security of forensic evidence. The letter was opened long after the execution. A24

Immunity Granted to Agent
Prosecutors have agreed to give limited immunity to a veteran F.B.I. agent entangled in a Los Angeles espionage investigation, but they are also considering new and potentially more serious charges against both him and a prized bureau informant with whom he had a long-term affair, officials said. A30

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Anthrax Bacterium Decoded
Scientists at the Institute for Genomic Research in Maryland have determined the full sequence of DNA units in the genome of the anthrax bacterium and found it resembles that of a common soil bacterium. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Critics Say Pataki Is Playing to Peoria
Gov. George E. Pataki has staked his political future on a budget battle with the Legislature, and even his aides acknowledge that he may well lose. Critics say his fight against a tax increase is intended to play to a national audience, furthering his personal ambitions. A1

Chilling Trail of Child Abuse
State records made public under court order offered chilling examples of just how disastrously New Jersey caseworkers had failed to act to protect children in its foster care system despite evidence that they were at serious risk. B1

Switch on Aid for Mentally Ill
The New York Legislature has unexpectedly rejected a Pataki administration plan to make short-term improvements at adult homes for the mentally ill, instead turning over most of the proposed money to the home's operators. B1

Hearing on Transit Suit
A state judge will hear arguments today in a lawsuit that seeks to stop the imminent transit fare increase, on the ground that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority misled the public about the true nature of its finances. B2

ARTS E1-12

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-16

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES B8

Albert Hakim
A businessman who wove an intricate web of Swiss bank accounts and dummy corporations in the Iran-contra arms-for-hostages deal, he was 66. B8

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

New Enron Indictments
After more than a year of investigations into the collapse of Enron, the government is set to unveil the most significant indictments yet, charging eight new defendants with participating in frauds at the company. C1

Pension Debate Heats Up
Bush administration officials said that the way pension values are now measured is flawed and that fixes proposed by corporations might further weaken the system. The government suggested a new approach that business advocates opposed. C1

Visa Agrees to Settle
Visa USA, facing a trial over its debit card fees, agreed to a settlement with retailers, two days after a similar deal was reached by MasterCard. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A34-35

Editorials: Brooklyn's courthouse gang; Wall Street revisionism; the cost of SARS; AIDS and the right to life.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E10
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GAMING (86%); TAX LAW (84%); TAX RELIEF (84%); TAX INCENTIVES (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); BUDGETS (76%); EARTHQUAKES (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); LOTTERIES (71%); SHOOTINGS (70%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); FORENSICS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (67%); CASINOS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); AL-QAEDA (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); TAX INCREASES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); STUDENT HOUSING (62%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) MAINE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003 



22 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4632 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums children under 12 and museum members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "MATTHEW BARNEY: THE CREMASTER CYCLE," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through June 11). The most anticipated show by any American artist to emerge in a decade or more. "Cremaster," Mr. Barney's nine-year, five-film project, here presented whole for the first time, is an inspired benchmark of ambition, scope and forthright provocation for art in the new century. I recall Elizabeth Murray's describing how Philip Guston's crazy late works gave her heart to do her own mature paintings. Mr. Barney has brought to the art world a new freedom to explore narrative. He has introduced a new repertory of materials, gooey, strange, malleable and synthetic, which nobody thought of as germane before. Never mind that the films and many (not all) of his related sculptures, installations and photographs are very beautiful. The show, an installation itself, brings them together. The earliest "Cremaster" sculptures are film props, cobbled into installations that don't jell. But the latest are better: twin steel towers framed in plastic, a suite of abstract sculptures derived from automobile chassis. Vaseline and plastic combine with cement and steel -- pink and gray, rough and smooth, hard and soft -- the materials sustaining a narrative of formal eloquence. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $15; $10 for students and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

* "MONTIEN BOONMA: THE TEMPLE OF THE MIND," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742 (through May 11). The art of the Thai artist Montien Boonma (1953-2000) combines many influences, from Southeast Asian Buddhism to Arte Povera and Joseph Beuys. But his art, by turns witty and somber, is not primarily about hybrid identities; it is about how to forge a life of psychic balance in an unbalanced and unbalancing world. In part he did so through the use of repeated, resonant symbols: the monk's alms bowl, the temple bell. He also turned art into an embracing sensual experience by infusing his installations with healing fragrances. There's nobody like him and nothing in town like this modestly scaled survey show. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5 for students and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

* "EGYPT REBORN: ART FOR ETERNITY," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (permanent installation). The second and final phase in the museum's reinstallation of its world-renowned holdings of ancient Egyptian art, this dazzling display rounds up more than 600 objects -- from king-and-queen-size monuments to tiny rings and amulets -- from the predynastic period to the 18th dynasty. Together with the first phase, which opened in 1993 and covers later Egyptian art, visitors will now be able to trace the entire course of this brilliant and complex civilization from its beginnings to its absorption by the Roman Empire in 30 B.C. The heart of the new installation is an introductory gallery that provides a wonderful summation, with a survey of sculptural styles and displays of weapons, pottery, cosmetics, jewelry, furniture and funerary arts. The adjacent galleries are devoted to an extensive chronological survey. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3 for students and 62+ (Grace Glueck).

"FRAKTUR TREASURES FROM THE SCHWENKFELDER LIBRARY AND HERITAGE CENTER," American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through May 11). Among the more vibrant practitioners of fraktur, the Pennsylvania German art of embellishing letters and documents, were members of a Protestant sect called the Schwenkfelders, still going strong in Pennsylvania, where they migrated in the early 18th century. They brought with them the old-country custom of illuminating documents with decorative writing, drawings, borders, angels, hearts, flowers, birds and more esoteric symbols. The highly stylized work was called "fraktur" from the broken elements of the lettering. The Schwenkfelders put their all into Geburtscheine (birth certificates), Vorschriften (writing samplers), love letters, marriage certificates, religious texts and house blessings. The work in this show, both religious and secular, is lent by the Schwenkfelder Library in Pennsburg, Pa, which since 1884 has collected more than 1,000 examples of Pennsylvania fraktur and is especially rich in Schwenkfeldiana. Don't let all the cutesy hearts and flowers put you off; there's an innocent exuberance about this work that's captivating. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+ (Glueck).

* "MANET/VELAZQUEZ: THE FRENCH TASTE FOR SPANISH PAINTING," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through June 8). The Met has clearly called in every chip to make this show spectacular. The first rooms are a virtual survey of great Spanish painting of the 17th and 18th centuries; after that comes a virtual Manet retrospective, with some Degas and Courbet thrown in for good measure; then a virtual 19th-century American overview of the most gifted portraitists influenced by Spanish painting via Manet, Degas and Courbet: Eakins, Chase, Sargent and Whistler. The thesis of Spanish influence on French art is hardly new, but it is explored in such precise and fresh detail, discreetly, without pushing comparisons (in that respect it's not like "Matisse Picasso" at the Modern, notwithstanding the coincidental titled pairings) that you would have to be churlish not to leave edified and amazed. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $7 for students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

"MATERIAL DIFFERENCES: ART AND IDENTITY IN AFRICA," Museum for African Art, 36-01 43rd Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-7700 (through Aug. 15). Part Art Methods 101, part Advanced Connoisseurship, this handsome, thoughtful show examines the potent connection between matter and meaning in diverse African cultures and shows them to be organically connected. The material is spiritual in these cultures, and the show's 130 mostly ceremonial objects, arranged strictly according to materials and techniques, reflect the power of that belief. Hours: Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50 for students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

* "MATISSE PICASSO," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 4520 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through May 19). If you're thinking of skipping it because of the crowds, that's not a good enough excuse. This is one for the ages: an eye-educating, often revelatory parlor game, with the fate of modern art as the stakes. The premise is a little dubious -- the two of them competing as if in stately isolation from everything else going on in art -- but the results look great. Choosing a winner is the sport of the event and the inevitable outcome of pitting titans mano a mano. Matisse comes out looking consistently good. To grasp 20th-century art, Picasso once said, "you ought to see side by side everything Matisse and I were doing." He was right about that. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; to 9 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Admission: $20; $15.50 for students and 65+; under 16 with an adult, free. Reserved tickets: Ticketmaster, (212) 307-5577; or toll free, (866) 879-6662, with Ticketmaster surcharges (Kimmelman).

"ELIE NADELMAN: SCULPTOR OF MODERN LIFE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600 (through July 20). Despite the clarion title, this exhibition is too monotonous, stiffly installed and short on drawings to do full justice to the erudite, polymorphous achievement of the Polish-born American sculptor Nadelman (1882-1946). Still, don't miss this opportunity to see his work in quantity, especially the streamlined wood figures from the 1920's and the small truculent plaster figurines, which were found in his studio after his death. Their suave economy, ineffable stillness, delicate gestures and seamless blend of historical and popular sources make them among the most complex, fully visual sculptures in Western art. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50 for students and 62+ (Smith).

"POETRY OF SIGHT: THE PRINTS OF JAMES McNEILL WHISTLER (1834-1903)," New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, (212) 869-8089 (through May 10). A salute on the centenary of his death to the painter's brilliance as a printmaker, this show presents more than 130 etchings, drypoints and lithographs that trace Whistler's career from its beginnings in Paris to his last years. A much less showy and theatrical side of Whistler is apparent in this display, which includes the famous "sets" done in France, London and Venice. Other graphic work, correspondence, photographs and personal documents are also on view in this well-organized presentation. Hours: Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Free (Glueck).

* "CHRISTIAN SCHAD AND THE NEUE SACHLICHKEIT," Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200 (through June 9). Schad's career effectively lasted only 15 years from around 1915 to 1930, and for just two or three of those years was he doing what deserves to be remembered now. Not much time. But just enough. Schad at his mordant best precisely captured an anxious culture affected by war and the threat of it: his bloodless portraits in Vienna and Berlin suggest deep unease and foreboding beneath porcelain surfaces. They are explicitly unemotional, even when they are frankly erotic, as they frequently are. His drawing, akin to some done by Dix and Grosz, shy away from the issues of class conflict that inflamed both of those other artists. To the end, Schad remained aloof. Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7 for students and 65+
(Kimmelman).

* "TRANSMITTING THE FORMS OF DIVINITY: EARLY BUDDHIST ART FROM KOREA AND JAPAN," Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155 (through June 22). The role of Korea in the development of Buddhist art and thought in Japan and therefore in the formation of Japanese culture itself emerges from decades of habitual marginalization in this beautiful exhibition. Dominated by meditating Buddhas and handsomely attired bodhisattvas dating from the sixth to the ninth centuries, the show, which has been organized with the Korea Society of New York, dispenses lessons in several kinds of grace, religious as well as formal. It highlights the forceful stylization and subtle abstraction of the human figure, which while common in Asian and African art, is rarely equaled in Western sculpture between the medieval and modern periods. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students and 65+ (Smith).

* "WHISTLER, WOMEN AND FASHION," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through July 13). A dandy, a wit and a social butterfly who cultivated his image as a star aesthete, James McNeill Whistler (1834-1903) had a lifelong interest in fashion and women's clothes. This show honors the centenary of the painter's death by exploring his intense, unabashed involvement with fashion. He obsessed over what his female sitters wore, choosing the clothes they posed in and in some cases actually designing them himself. For Frances Leyland, the fashionable subject of one of his most smashing pictures, he created an elegant, loose-fitting tea gown of diaphanous pink chiffon worn over a white underdress. The display includes many major images of women in their finery and several magnificent gowns of the Whistler period along with smaller oils, drawings, pastel studies, costume designs, prints and watercolors, and relevant 19th-century fashion plates. It's a fitting tribute to a bravura brush. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $12; $5 for students; $8 for 62+ (Glueck).

Galleries: Uptown

JOHN WILLIAM HILL, Richard York, 21 East 65th Street, (212) 772-9155 (through May 10). Hill (1812-1879) founded the now little remembered American Pre-Raphaelite movement. He was immune to the medievalism of the English Pre-Raphaelites, but he took to heart John Ruskin's admonition to work from nature. Most of the skillfully made drawings and watercolors here are conventionally picturesque, but two densely worked watercolors of fruits, vegetables and nuts on the ground have an earthy palpability that one imagines Henry David Thoreau would have appreciated (Ken Johnson).

JANNIS KOUNELLIS, Michael Werner, 4 East 77th Street, (212) 988-1623 (through May 24). These works on paper from the 1970's and 80's by Mr. Kounellis, a maverick sculptor and painter who participated in the Arte Povera movement in the 1960's, tap into the many themes of his larger projects. They range from the merest of sketches to finished drawings. Fragile wisps of thought, more substantial images like factories and locomotives, black overall patterns of skull-faces that seem to evoke a mass catastrophe: some fragments are powerful bits of visual poetry, but others are slight to the point of meaninglessness (Glueck).

* "KURT SCHWITTERS: COLLAGES, PAINTINGS, DRAWINGS, OBJECTS, EPHEMERA," Ubu Gallery, 416 East 59th Street, (212) 753-4444 (through May 23). The German artist Kurt Schwitters (1887-1948) made artful arrangements of found scraps -- torn photographs, ticket stubs, labels, newspaper clips and other discarded bits -- into abstract compositions that balanced colors, forms, textures and printed matter to dazzling effect. More than 60 of his works, Dada-oriented but also much influenced by Constructivism and Russian Suprematism, are brought together here in a museum-quality display that ranges in date from before 1920 to the late 1940's. One standout in this bountiful show is a gem from 1931, "Untitled (Red, Gray, Black)," a rigorously structured composition with all the elegant trappings of Suprematism-Constructivism brilliantly translated into "Merz," Schwitters's no-meaning name for his own visual language (Glueck).

Galleries: 57th Street

FERNANDA BRUNET, "Bang," Ramis Barquet, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 644-9090 (through May 16). Graphic pop and gestural dynamism combine in this Mexico City artist's paintings. Ms. Brunet takes images of explosions, deluges, volcanic eruptions and tidal waves from Japanese comic books and turns them into semiabstract compositions, in a palette of earth tones and silver. They humorously suggest transports of erotic ecstasy (Johnson).

JOHN CEDERQUIST, "Furniture That Builds Itself," Franklin Parrasch, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 246-5360 (through May 31). Mr. Cederquist's beautifully made woodworks are simultaneously functional pieces of furniture and zany cartoons in two and three dimensions. With painted Mickey Mouse arms wielding drills and planes as if in the act of building, these funky sculptures are deceptively whimsical meditations on the mind's construction of reality (Johnson).

EMILY EVELETH, Danese, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 223-2227 (through May 10). With a soft painterly touch, Ms. Eveleth turns humble jelly doughnuts into monumental, voluptuous objects of desire. Glowing and looming against dark backgrounds singly or in piled groups, they laze like corpulent odalisques. Each has its dark, raspberry-stained orifice turned to the viewer, to slightly alarming effect (Johnson).

TOM WESSELMANN, "The Great American Sixties," Maxwell Davidson, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 759-7555 (through June 13); "Nudes and Abstracts," Robert Miller, 524 West 26th Street, (212) 366-4774 (through May 10). Wesselmann then and now: Davidson's selection of works from the 1960's includes one of the Pop Art master's classic Great American Nude apartment paintings -- real telephone and radiator included -- and seductive small studies of female body parts: pillowy lips, nubile breasts and coy painted toes. The new work at Miller finds the artist in a Matissean mood, folding his pin-up iconography into compositions of Cubist semiabstraction and, with a series of large reliefs of sweeping, brightly colored planes, breaking into purely decorative abstraction (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

OLIVE AYHENS, "Bridges," Gary Tatintsian, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 633-0110 (through May 24). It is hard to capture the dizzying dynamism of New York City in painting, but Ms. Ayhens succeeds with her exuberantly expressionistic canvases. She paints overhead views of streets and bridges with reckless confidence, insouciant disregard for ordinary perspective and a fine eye for detail and light. In some cases she creates shotgun weddings of urban and wilderness scenery with environmentalist intentions but mainly to vertiginous effect (Johnson).

RAINER GROSS, "Doppelganger/Contact Paintings," Axel Raben, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 647-9064 (through May 24). This New York-based German artist makes sensuous abstract paintings by a process of his own invention that involves fusing two paintings face to face and then pulling them apart. Exhibited singly or as diptychs, the paintings look like flaking wall sections. They have lush, supersaturated colors and dry, crusty surfaces that look like velvet from a distance (Johnson).

"KARAOKE DEATH MACHINE," Daniel Reich, 308 West 21st Street, (917) 408-9097 (through June 2). This is more like a visit to someone's tiny, dark and incredibly cluttered apartment than to a gallery exhibition; actually it is Mr. Reich's tiny, dark and incredibly cluttered apartment-cum-gallery. A stream-of-consciousness salon-style installation of more than 100 small works by more than two dozen artists as well as many images lifted directly from commercial media, the show is uneven, to say the least. But it has a grainy video copy of an early film by Niki de Saint Phalle and an excellent title (Johnson).

JEAN-FRANCOIS MORICEAU AND PETRA MRZYK, "Only for Your Eyes," Marcus Ritter, 453 West 17th Street, (212) 463-7375 (through May 17). This young cartoon-making team generates sight gags with seemingly effortless abandon. Hairy prehistoric people shaving their private parts; anthropomorphic paintings on strike, carrying signs that say, "We want a new curator"; an owl with Mickey Mouse ears; a woman with square breasts; a giant eye with two pupils. More than 100 of these black-ink line drawings, individually framed and stacked up against the wall, will give your sense of humor an invigorating workout (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

"EXTRA," Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 925-2035 (through May 10). The curator Marc-Olivier Wahler asks, "How many extra layers can we graft onto reality before it collapses?" The 11 works here do little to answer the question, but they make an entertaining show. They include Bruno Peinado's giant brown Michelin man with an Afro, Wim Delvoye's tattooed pig, Peter Fischli and David Weiss's trompe-l'oeil studio props, Olivier Blanckart's Village People made of paper and tape and adorable little robotic dogs programmed to fight by Stephane Sautour (Johnson).

* "THE STAGE OF DRAWING: GESTURE AND ACT," Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166 (through May 31). It's not easy to assemble a truly engaging show from a vast collection of drawings like that owned by England's Tate. But this one, selected by a British artist, Avis Newman, with Catherine de Zegher, director of the Drawing Center, really works. Not a tiresome institutional tour but a vividly personal one, it views drawing as "an open-ended and exploratory activity," with exhibits ranging from a 295-foot line on a roll of wrapped paper to precise renderings of 19th-century hairdos. The mix of artists runs from J. M. W. Turner to Andy Warhol; the juxtapositions reveal affinities across centuries and cultures (Glueck).

Brooklyn

ROBERT GRUNDER, Sixtyseven, 67 Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 486-0387 (through May 18). Mr. Grunder's semiabstract paintings of mall stores and parking lots are O.K., but his bird's-eye views of freeways, overpasses and cloverleaf intersections painted on white grounds have a cool dynamism that nicely evokes the speediness of modern life (Johnson).

SCOTT TEPLIN, "Moron," Jessica Murray Projects, 210 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 384-9606 (through May 11). Mr. Teplin's delightfully inventive drawing is like a conference call among Dr. Seuss, R. Crumb, Ed Ruscha and Rube Goldberg. Words like moron, flapjack and bonus hole are dug into the ground, constructed from industrial steel or whirling in space, while floating beds, gobs of mud, circulating tubes, spurting, gnarly nipples and disembodied mouths convey a spirit of gleeful surrender to the mind's own perversely polymorphous energies (Johnson).

Other Galleries

"DE LO QUE SOY/OF WHAT I AM," Lehman College Art Gallery, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, the Bronx, (718) 960-8731 (through May 12) and "Taino Treasures: The Legacy of Dr. Ricardo E. Alegria" (through today). This survey of contemporary self-portraiture by 22 women of Latin American or Caribbean descent takes the genre beyond Kahlo-esque narcissism. A few pieces include images of the artists, but in most the first-person presence is only obliquely in evidence. Through tomorrow there is also a show of Taino sculpture, created from the 10th to the 15th century by the indigenous people of the Caribbean (Cotter).

* TARA DONOVAN, Ace Gallery, 276 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 255-5599 (through May 15). Installation art proved long ago that lots of space combined with lots and lots of one material, arranged by stupefyingly simple labor-intensive methods, can work wonders. This solo debut provides supporting evidence that, if not too original, is amazingly succinct. The materials include transparent tape, Elmer's glue and pencils; the high point is something that looks from afar like a fairly large cloud or snow bank but is not (Smith).

ANN SPERRY, "30 Pieces/30 Years," Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion Museum, 1 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 824-2205 (through June 26). Since the early 1970's, Ms. Sperry has been bending, shaping and welding metal into metaphorically suggestive abstractions. The best works in this retrospective have an industrial surrealism similar to, though not as surprising as, that of Donald Lipski (Johnson).

Last Chance

"AFRICAN-AMERICAN ARTISTS, 1929-1945: PRINTS, DRAWINGS AND PAINTINGS IN THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART," Metropolitan Museum, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sunday). Covering the time from the Depression through World War II, this display of more than 80 works by Jacob Lawrence, Romare Bearden, Bill Traylor and Horace Pippin among others is divided among artists who subscribed to the notions of European Modernism and those who dealt with issues of cultural heritage and racial identity. It highlights the Met's own holdings of African-American art, which have been considerably supplemented by 204 prints recently donated by Reba and Dave Williams. With the show's works grouped in categories like "Faces," "The South," "The North," "Labor," "Religion," "Recreation" and "War," it makes a nice if rather bland introduction to issues confronting artists of the era. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).

"MADONNA AND STEVEN KLEIN: X-STATIC PRO=CESS." Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, near Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 343-7300 (through tomorrow). Mr. Klein's tacky mural-size photographs of the rock diva Madonna in various histrionic ensembles and sets might as well be stills from unusually egregious music videos except that they occasionally twitch. Their blatant derivativeness can make you momentarily giddy with something resembling delight (Smith).

* LARRY MANTELLO, Henry Urbach Architecture, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-0974 (through tomorrow). Mr. Mantello's terrifyingly funny "Box Rap" is like a walk-in CARE package of contemporary Americana, ready for shipping anywhere out to the world. Within a closet-like compartment, the artist has packed a cornucopian jungle of Disney dolls, cartoon videos, lollipops, Christmas ornaments, junk food containers and condom packages and accompanied the assemblage with a star-spangled sound track of patriotic songs. He also extends his gift for acidic confection to collages that weave together news items and advertisements, athletes and body parts to suggest a culture composed of a whole lot of everything but in which nothing is whole (Cotter).

* JENNY SAVILLE, "Migrants," Gagosian, 555 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-1111 (through tomorrow). This 32-year-old London painter's plus-size pictures of naked, corpulent female bodies has given figurative painting a good shot in the arm. This exhibition finds her shifting into melodramatic overdrive. Enhanced by viscerally expressionistic painting, pictures of the artist's head lying on its side suggest aftermaths of domestic brutality. The image of a screaming full-figured woman, her face bathed in blood, might be a homage to Francis Bacon's screaming pope (Johnson).

* "SEEING RED I: PIONEERS OF NONOBJECTIVE PAINTING," Hunter College Art Galleries, 68th Street and Lexington Avenue, (212) 772-4991 (through tomorrow). The optical and symbolic power of red is the basis of this one-color show, which presents a lineup of wonderful paintings, beginning with work by two significant emigre painter-teachers, Hans Hofmann and Josef Albers. The show is meant to mark the evolution of color theory and the effect of new scientific advances in the field on nonobjective painting; it celebrates some of the pioneers of this movement (which contains no identifiable imagery) in the United States. The focus on one color affords a more intense observation of differences in surface and texture, subtle gradations in tone and the play of light. Besides the controlled geometrics of Albers's nested boxes and the dynamic Expressionist splash of Hofmann's fiery painted ball, there are works by Jack Youngerman, Tony Smith, Richard Anuszkiewicz, Richard Pousette-Dart, Kenneth Noland and Robert Motherwell, among others (Glueck).

BETTY WOODMAN: "Souvenirs," Max Protech, 511 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 633-6999 (through tomorrow). Recent travels in Europe, India and East Asia have given the ceramist Betty Woodman, an inventive vessel maker, some engaging ideas that build on a long Woodman-esque tradition -- for example, lively miniature stage sets whose crisply delineated actors are vessels and shards in Matisse-style cutout shapes. They were derived from the archaeology of the Aeolian Islands off Sicily. A visit to Asia and the sight of sculptures of deities clad in fabric inspired her to make a group of vases dressed in brightly colored robes and echoing womanly shapes. There are many more delights in this animated show (Glueck).

GRAPHIC: Photos: The drawing "58 Kirchennacht" (1918) is in the show "Kurt Schwitters: Collages, Paintings, Drawings, Objects, Ephemera" at the Ubu Gallery uptown. (Ubu Gallery); A standing bodhisattva in "Transmitting the Forms of Divinity." (Japan Society) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); SCULPTURE (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); RELIGION (61%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (67%); ASIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



23 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUES; 
What Price English Glory?

BYLINE:  By Wendy Moonan 

 BODY:
There is no shortage of fine dealers specializing in English antiques in New York. The list includes Florian Papp, Kentshire Galleries, Philip Colleck, Hyde Park Antiques and Clinton Howell, to name just a few. Nonetheless, yesterday's opening of a Manhattan branch of Mallett, the venerable London antiques firm, is an event in the antiques world. Mallett sells only the creme de la creme, at prices that make people faint.
 Founded in 1865, the gallery is probably the world's leading purveyor of high-end English furniture from the 17th through the 19th century. It is certainly the most expensive one, and proud of it. 
 The firm took over the former Devenish gallery premises at 929 Madison Avenue, at 74th Street. It gutted three floors of a five-story town house and reconfigured them to make luxurious room settings, including a fully furnished dining room with all the glittering trappings. 
Among the eye-catchers are a pair of circa 1755 carved mahogany over-scaled hall tables made for Hagley Hall in Worcestershire; two early-18th-century carved mahogany stools covered with brilliantly colored period floral needlework; a neoclassical white marble Adam mantle piece; and a 10-fold painted leather English screen, circa 1750.
The gallery interiors, with raised ceilings and art-filled walls, look like those in a private 18th-century English country house. The grand pieces of furniture are toned down with sporting pictures, Chinese porcelains and amusing knickknacks. At street level, Mallett created an enticing enfilade of rooms, beginning at the picture window in the front, so you can see all the way through to the back wall before entering. 
"I'd decided to come to New York before 9/11," said Lanto Synge, the executive director of Mallett. "We always wanted to come, but we had to find the right building. And there's another reason: we have a new clientele, a breed of young workaholics. They don't want to go to London, but they are still passionate about English antiques."
He spoke about a young Wall Street banker who made contact via the Internet. He called the banker when he was next in New York. "We got together after his workday," Mr. Synge said. "He was in jeans but very knowledgeable. He was a real collector. I used to think people didn't buy seriously until they were in their 50's. I was wrong. Collectors are now starting much earlier."
Mallett, commonly known as Mallett's, has always been a mecca to serious aficionados of English antiques. Early Anglophiles in America included Judge Irwin Untermeyer, whose 18th-century English furniture is now at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; William Randolph Hearst; and Paul Mellon.
"We're known for our extraordinary fantasy pieces," Mr. Synge said. "We're unpredictable; we mix English, French and Chinese. We may have a butterfly cabinet from the 1830's or two contemporary chairs by John Makepeace."
In more recent times collectors like Jayne Wrightsman, Henry Kravis, Ann Getty and Elton John have made pilgrimages to London to peruse the stock.
Now Mallett has come to the United States, which accounts for 60 percent of its clientele. (Mallett has also sold to several American museums, including the J. Paul Getty; the Metropolitan; the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; and the Art Institute of Chicago.)
The opening showstopper is probably the tall, all-gold George I bureau bookcase that belonged to Queen Carlota Joaquina, wife of King John VI of Portugal. It is attributed to James Moore, a leading London furniture maker who died in 1726, and his entrepreneurial partner, John Gumley. They supplied palatial furniture to both Burlington House and Blenheim Palace.
Apart from its beveled mirror doors and side mirror plates, the entire exterior, even the shell above the arched doors, is covered in golden gesso that looks like stamped leather. The gesso is richly carved in Renaissance-style strapwork patterns with scrolling foliage. 
The desk was made about 1720. The interior is neatly fitted out with shelves, small drawers, pigeonholes and a cupboard, all veneered with burr yew wood and walnut. "This bureau bookcase is one of a pair; we sold its companion in 1977," Mr. Synge said. "An Englishman would never have ordered two bureau bookcases. Only Europeans ordered them in pairs." 
Another notable piece is a Regency Egyptian-style collector's cabinet-on-stand from about 1810. Attributed to James Newton, it is a tour de force of the cabinetmaker's art. The exterior has two rosewood doors decorated with bands of tulipwood and boxwood. The corners boast ebonized sphinx heads. Between them is a foliate screen, with gilded foliage on an ebonized background. Above the screen is a hand-cut gilt metal gallery. The interior has 16 cedar-lined rosewood drawers in graduated sizes with ivory knobs. The stand has ebonized legs with gilded stripes, like a barbershop pole, and large black hairy paw feet.
"This was clearly a private commission," Mr. Synge said. It is selling for $512,000.
Mallett, of course, is known for its quintessential English antiques. "When we have brown furniture, it has to be the ultimate," Mr. Synge said.
Some of the earliest pieces are the most refined, including a perfectly proportioned, handsome dropfront oak desk fully veneered in exquisite burl walnut. The price is $145,000. The burl is perfectly matched on the front in panels bordered with herringbone cross banding in walnut.
On the ground floor is a small but magnificent Chippendale-period mahogany tripod tea table with a piecrust border. Because it is English, the tea table, which is selling for $360,000, costs a fraction of what it would if it were American, since so few survive. It is in mint condition, and the carving is exquisite.
Such pieces represent the best English furniture, the kind of understated pieces that most people are seeking. Their prices range from $15,000 to $2.2 million. Mallett also sells Continental antiques, like the Louis XIV Boulle bureau Mazarin, circa 1690, that is currently in New York. And it produces a few contemporary pieces, like coffee tables with antique Chinese lacquer panels, and two-tier glass drinks tables.
It may seem like a brave move to open up in New York during a recession, but Mallett, a public company quoted on the London Stock Exchange, has done extremely well recently. Last year sales rose 48 percent, to $40,537,600, with $8,308,000 in profit. "It was an exceptional year," Mr. Synge said. 

Barye Bronze Sale
Christie's sale of 160 bronzes by Antoine-Louis Barye, the 19th-century French animalier sculptor, totaled $2.7 million (against an estimate of $1 to $1.5 million). Lot 50, a sculpture of "Roger Carrying Off Angelica on the Hippogriff," set a record for the artist at auction.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Regency Egyptian-style collector's cabinet (circa 1810) at Mallett. (Mallett Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%) FURNITURE 

COMPANY: MALLETT PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MALLETT (LONDON DEALER) 

TICKER: MAE (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453310 USED MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5932 USED MERCHANDISE STORES (92%)

PERSON: MOONAN, WENDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



24 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Cold? What Cold? For Some, It's Pool Season

BYLINE:  By NANCY M. BETTER 

 BODY:
IN early April, just before embarking on a trip to the Bahamas, Jack and Carol Davis called Ray Lopez, who services their swimming pool in Weston, Conn. "We told him to get it open, the sooner the better," Mr. Davis said.
 Upon their return, the pool was up and running, although the air temperature was below 40 degrees, the yard was muddy with melted snow, and the trees were still bare. Mr. Davis, a retired health care executive, was unfazed by the elements. "When you open your pool, it's like you're declaring the start of summer," Mr. Davis said. "You're announcing that winter's over." 
 The Davises have joined a growing group of homeowners who want to ignore what the calendar tells them, extending the pool season for as long as they can. It is not enough for these people to provide a cool oasis for family and friends during the dog days of summer. They want to be first on the block to open their pool, tempting the neighbors with plumes of steam rising enticingly from the water, even if it means wearing sweaters and long pants while huddling in the poolside chaise lounges. 
Since 1996, the average season for in-ground pools in the Northeast has increased from 3.5 months to 4.4 months, according to a recent study by P. K. Data, an Atlanta-area market research firm. In some cases, homeowners are aiming to double the traditional Memorial-Day-to-Labor-Day season. "This is a trend largely fueled by technology," said Suzanne Barrows, a spokeswoman for the National Spa & Pool Institute, a trade group in Washington. "Heaters are cheaper and more efficient than ever before, and that puts them in the reach of more people. Now you don't have to wait for warm weather before opening your pool."
Indeed, phones are ringing at the offices of pool service companies while the ground is still frozen. Mr. Lopez, the caretaker for the Davises' pool, said he opened a dozen pools during the first week of April despite two snowstorms that closed area schools. "We're definitely getting more requests to open earlier," he said. "But a lot of people aren't actually using their pools; they just want the property to look pristine, and the cover isn't a pretty sight."
Kevin Vevante, owner of Aquacade Swimming Pools in Hicksville, N.Y., said many of his clients open their pools a month or two before they plan to swim. This is partly to get the most out of their investment. Mr. Vevante estimates that a new in-ground concrete pool lined with gunite -- not including patio, landscaping or fencing expenses -- costs from $75,000 to $100,000. Professional maintenance of such a pool can run from $2,000 to $4,000 annually. "If you're going to spend that kind of money, you're going to want the pool open as long as possible," he said.
Die-hard swimmers often care more about water temperature than aesthetics. Henry Singer, a Manhattan lawyer with a weekend home in Pound Ridge, N.Y., tries to heat his pool to 80 degrees by early May. "It's my summer exercise," he said. "I probably swim 200 laps every weekend." To conserve energy, Mr. Singer heats his pool at the beginning and the end of the season, and lets the sun do the job in between.
In some communities, heating bills are a price worth paying if it means early season dips. Chris Hollander, the service manager at Swimming Pools by Jack Anthony, which services more than 250 pools in the Hamptons, estimates that 90 percent of his customers have pool heaters. His company began opening pools in March for weekend homeowners. "Some people want to come out for Easter or Mother's Day and have the pool ready," he said.
Mr. Hollander said there are practical advantages to opening early. Because heat causes algae to bloom, it is easier to clean the water and balance the chemicals in cooler weather. And equipment repair or replacement means it can take two to four weeks to get a pool fully operational.
Some homeowners opt to open other features ahead of the main pool. Bill Evanson, chief financial officer of Anthony & Sylvan Pools of Mayfield Village, Ohio, said customers are building or adding spas with separate heaters that can operate independently of the main pool. Some are also putting in waterfalls for visual appeal and soothing sounds. Mr. Evanson chalks it up to what he calls the "recocooning" phenomenon.
"Families are traveling less and staying home more," he said. "The pool is a social center, not just a place to swim." 
Mr. Evanson's company, which built and installed about 4,000 pools across the country in 2002, is also doing a brisk business in so-called recreational pools, the large, shallow pools that are popular for playing volleyball and basketball, or doing water aerobics and other aquatic exercises. "The emphasis isn't on swimming anymore," Mr. Evanson said. "There are so many different uses for a pool."
Many homeowners are increasingly reluctant to shut their pools after Labor Day. "I've had requests to stay open until Thanksgiving," Mr. Lopez said. "It seems kind of crazy. But in this economy, we have to be a little more lenient. We'll let people stay open later if they really want to keep paying."
Heating costs mount quickly as days grow shorter and temperatures drop. To avoid clogging pipes with leaves and other debris, pool owners also have to keep filters and skimmers running constantly. Mr. Singer, the lawyer, estimates that he spends an extra $2,000 to keep his pool usable through October.
"We've gone about as far as we can go," said William Kennedy, the president of P. K. Data, the market research firm. "Nobody in the Northeast can keep a pool open 365 days a year -- unless you're a lifetime member of the Polar Bear Club."

HARDWARE
Heating Systems Range From Gas to Electric to Languid Solar
BEFORE choosing a heating system for a pool, you can get a heating audit from a local heating equipment dealer. Based on the weather data for your region, this computerized report will give you the approximate monthly cost of various systems. Or try the online calculator from the Florida Power and Light Company (www.fpl.com). Example: If you heat a 20-foot-by-40-foot pool in the New York metropolitan area to 80 degrees every day in May, your heating bill for the month will be about $330.
There are three basic types of pool heating systems. The best system for your needs is determined by your pool's size, shape and location, as well as your budget. Any system will benefit from the addition of a thermal pool cover, since 95 percent of a pool's heat loss occurs through evaporation.

GAS HEATERS -- Gas-fueled heaters are effective at raising temperatures quickly, but are relatively expensive to operate.

HEAT PUMPS -- Heat pumps are slower acting than gas pumps, but less expensive. Heat pumps use electricity to operate; they extract heat from the air and transfer it to the pool water. Lately, the cost of heat pumps has come down. A pool that uses $1,500 per year for gas heating may only require $500 for a heat pump.

SOLAR HEATERS -- Best for use in warmer regions, solar heaters also can be used to extend the season in cooler climates. The heaters use panels, usually located on the roof of your house, to heat water circulated through your existing pool pump. Monthly operating costs are negligible.
System costs vary. But heat pumps are typically $3,000 to $3,500, gas systems are $2,800 to $3,000 and solar ones are $5,000 to $10,000. NANCY M. BETTER

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THE SWIM -- Though the temperatures are hardly summerlike and the trees are still bare, some homeowners, like the Davis family of Weston, Conn., take pride in being among the first in their neighborhood to open the pool. (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. F1); NEVER TOO EARLY -- A technician cleaned a pool this week in Chappaqua, N.Y. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); TRENDS (77%); WEATHER (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%) SWIMMING POOLS 

PERSON: BETTER, NANCY M 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); BAHAMAS (88%) NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



25 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
Love Me, Love My Car

BYLINE:  By JASON TANZ 

 BODY:
EVERY car buyer faces difficult questions. Should I buy the extended warranty? Do I need a DVD player? How about alpaca floor mats? But people who purchase a Pontiac Aztek face another head-scratcher: how to respond to passersby who pull up next to them and inform them -- usually in obscene terms -- that their cars are the ugliest things ever to touch asphalt?
 There is no correct response to the inevitable assault. Joe Garcia, an Allentown, Pa., network administrator who has been driving his Aztek since October 2000, strikes back. "I used to get upset about it," he said in a March telephone interview. "Now I just say 'Hey, look in the mirror.' " 
 Rich Cottrell, who owns a manufacturing company on Cape Cod, uses self-effacing comebacks, like "I built it in my garage" and "It was designed by NASA to transport astronauts." 
Other Aztek drivers turn the other cheek and hope to avoid confrontation.
Once a year, WardsAuto.com, an auto industry data service in Northfield, Mich., publishes a list of the nation's best-selling cars. Owners who hit it right can rest easy, knowing their resale value is assured. There is no comparable worst-seller list -- the models with the lowest sales are likely to be limited-edition, exclusive cars or very expensive ones, not undesirables. But there are cars that bomb -- models that quickly turn into the ugly ducklings nobody likes. It's a tradition that goes back as far as the Edsel and includes such legendary fiascos as the AMC Pacer and the Yugo.
How does it feel to be one of the few who bought a car that captured no one else's imagination?
Since the Aztek was introduced in 2000, owning one has become the automotive equivalent of wearing a Red Sox cap in the Yankee Stadium bleachers. The car attracted unprecedented vitriol almost immediately, largely for its appearance -- a bit like a Toyota 4-Runner crossed with a turtle and highlighted with heavy black plastic cladding. Car and Driver derided its "rather cartoonish, space-cadet styling." Forbes.com called it "a truly unattractive car that might have been the unfortunate offspring of a tryst between a Volkswagen Thing and a Honda CRX."
One enterprising Aztek hater created an online petition to "Help Stop the Aztek Before It Starts." More than 400 people signed it between June and December of 2000. (Sample comment: "This is taking freedom of expression too far!! Don't forget to laugh at anyone driving an Aztek!") And in perhaps the most embarrassing blow for the car, Colby Donaldson -- who won an Aztek on the second season of "Survivor" in 2001 -- announced that he did not want it. He later sold it on eBay. 
Aztek owners have ways of defending their vehicles against the slings and arrows of wisecracking fellow motorists. They talk loudly about the car's handling and outdoorsy features, like the optional tentlike camping extension that attaches to the back. They praise its unique design and quirky personality. And they stick together. But now they face the prospect of being deserted by their only real ally: General Motors itself.
The Aztek has been a consistent sales disappointment for G.M.'s Pontiac division. The company initially hoped to sell as many as 70,000 a year. Instead, it sold 11,500 in the first six months. The company did a quick redesign and introduced a new version -- without the clunky black cladding that many critics found so unappealing. It also slashed the price. But sales still didn't come close to the 50,000 mark. In 2002, Pontiac sold 28,000 Azteks. And now comes talk of the predictable next step: the Aztek is expected to be discontinued as soon as late 2004, leaving its drivers with orphan cars, as the survivors of a discontinued model are called. (Pontiac won't confirm or deny the rumors. "It's there for the next two years," said Jim Vurpillat, the marketing director for Aztek. "Beyond that we don't discuss.")
"Clearly, the vehicle has not met its expectations," said Chris Cedergren, an analyst at Nextrend, an auto-industry research and consulting company in Thousand Oaks, Calif. "It just has not hit a chord at all."
"There's no doubt that it was a failure," agreed Haig Stoddard, manager of industry analysis at WardsAuto.com.
Should the calamity come to pass, Aztek owners will at least find themselves in good company. Just in the last few years, carmakers have discontinued several models after embarrassingly short life spans -- the Lincoln Blackwood, the Cadillac Catera and the briefly revived Mercury Cougar all come to mind. And at each announcement of a demise, thousands of owners have suddenly found themselves driving cars acknowledged as failures and virtually certain to lose a fair percentage of their resale value.
In 1998, the Ford Motor Company introduced a new version of its Mercury Cougar, which had been a popular and slightly upscale version of the Mustang in its first incarnation in the 60's and 70's and then morphed into a rather bland midsize coupe. The new Cougar was presented as a sleek, sporty front-drive model. In November 1999, John Scullin, a freelance graphic designer from Brockton, Mass., picked up a sapphire-blue 2000 Cougar. "I wanted an older, classic-style car," Mr. Scullin said. "As soon as I saw it, I was sold."
Mr. Scullin's Cougar quickly became his avocation. He spent hours customizing it and chatting online with fellow Cougar owners, many of whom became friends. In 2001, he brought together a six-car caravan that drove 900 miles to attend a CougarFest, an event in Detroit, supported by Ford, in which the car's enthusiasts were invited to tour the plant and hold a cookout.
But the market for a coupe like the Cougar was unhealthy, and the Cougar did not provide a cure. Plans were made to close out the Cougar and it was pulled from the market in 2002. The year the Cougar was discontinued, Mr. Scullin said, Ford stopped supporting the CougarFests for owners of the redesigned, late-model Cougars. "Ford has treated the Cougar as the relative nobody wants around," he said.
Another car introduced amid a rosy cloud of optimism was the Cadillac Catera, an Opel-based car touted as "the Caddy that zigs," which came out in 1996 and was intended to compete with European entry-level luxury sedans like the BMW 3-series and Mercedes Benz's C-class offerings. The Catera failed quickly and convincingly. Early models were beset with mechanical problems, and a confusing advertising campaign that featured a cartoon duck failed to attract the sophisticated young buyers that G.M., its parent, had in mind.
The Catera peaked with sales of 25,000 in 1997. In 1999, only 15,000 were sold.
By the time Mike Diamond of Thousand Oaks, Calif., bought his Catera in November 2000, for $20,000, it had already been several months since G.M. announced it would stop making the cars. But he was undeterred. He had owned orphaned vehicles before -- two Infiniti M30's -- and he liked the Catera's German-engineered handling and the reduced post-announcement price. What he wasn't prepared for was the scorn he felt the company heaped on the Catera. "They have fundamentally said that the whole car was a mistake," Mr. Diamond said.
A search of the Innovation Timeline on Cadillac's Web site confirmed Mr. Diamond's impression, yielding no trace that the Catera ever existed. Cadillac now has a new entry-level sedan, the CTS (which bears no resemblance to the Catera), but Mr. Diamond said he won't be buying one. "Now that they've told people the Catera was a bad idea," he said, "why would I go out and invest in the next bad idea?"
Some drivers whose vehicles have been orphaned claim to be happy about it. Katy Staley of Hazel Park, Mich., said she was proud to be one of the few to pick up a Lincoln Blackwood, a $50,000 luxury truck, in the year between when it was introduced and when the assembly line was closed in 2002. "It makes my truck more important to me, because I know there are only 3,600 of them out there," she said.
But it can take a long time for an odd duck to make it to collector status, if it ever does. "Some failed cars do come through and become highly coveted and collectible, but the majority do not," said Dave Dubie, a showroom sales manager for the Barrett-Jackson Auction Company, a seller of collectible cars in Scottsdale, Ariz. "If it's any kind of mass-marketed car, it will not become a future collectible." And for the immediate future, the economic ramifications of having one's car orphaned are rarely favorable.
"It completely destroys the resale value," said Mr. Cedergren of Nextrend. "Autos are about fashion, for the most part. A three-year-old car that looks like a new one has a lot more value than a car that you know is three years old because they've discontinued it."
Aztek owners are not waiting for the official announcement to express their displeasure with General Motors. They are already complaining that the company gave up on the car before it had a chance to succeed. When Mr. Cottrell was shopping for his Aztek, he visited several Pontiac dealers who, uncomfortable with the unusual car, tried to steer him away from it. "They said, 'Oh no, you'd be happier in a minivan,' " he recalled. "They said 'Well, it's overpriced, you know. It's not very popular.' " Many other Aztek owners complain that they have not seen any advertising for the car since it was introduced.
"I get letters from them all the time saying 'I haven't seen an ad lately,' " said Mr. Vurpillat, the Aztek marketing manager. He said that the Aztek was advertised in some local markets, though not nationwide. "We have other brands that we have to market and other brands that we have to launch," he said.
Aztek fans do their best to carry on. Two years ago, Mr. Garcia set up his first Aztek Rally in the parking lot of the Fashion Center shopping mall in Paramus, N.J. About 20 Aztek owners showed up to display their cars and spend the night in a campground. Last year, over 120 people went to the second rally in Owego, N.Y., including Mr. Vurpillat and some other representatives from G.M. This June, Mr. Garcia will hold another rally in Lehigh Valley, Pa.
Why is Mr. Garcia spending his free time and energy promoting what is surely a failing automobile? "No one else is," he said simply.
Another Aztek owner taking an us-against-the-world attitude is Tom Moog, a voice-over actor in Apex, N.C. In February, he set up an online meeting place for fellow free spirits, www.aztekfanclub.com. So far the site has registered more than 100 members who swap advice on installing hood protectors, flushing the transmission and -- of course -- responding snappily to critics.
Mr. Moog is not put off by the rumors of the Aztek's demise. "I hold my head up and I smile," he said. "I am an individual, I am unique, and I don't have to fit the mold of what society tells me to be."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BEAUTY AND BEHOLDER -- Joe Garcia of Allentown, Pa., likes his Aztek so much he organizes Aztek rallies. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. F1); FAMILY CAR -- Richard Cottrell of Falmouth, Mass., with his sons, Kyle, 9, right, and Curtis, 11, and their 2001 Aztek. (Stephen Rose for The New York Times)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT WARRANTIES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (75%); CD & DVD DRIVES (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (66%); PETITIONS (60%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PONTIAC DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: TANZ, JASON 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



26 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Teacher and Prodigy, Along With Need and Lust

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
With his dark, secretive gaze and clenched voice that always seems to be choking back an explosion, David Strathairn is a master at conveying the desperate, self-enforced repression of a man whose excess of feeling clashes with his innate stoicism. But this gifted actor is no one-trick pony. The range of what is held back can extend from an aching tenderness that threatens to melt into a sobbing puddle to the violent red-eyed fury he unleashed in "Dolores Claiborne," which found him delivering one of the scariest portrayals of a drunken wife-batterer ever etched on celluloid.
 In "Blue Car," he plays Mr. Auster, a dedicated high school English teacher intellectually and erotically drawn to his star student, Meg (Agnes Bruckner), a beautiful, precociously talented aspiring poet. Mr. Strathairn's complex, exquisitely nuanced portrayal of a man who goes over the line allows his character to be both hero and villain, sometimes at once. 
 To Meg, an angry, troubled young woman who is part angel, part surly teenage rebel, Auster becomes a surrogate father and mentor who tutors her after school and ultimately arranges for her to travel to Florida to participate in a national poetry competition. Once she is there, he throws caution to the winds despite the presence of his wife and son. The move he makes is not the practiced maneuver of a heartless seducer but the awkward, guilty gesture of an insecure middle-aged man.
A sensitive aesthete and caring friend on the one hand, and a self-deluded lecher and an impostor on the other, Auster is so eager to impress his protegee that he passes off the words of Rainer Maria Rilke as quotations from his own, probably nonexistent novel-in-progress. As he lurches between these poles, his good and evil sides begin to blur. The character emerges as a man whose failed dreams can never match his small, cramped life as a married high school teacher with a passion for literature. Faced with a young woman as dependent and adoring as Meg, who radiates a confusing mixture of innocence and sexual heat, he can't resist the temptation to play God.
"Blue Car" is a most impressive writing and directing debut for Karen Moncrieff, whose wised-up psychological radar has the same acute focus as the work of Nicole Holofcener ("Lovely and Amazing"). Although the movie revolves around the deepening student-teacher relationship, it is only one of many ambiguous connections placed under a microscope. "Blue Car," which opens today in New York and Los Angeles, is fascinated by what the therapists nowadays call "boundary issues," and the film imagines how tempting it is for the more powerful person in a relationship, whether a teacher or a parent, to transgress those boundaries.
Meg is the older of two sisters growing up in a family devastated by divorce and the resulting economic hardship. Her mother, Diane (Margaret Colin), has a high-stress, low-paying job that leaves her exhausted and irritable at the end of the day, and the bitterness she harbors toward her ex-husband leaks into her relationship with her children. To Meg, she is punitive and controlling. But every time she lays down the line, Meg's defiance only escalates.
Among other risky acts of rebellion, Meg, who is desperate for pocket change, shoplifts and assists a friend's drug-dealing older brother. She is continually at war with her emotionally disturbed younger sister, Lily (Regan Arnold), who expresses her boundless rage and depression by refusing to eat. Lily's hunger strike goes way beyond the definition of anorexia; it is a furiously willful death wish that requires swift medical intervention.
Mr. Strathairn's performance is matched in complexity by Ms. Bruckner's Meg, a demanding role that finds the 17-year-old actress confidently graduating into the big time from small parts in movies like "Murder by Numbers' and "The Glass House." The skill with which she evokes a mixture of childish willfulness and literary precocity, along with a deceptively poised awareness of herself as a desirable woman, nearly matches Alison Lohman's breakout performance last year in "White Oleander."
In some ways, the movie's vision of suburban life echoes "American Beauty," which presented a much sleeker, higher-rent portrait of disenchanted adults and their hostile teenage children. But here, the emotional edges are rougher and life is more harried. The movie conveys a sense of how hard ordinary people have to work to stay afloat in today's hyper-competitive labor market where job security can no longer be taken for granted.
"Blue Car," which takes its title from one of Meg's poems, has a real reverence for literature, along with a clear understanding of what's good and bad poetry. It has no use for the kind of sentimental mush the movies typically present as poetry. Auster knows what he's talking about when he advises Meg to cut her language to the bone and go for a ruthless emotional honesty. And in the movie's sad dramatic climax, when Meg unveils a newly minted poem at the Florida competition, that advice comes back to haunt him.
"Blue Car" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for nudity, sexual situations and scenes of drug taking.

BLUE CAR
Written and directed by Karen Moncrieff; director of photography, Rob Sweeney; edited by Toby Yates; music by Adam Gorgoni; production designer, Kristan Andrews; produced by Peer J. Oppenheimer, Amy Sommer and David Waters; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 87 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: David Strathairn (Auster), Agnes Bruckner (Meg), Margaret Colin (Diane), A. J. Buckley (Pat), Regan Arnold (Lily) and Frances Fisher (Delia).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agnes Bruckner and David Strathairn in Karen Moncrieff's "Blue Car." (Miramax Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FILM (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%); WRITERS (73%); POETRY (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (64%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (64%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: BRUCKNER, AGNES; STRATHAIRN, DAVID; MONCRIEFF, KAREN; HOLDEN, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: BLUE CAR (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



27 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 2009 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN REVIEW; 
From Olympus, Divine Dresses

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
Now this is the kind of looting we admire: old looting; remote, half-forgotten, lost-in-the-mists-of-time looting. As if the priceless rubble had been spirited away not by base temple robbers but by beauteous beings attuned to the highest spiritual calling.
 Or, if we must have new loot, let it be in the form of purloined ideas: inspiration, as it used to be called. Echoes are more ethereal than stones. And concepts are nearly as gossamer as the gowns in "Goddess," the new show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute. As feather-light, in fact, as the show itself. Blow gently, ye Aeolian winds, or the entire exhibition may float up and away into the trees of Central Park. 
 Organized by the Costume Institute's curator, Harold Koda, "Goddess" presents a couture version of Arcadia, late-18th-century Europe's sanitized re-creation of a Greece that never was. Gamboling Graces. Primavera. One hundred and forty variations on the theme of nymphs wrapped in gauze. That's the harmonious and sisterly conceit. 
This may not be the ideal moment for Arcadian idylls, however. Not when large chunks of our Mediterranean heritage have just been blown to smithereens. It is peculiar, moreover, to see such an important art museum standing history on its head. The presentation mingles fragments of ancient Greek statuary with 20th-century fashions that resemble them. This combination is intended to illustrate what Philippe de Montebello, the Met's director, describes in the show's catalog as "the unbroken line of classical influence." 
Actually, the 20th-century fashions on view depict precisely the reverse process: how modern Europeans created a purely ahistorical myth of Greek ancestry to compensate for the collapse of unifying social traditions in their own times. "Goddess" echoes but does not illuminate this Neo-Classical impulse. It withholds from viewers the cultural history of the myth the clothes act out.
It is delightful when fashion makes light of history, less so when museums make a shambles of it. But begone, dull conscience. Let's be fancy and carefree. Fashion is fashion. Primavera is the right idea for the season. And "Goddess" is one of the most beautiful shows the Costume Institute has ever put on.
Three red-robed Nikes greet the viewer on the way to the Met's own intimate Hades, the basement galleries where the Costume Institute is infernally lodged. Identically garbed in gowns of layered scarlet chiffon designed by Issey Miyake, the trio bring to mind the scene in "Funny Face" in which Audrey Hepburn holds aloft a red silk wrap to mimic the Victory of Samothrace looming behind her. Take the picture! 
These rippling "waterfall" dresses make the perfect introduction to a show that should leave many visitors with the feeling that modern civilization is vastly superior to that of the Greeks. They did have superb profiles. But our cosmetic surgery is improving every day. Greek plays aren't as good as Shakespeare's; their sculpture is less virtuosic than Bernini's. Even our dresses are superior to their statues, particularly when Jennifer Lopez wears them.
And we live longer. The average Greek life span was 32 years. No wonder the Greeks went in for total simplicity. Who had time to waste on shopping? If you spent your free hours at the gym, you stood a good chance of leaving a pretty corpse. Like Chanel, the Greeks devised a way of dressing that worked for them and stuck with it. They practically invented cloning, at least in matters of art.
Actually, as a text on the wall informs, Greek women had three basic outfits to choose from: the chiton, a plain chemise, worn floor-length; the peplos, a chemise with a deep overhang of cloth to the waist; and the himation, a large cloak, similar to the Roman toga, that could be draped in many ways. The show's modern dresses offer variations on these prototypes, which are sometimes used in combination.
With few exceptions, the modern examples are drawn from the world of high fashion. There is an etymological justification for this focus: the word classical initially referred to languages associated with upper-class society, as opposed to vernacular forms of expression. The haute couture approach, however, has some major disadvantages. By excluding athletic attire, for example, it fails to connect contemporary values to the pivotal place the Greeks granted to the human body.
The omission of that specialized form of sportswear, the ballet costume, is especially glaring. Balanchine's use of practice clothes in Stravinsky ballets like "Agon" was the supreme expression of classical temperament in the 20th century. Noguchi's designs for "Orpheus" and Karinska's costumes for "Chaconne" would have made handsome additions.
The omission of modern folk or tribal dress is also an unfortunate lapse. You would never guess from looking at this show that there are still parts of the world -- Turkey, for one -- where people commonly wear tunics of beautifully pleated muslin. (I used to wear those shirts many years ago, when I was a student and had hair as long as a Cretan bull dancer, and believe me, they opened doors.) Universality is often held to be a leading characteristic of classical art. True or not, that notion is rendered more convincing by an inclusive approach.
The show's sensibility is rooted in 1930's Hollywood. Lighting for black-and-white movies conferred on Hollywood stars a monochromatic allure similar to that attained by Greek buildings and sculptures after centuries of weathering had stripped away their original polychrome finishes. It is a Depression-era mood that we encounter here -- in other words, an atmosphere oddly parallel to that of present-day America, where most consumers are compelled by economic necessity to livetheir dreams vicariously on Oscar night. 
The show's black-and-white poster presents the archetypal image: evening pajamas designed by Madeleine Vionnet in 1931. As photographed by George Hoyningen-Huene, the outfit is black and white and silver all over, as if cut from the screen implanted in many a young 1930's shopgirl's head. Miuccia Prada updates the siren image in a pleated silk jersey dress designed in 2002.
Fluidity is a leading motif: a metaphor for women's freedom. Madame Gres, Pierre Balmain and Edward Molyneux define the Venus genre with long gowns possibly conceived in a marriage between a column and the sea.
The galleries are packed with showstoppers. May I present Venus and Juno? Designed by Christian Dior in 1949, evening gowns named for those two Olympians typify a strain of Surrealist Baroque. The "Venus" dress, named after Botticelli's depiction of Aphrodite, is festooned with immense oyster shells made from opalescent sequins and rhinestones. The wide skirt of Dior's "Junon" dress is encrusted with overlapping, wavelike scales made of blue, green and rust sequins. Thank you, ladies.
The show's peak is a white wedding dress designed by Yohji Yamamoto in 1998. Evidently conceived for a bride who wanted to have her cake and be it, too, this is a wild froth of a dress, again a Baroque manifestation, barely held together by coils of silk braid. Slice?
Alexander McQueen's "shipwreck dress" of 2003 is a study in beige silk crepe tatters. As if urban life were analogous to rough weather, the dress ends in torn and shredded hems. This could be the winding shroud for Isadora Duncan, made from remnants of the scarf that broke her neck when one trailing end got caught in the wheel of the roadster she was riding in.
These four very different dresses highlight the show's most authentically classical theme: the Greeks' passion for discovering unifying patterns in the world around them. Greek physicians practiced a method called the doctrine of signatures: since the form of walnuts resembled that of brains, the nut was commonly prescribed for mental disorders.
Waves pass through hair, fabric and water. Greek art emphasized the similarity between them. In the Dior gowns, sea shells, scales and wavelets morph into one another, as if by design or Surrealist transformation. This is what poetry meant to the Greeks: the art of weaving connective tissue.
"Goddess" can be seen as one big showcase of fashion signatures. Mariano Fortuny's early-20th-century pleated dresses wear the strongest personal sign. As familiar as they have become in recent decades, these gem-colored sheaths still powerfully evoke the mythical world of Marcel Proust.
You'd think it would become tiresome to review the repetition of pleats, harness bodices, columnar sheaths and other standard devices. But discovering the infinite variations on these motifs is as untiring as watching waves break on the sand.
In a famous essay, "The Greeks and Us," Auden urges his readers to judge civilization by "the degree of diversity attained and unity retained." Yet in modern civilization something like the reverse standard must be applied. Diversity is a given. Unity must be fought for. Unification is what Greece signified to modern Europeans, who did not lay eyes on the Acropolis until 1751.
To the modern mind, ancient Greece was first of all a symbol of nationalism. During the Greek war of independence from the Turks (and Islam), the need arose for a unifying myth of Western origins. The myth of our descent from the Greeks satisfied that need. (Until then, Rome was our official ancestor.)
The same myth was invoked to gloss over the social upheaval caused by the Industrial Revolution. Parallels could be drawn between the rationality of machine production and the refined economy of Greek art. Modern science, as Peter Gay has argued, is a kind of paganism, a form of nature worship. The Neo-Classical notion of timeless, universal aesthetic values derived from the view that cultural experience was subject to scientific law.
History and timelessness may be intellectually irreconcilable, but who cares if you're wearing Halston? Perhaps the last major designer to dedicate his career to fashioning a contemporary classical image, Halston is represented here by a trio of simple chiffon evening gowns that command the elegance of polychrome columns. Unpleated, the chiffon would gather into supple, flutelike folds when worn by bodies in motion, subtly transforming the Doric into the Ionic order.
Halston is my idea of a myth of origins. Norma Kamali is a strong contender, too. No one makes filminess look more desirable. Seen here, Ms. Kamali's diaphanous outfits lack the benefit of contrast with the stark gray concrete walls of her flagship store in New York. But they capture the odd fusion of innocence and eroticism on which the appeal of Arcadia is substantially based.
Tom Ford's do, too. At least the context of this show helps to clarify Mr. Ford's intentions as a designer, such as they are. Gucci, his fashion house, paid for this show, with additional support from Conde Nast Publications, and Mr. Ford's essays in goddess style put in cameo appearances here and there among groupings of dresses by other designers. Peek-a-boo, we see you, Tom!
Thus far, Mr. Ford's brilliance as a projector of images has outdazzled his talent for design. That isn't meant as criticism. What else does anyone want today besides an image? A new car? The Ford designs, represented by the clothes on view, may not bring on fainting spells. But they signal the most fertile of the directions the designer has set for himself.
Savagery and violence, the dark underside of classical restraint, are more than hinted at by Mr. Ford's deconstructed evening gown of brown silk chiffon designed in 2002 for Yves Saint Laurent Rive Gauche. A true classic, the dress appears tailored less for a nymph than for a maenad, an intoxicated celebrant of Dionysian rites.
We prettify spring, but for the ancients it was a time of violence, when new vegetation cracks the surface of the earth. It is difficult, now, for novelty to break through fashion's upper crust.

"Goddess" remains at the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212)535-7710, through Aug. 3.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A draped pale blue silk chiffon evening dress, left, designed by Pierre Balmain in 1957, and a white silk jersey dress designed by Madame Gres about 1965, both from "Goddess" at the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (Photographs by Karin Willis/Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E33); Top, Tom Ford's 2003 silk jersey gown for Gucci from "Goddess" at the Metropolitan Museum. Above, Christian Dior's 1949 "Junon" gown has wavelike layers of silk net embroidered with sequins. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORY (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); HAUTE COUTURE (75%); CLASSICS (72%) APPAREL; GREEK CIVILIZATION; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); COSTUME INSTITUTE (METROPOLITAN MUSEUM) 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%); GREECE (75%); EUROPE (70%); MEDITERRANEAN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



28 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Industry Index And Job Data Both Point ToWeakness 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1 

 BODY:
Manufacturing contracted in April for a second month, and the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits held close to a one-year high as the economy struggled to strengthen, two reports released today showed.
 The Institute for Supply Management said its manufacturing index fell to 45.4 from 46.2 in March, the first back-to-back readings below 50 since 18 consecutive months of below-50 readings ended in January 2002. A reading below 50 signals deteriorating business. 
 The slowdown has hurt the job market, and the Labor Department said there were 448,000 first-time jobless claims last week, exceeding 400,000 for an 11th consecutive week.
Consumer and business demand are not strong enough to increase hiring or production, prompting companies to rely on productivity gains to increase profits. That is a mix that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress on Wednesday might delay faster growth.
Companies "are making an all-out effort to limit payroll growth in order to improve profitability," said Geoffrey Somes, a senior economist at Fleet Bank in Boston. "That's good news for the bottom line but bad news for the labor market. That is the biggest risk" to the economy.
Productivity rose 1.6 percent at an annual rate in the first quarter, more than double the pace of the prior three months, the Labor Department said. Economists had expected a 2 percent increase. The gain, which matched the rise in first-quarter gross domestic product, shows the economy is being bolstered solely by productivity increases.
A fourth report showed that construction spending fell in March at the fastest rate since August as commercial building flagged amid the highest office vacancy in half a decade.
Construction declined 1 percent, to $868.5 billion at an annual rate after rising a revised 0.2 percent in February, the Commerce Department said. The last time construction dropped more was last June, when it fell 1.6 percent. Analysts had expected an increase of 0.2 percent.
The jobless claims of 448,000 fell from 461,000 the previous week, the highest since March 2002.
Economists had expected a reading of 47.2 in the factory index. The supply managers' group, based in Tempe, Ariz., surveys more than 400 companies in 20 industries.
The manufacturing report's new-orders component, which accounts for about a third of the overall index and is considered a leading indicator of future production, fell to 45.2 from 46.2 in March. An inventories index was 42.7 compared with 42.3, showing that inventories are being run down at a slower pace.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Productivity"Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses. 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Quarterly Change At Annual Rate1st qtr.: +1.6%4th qtr.: +0.73rd qtr.: +5.5 Graph tracks index output since 1998. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart: "Construction Spending"Total construction spending in billions of dollars at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. Monthly ChangeMarch: -1.0%Feb.: +0.2Jan.: +2.2 Graph tracks construction spending from October 2001 to March 2003. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); STATISTICS (87%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRODUCTIVITY; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



29 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Dropped 6.1% During April 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 1 

 BODY:
Auto sales for April improved on a sluggish first quarter, receiving a modest bump from a renewed incentive push by the Big Three, but were still below the strong levels of a year ago. 
 "When one considers the heavy incentives for the month, the sales levels are quite disappointing," said Domenic D. Martilotti, an analyst for Bear, Stearns. "Each iteration of this zero-percent-for-60-months push, there are clearly diminishing returns. So the question is, where do we go from here?" 
 April sales fell 6.1 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual selling rate of 16.44 million units, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank, a data tracking service. Sales for the month a year earlier came in at an annual pace of 17.3 million, a robust performance that made for a tough comparison. 
Still, many analysts expected better numbers from April because General Motors extended its zero percent offers from three years to five years on all of its vehicles except Hummers. G.M. said it was extending its five-year deals through May. Ford Motor and the Chrysler Group, a division of DaimlerChrysler, responded with similar deals last month.
There is also concern that consumers now take such largesse from Detroit for granted. 
"For the industry in general, I don't want to say demand is anemic, but it's disappointing given how much money they're spending," said Ronald A. Tadross, an analyst at Bank of America.
One bright spot was a slight production increase by Ford in the current quarter, somewhat offsetting previous cutbacks. 
Scott Hill, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein who tends to be bullish, said sales were "weaker than we expected" but added that the news was not a total negative -- a selling rate of 16.5 million is normally considered healthy, and it took place amid uncertain economic conditions. 
"People are focused on incentives losing their punch," Mr. Hill said. "It's not that the incentives aren't carrying the day, it's that they are trying to carry the load in a different environment, in one of increased weakness and pessimism."
Of the overall economic conditions, George Pipas, Ford's chief sales analyst, said "I liken it to a newborn calf. It's up, but it's a little wobbly at this point."
On the energy front, there was discouraging news for environmentalists. Sales of the biggest sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks rebounded strongly last month from weakness in the first quarter. Asian automakers were propelled by sometimes huge growth in sales of light trucks -- S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans -- with Honda's light truck sales soaring 55 percent. Passenger cars, which are more fuel efficient than light trucks, continue to fall below 50 percent of the market. 
In April, the industry's heaviest and most expensive offerings came noisily back. Sales of the Cadillac Escalade, for example, rose 18.6 percent last month but remain down 9.5 percent for the year. Ford's Lincoln Navigator also had its strongest sales month ever. 
"Utilities are not running out of steam," said Paul Ballew, G.M.'s chief sales analyst. 
Analysts view such trends positively because the Big Three make their automotive profits from S.U.V.'s and pickups. 
"We're pleased to see strong demand for our most profitable vehicles," Mr. Pipas said. "This is most evident in the sport utility category, which continues to outperform the industry."
Much of the month's results reinforced continuing competitive challenges. Based on daily selling rates, sales at G.M. fell 8.6 percent; at Ford, 6.6 percent; and DaimlerChrysler, including Mercedes-Benz, 10 percent, according to Autodata.
Toyota sales fell 0.9 percent, Honda sales rose 11.2 percent, Nissan fell 4.2 percent, and Hyundai sales rose 8.7 percent. BMW fell 3.3 percent; Volkswagen, including its Audi brand, fell 16 percent. 
Domestic automakers spent an average of $3,007 a vehicle in March to pay for incentives like rebates or free financing, compared with $1,612 by European carmakers and just $951 by Japanese manufacturers, according to Edmunds, which tracks auto industry trends.
It was G.M. that made zero percent deals prevalent after the Sept. 11 attacks with its Keep America Rolling promotion. But the industry had generally stepped back from five-year loans.
Mr. Ballew of G.M. called his company's results "solid" if "certainly not the surge we saw with Keep America Rolling in October 2001 or the Summer Drive last July and August," with similar deals.
Gary Dilts, Chrysler's senior vice president for sales, said, "The industry, in our judgment, after watching what happened to us and across the industry, was soft."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ford cars, trucks and minivans at a dealership in Paoli, Pa. April sales for the Big Three were below the strong levels of a year ago. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C5) Chart: "Auto Sales in April" ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States. Graph tracks number of light trucks and cars sold, seasonally adjusted, since October 2001. INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States. 2003Cars: 653,002Light trucks: 755,421Total: 1,408,423 2002Cars: 717,576Light trucks: 724,249Total: 1,441,825 CHANGE*Cars: -12.5%Light trucks: +0.3Total: -6.1 CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2002 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 155,722CHANGE*: -21.7MARKET SHARE: 23.9% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 105,889CHANGE*: -10.8MARKET SHARE: 16.2 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 84,103CHANGE*: -3.0MARKET SHARE: 12.9 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 70,513CHANGE*: -6.6MARKET SHARE: 10.8 Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 63,438CHANGE*: -8.3MARKET SHARE: 9.7 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 40,974CHANGE*: -4.3MARKET SHARE: 6.3 TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 68,999CHANGE: -8.4% Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 65,501CHANGE: +14.2 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 35,638CHANGE: +1.1 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 33,202CHANGE: +1.8 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 32,795CHANGE: -11.9 Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 30,539CHANGE: +31.6 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 30,188CHANGE: -13.3 Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 27,789CHANGE: -2.9 Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 26,026CHANGE: -13.9 Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 24,487CHANGE: +44.9 Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 22,663CHANGE: -10.5 Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 19,246CHANGE: +16.3 LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2002 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 241,241CHANGE*: +2.8%MARKET SHARE: 31.9% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 188,132CHANGE*: -3.8MARKET SHARE: 24.9 Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 141,587CHANGE*: -10.7MARKET SHARE: 18.7 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 67,681CHANGE*: +1.8MARKET SHARE: 9.0 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 47,270CHANGE*: +55.2MARKET SHARE: 6.3 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 19,995CHANGE*: -4.0MARKET SHARE: 2.7 BMW and Volkswagen sales are estimated. *Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Rover sales. SIncludes$ MercedesBenz sales. (Sources: Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (87%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MINIVANS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WARD'S AUTO INFO BANK; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; HONDA MOTOR CO; NISSAN MOTOR CO; HYUNDAI MOTOR CO; BAYERISCHE MOTORENWERKE AG; VOLKSWAGEN AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



30 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1710 words

PERSON: Paul Moore Jr. 

HEADLINE: Episcopal Bishop Paul Moore Jr., 83, Dies; Strong Voice on Social and Political Issues 

BYLINE:  By ARI L. GOLDMAN

 BODY:
Paul Moore Jr., the retired Episcopal bishop of New York who for more than a decade was the most formidable liberal Christian voice in the city, died yesterday at home in Greenwich Village. He was 83. 
 In recent months, the bishop had said that he was suffering from lung and brain cancer. 
 Bishop Moore spoke out against corporate greed, racism, military spending and for more assistance to the nation's poor, pursuing his political and social agenda in both the city and within the national Episcopal denomination. He was an early advocate of women's ordination and, in 1977, was the first Episcopal bishop to ordain a gay woman as an Episcopal priest. 
Serving from 1972 to 1989, he was the 13th Episcopal bishop of the Diocese of New York, which today covers about 65,000 Episcopalians in 203 congregations in Manhattan, the Bronx, Staten Island and the counties of Westchester, Dutchess, Orange, Putnam, Rockland, Sullivan and Ulster.
The numbers are small compared with the more influential Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, which covers roughly the same geographical territory. But the Episcopal church -- part of the worldwide Anglican tradition -- had long been one of the city's most visible denominations, in part because of its massive gothic cathedral in Upper Manhattan and because the church had traditionally been the home to some of the city's most prominent families, among them the Astors, DuPonts, Morgans, Vanderbilts, Mellons and Roosevelts. 
During his tenure, Bishop Moore transformed the seat of the diocese, the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, at 112th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, from a moribund backwater church to a place where peacocks roamed, orchestras performed, elephants lumbered, inner city youth found jobs and the homeless slept in supervised shelters. 
He opened the cathedral for rallies against racism and on behalf of nuclear disarmament. Some of his critics asserted that the bishop had used the church for political purposes, but Bishop Moore said that religion and progressive social policies were inexorably linked.
Bishop Moore argued for his agenda in the most Christian of terms, refusing to cede Biblical language to the Christian right. Although he retired as bishop in 1989, he continued to speak out, taking to the pulpit of his former church as recently as March 24, even as illness overtook him, to protest the war in Iraq.
"It appears we have two types of religion here," the bishop said, aiming his sharpest barbs at President Bush. "One is a solitary Texas politician who says, 'I talk to Jesus, and I am right.' The other involves millions of people of all faiths who disagree."
He added: "I think it is terrifying. I believe it will lead to a terrible crack in the whole culture as we have come to know it." 
Bishop Moore was unrepentant in his liberalism, even as many others, and the city as a whole, moved increasingly to the right in the 1980's. For example, he gave the invocation at the swearing-in ceremony for his friend Edward I. Koch as mayor in 1978 but within a short time was sparring with the mayor over the issue of housing.
Mr. Koch accused the bishop of being a "knee-jerk liberal"; Bishop Moore called the mayor's ideas about homelessness "naive and dangerous."
Bishop Moore also clashed with Cardinal John J. O'Connor, the late Roman Catholic archbishop of New York, over the issue of legal protection for homosexuals. In time, Cardinal O'Connor overshadowed Bishop Moore as the city's most outspoken Christian voice, though one that was far more conservative.
In 1986, Cardinal O'Connor opposed the city's gay rights legislation, which was adopted later that year.
Bishop Moore, however, said that it was "morally wrong" to be against equal rights for all citizens.
Bishop Moore later acknowledged that his rhetoric was strong, but added, "In this city you have to speak strongly to be heard."
Probably the most well-known example of Bishop Moore's proclivity to speak strongly came a decade earlier, in 1976, at the height of the city's fiscal crisis, when New York was staring at bankruptcy. In a fiery sermon from the pulpit of St. John the Divine on Easter Sunday that year, the bishop accused corporations that were abandoning the city of "betrayal," saying that they were perpetuating a cycle of unemployment, crime and economic decline. He likened them to "rats leaving a sinking ship."
"Look over your city and weep, for your city is dying," he said, echoing the biblical prophet Jeremiah. "In sections of the Bronx, Brooklyn and Harlem, great hulks of buildings stand abandoned and burned."
"We of the religious community will not stand by as this betrayal of the city takes place," he added to a congregation that included some of the city's captains of industry.
He laid down this charge: "Cut through the fog of statistics and see the moral decisions behind them. Be part of the rising, not the dying!"
While he became synonymous with liberal political views, Bishop Moore was a traditionalist when it came to church liturgy, representing those members of the Episcopal church who highly value the sacraments, above all the Lord's Supper.
"The Eucharist was at the very center of Paul's spirituality," said Dr. R. William Franklin, a friend of Bishop Moore's who now serves as the scholar in residence at St. John the Divine. "He loved the very ritualistic celebration of the Eucharist because it gave a sense of God's healing and liberating presence in the world. He made the liberating vision a political reality. It was something that people around him could touch."
Bishop Moore was married in 1944 to Jenny McKean, with whom he had nine children. She died in 1973. In 1975, Bishop Moore married Brenda Hughes, who died in 1999. He is survived by his children, Honor of Manhattan; Paul of Berkeley, Calif.; Adelia of Hartford; Rosemary of Brooklyn; George of Oaxaca, Mexico; Marian of Minneapolis; Daniel of Los Angeles; Susanna of Berkeley, Calif.; and Patience of Nashville; and 19 grandchildren.
Paul Moore's early life does not immediately suggest an affinity for the kinds of social issues that he would later champion. He wasborn on Nov. 15, 1919, in Morristown, N.J., to a family of wealth and prominence. His grandfather was one of the founders of Bankers Trust. His father was a good friend of Senator Prescott Bush, whose son, George H. W. Bush, and grandson, George W. Bush, would become United States presidents.
Paul Moore spent winters in Palm Beach, Fla., and summers on the Massachusetts shore. He once told an interviewer that he was virtually unaware of poverty until the family's chauffeured limousine passed bread lines during the Great Depression. His reaction, he recalled, was to hide on the floor of the limousine in shame.
He attended the St. Paul's prep school in Concord, N.H., then went to Yale. During World War II, while serving as Marine captain, he was seriously wounded on Guadalcanal by a bullet that narrowly missed his heart. For his service, he was awarded the Navy Cross, the Silver Star and the Purple Heart. He was discharged in 1945 and entered General Theological Seminary in New York to study for the ministry. He was ordained in 1949.
Standing 6 feet 4 -- something of a human rallying pole -- he became the consummate urban priest. His first parish was Grace Church Van Vorst in a run-down section of Jersey City. "We brought landlords to court," he recalled in an interview. "We integrated public housing. We made a lot of speeches and we held a lot of street demonstrations. We collected petitions against police brutality and did other stuff that wasn't so common in those days."
From Jersey City, he become dean of the Episcopal Cathedral in Indianapolis, where he served from 1957 to 1964. He was then appointed a bishop and served the Washington diocese. In his years in Washington, he picketed the White House, lectured Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey on the importance of protecting civil rights marchers in the South and organized a rock festival at the National Cathedral.
In 1970 he came to New York, serving first as suffragan bishop and, in 1972, as the diocese's bishop. One of his first appointments as bishop was to name the Rev. James Parks Morton as dean of St. John the Divine.
Together, the bishop and the dean went about the business of reviving the Episcopal cathedral, opening the 13-acre campus in Morningside Heights to different cultures, races, religions and the arts.
Worship at the cathedral, while at the core an Episcopal Mass, would sometimes incorporate Zen Buddhist meditations, African chants and Jewish klezmer music. Speakers from across the religious spectrum came there, from the Dalai Lama to the Rev. Jesse Jackson to Rabbi Marshall T. Meyer, the liberal Jewish leader who died in 1993.
The cathedral became the home to liturgical dance companies, a homeless shelter, a biblical garden -- complete with free-roaming peacocks -- and, for a time, the Big Apple Circus. For the cathedral's 100th anniversary, in 1986, Philippe Petit, the French aerialist, was named the artist in residence, and he performed high above the stone floor at the celebration.
Perhaps Bishop Moore's most dramatic decision was to resume building on the cathedral, which had ceased during World War II, when iron and steel were scarce because of the needs of the armed forces. He hired a master stonemason from England to train young residents of Morningside Heights, Harlem and Newark to work on finishing the cathedral.
Construction started in 1982 on an ambitious project that addressed many of the issues close to the bishop's heart -- employment, equal opportunity and job training -- but it was halted a few years later when financing ran out. The cathedral remains unfinished.
Some felt that Bishop Moore overreached in his stewardship of St. John the Divine, but he made no apologies.
"There are two historical images of the cathedral," he once said. "The English Cathedral is a thing of great beauty set apart on a hillside. You go there for quiet and peace and to withdraw from the world. The other image is the Italian or French model, where the cathedral is right smack bam in the middle of the city, with all its life and dirt and struggle. Ours combines both. We are a medieval cathedral for New York City."

GRAPHIC: Photos: During his tenure, Bishop Paul Moore Jr. led the transformation of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, 1989); Bishop Paul Moore Jr. (Librado Romero/The New York Times, 1972) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); CANCER (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); BRAIN CANCER (57%); LUNG CANCER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

CATEGORY: Religion 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



31 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: For the Rent Guidelines Board, It's Never Over, Especially the Shouting 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
At its most basic, the scene yesterday at the first public hearing this year of the New York City Rent Guidelines Board played out in much the way it has played out practically every year. The landlords said one thing. The tenants said the opposite. And the gallery of "season ticket holders," as the board's chairman has called the regulars in the audience, was in full-throated force, with one building owner yelling "Continue to lie!" at a tenant lawyer who was making a presentation.
 But if the roles had the sheen of familiarity, the script had a decidedly more urgent tone, because of the very real possibility that the board may approve the biggest rent increase in more than 20 years for the roughly one million apartments whose rents are regulated. 
 For the better part of the last decade, the rents in those apartments have inched up by a few percentage points each year. But this year, the landlords want increases of 17 to 24 percent because of escalating costs for property taxes, insurance and fuel. Yet the tenants do not want any increases -- and even suggest a decrease -- because of New York's anemic economy and skyrocketing unemployment.
Toss in the fact that the rent adjustments are being weighed against the backdrop of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's budget cuts and the lingering effects of the 9/11 terrorist attack, and the resulting cocktail is a volatile mix in which the two sides are further apart than usual.
Last week, the board released a report showing that the price index of operating costs -- a study that tries to provide a picture of landlord costs -- had climbed by 16.9 percent last year, the highest since 1980, when the index jumped by 17 percent. But tenants have criticized the report as incomplete and misleading, citing other board studies showing that landlords' incomes have increased steadily for many years.
"We've had a war, job losses and we've had hardship all around," said Timothy L. Collins, a lawyer and former executive director of the Rent Guidelines Board, who testified yesterday as an advocate for tenants. "To come in and ask for more is really unconscionable. It's un-American. We're all sharing the pain."
But Sharon Redhead, whose family owns five small apartment buildings in the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn, testified that there was only so much pain that landlords could absorb. Her insurance costs have climbed by 35 percent, she said. Taxes, by 22 percent. Fuel, by 70 percent. But at least her father, who is in his 60's, is doing all the repairs to save on maintenance.
"The economy is bad, and I do feel for the tenants, but there are some tenants who can afford" a rent increase of 20 or so percent, she said after her testimony.
There were no decisions yesterday or any hints of what the board might do when a preliminary vote is held on Monday night. But the chairman, Marvin Markus, did say that he did not support a rent freeze, or a double-digit increase.
After the preliminary vote, there will be one more public hearing on June 17 -- a 12-hour marathon that in years past has featured a menagerie of animated New Yorkers doing their theatrical best to persuade, persuade, persuade.
Then comes the final vote on June 19, in which the board will also tackle other subjects, like rent rates for hotels and single-room occupancy buildings, and possible rent increases on lower-priced apartments and for long-term tenants.
But until then, the board has a daunting and unpopular job to do.
"This year is much different," said Andrew Hoffman, vice president of Clarendon Management, who testified on behalf of landlords. "Poor Solomon doesn't want to be in your shoes right now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of the Rent Guidelines Board, left, heard gripes from landlords and tenants. "We're all sharing the pain," said Timothy L. Collins, far right, who spoke on the tenants' behalf. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



32 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Zeal for Suicide Bombing Reaches British Midlands 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, May 1 

 BODY:
The government today identified a suicide bomber who killed three people in an attack on a Tel Aviv nightclub on Wednesday and another would-be attacker as British citizens. The acknowledgment raised suggestions that militant British Muslims, previously associated with groups in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen and elsewhere,may have shifted their focus to the Middle East.
 Asif Hanif, 21, who died in the suicide attack, and Omar Khan Sharif, 27, an accomplice who reportedly escaped after failing to detonate his bomb, are the first Britons known to be prepared to kill themselves in the militant Islamic cause. 
 "We think that the terrorists had British passports, which is something especially sad," said Sherard Cowper-Coles, Britain's ambassador to Israel. 
As with other British Muslims who were found to have been fighting for the Taliban in Afghanistan or planning terrorist acts in Britain, Mr. Hanif and Mr. Sharif grew up in middle-class or blue-collar environments. That seemed to set them apart from the more typical image of suicide bombers molded by the hardships of Gaza or the West Bank.
Taz Hanif, the brother of Mr. Hanif, described him as a "big teddy bear" who had not been previously involved in militant Islam. 
"He wasn't that sort of person," Taz Hanif said in an interview with The Sun newspaper. "Anyone who knew him would tell you."
Possibly significantly for British and Israeli investigators trying to pin down the movements of the two Britons, Mr. Hanif said his brother had traveled to Damascus, Syria, to study Arabic. 
"I spoke to him two weeks ago and he said he was all right and still at university," Mr. Hanif said. The family lived in a modest row house in the west London suburb of Hounslow, an area with a large Asian population.
Hamas, which has a headquarters in Damascus, and the Aksa Martyrs Brigades, a group connected to Yasir Arafat's Fatah movement, took responsibility for the suicide bombing.
Blocked by a security guard, the bomber detonated his device at the door of Mike's Place, a jazz bar next door to the United States Embassy that is a popular night spot for American and British tourists as well as Israelis.
Mr. Sharif, the man identified as a failed suicide bomber, came from a relatively wealthy family in the English Midlands town of Derby, one of a string of places including Leicester, Birmingham and Tipton that have been associated with Islamic militancy among young people.
Mr. Sharif was said by neighbors to have been educated at a private school and to have come from a Westernized family before going to London to attend university. In London, however, he adopted a more strict approach to his religion and returned to Derby with what neighbors described in British press interviews as an Arab wife who dressed in a full-length burka.
"We just can't understand what happened to Omar," a neighbor, Hamida Akhtar, 54, was quoted as saying. "Only English was spoken in his home. They were gentle people. I can't think what made Omar change."
Mr. Sharif's life seemed on the surface to resemble that of Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, a son of wealthy parents who attended a private school before going on to the London School of Economics. There he dropped out and resurfaced in 1994 in the kidnapping of three Britons and an American in India. Last year, he was sentenced to death in Pakistan for the kidnapping and murder of Daniel Pearl. 
Militant Muslims say that such transformations are inspired by a broad sense among some British Muslims that their faith is being oppressed in other parts of the world.
"The feeling for jihad at the current time, in light of Iraq and Afghanistan and the continuing intifada in Palestine, is very hot within the Muslim community," Anjem Choudhary, a spokesman for Al Muhajiroun, an Islamic group, said in an interview with BBC radio.
Al Muhajiroun is one of several groups accused by British authorities of advocating Islamic militancy. But it was only after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on New York City and Washington that British authorities began to take action against such figures as Abu Qatada, a cleric of Palestinian descent active in west London, and Abu Hamza, an Egyptian-born north London cleric who is accused in the United States of helping Al Qaeda.
Several Britons are still detained at the United States prison camp at Guantanamo Bay after being caught fighting for the Taliban in Afghanistan. Other Britons have been accused of terror attacks in Yemen, and Richard Reid, the so-called shoe bomber, was jailed for life in the United States earlier this year for trying to detonate explosives hidden in his shoe on a trans-Atlantic flight. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE BOMBINGS (93%); TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); HAMAS (89%); AL FATAH (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; ISLAM 

ORGANIZATION: ABU NIDAL ORGANIZATION (59%); AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (59%); HAMAS (59%) ;HAMAS (TERRORIST GROUP); AKSA MARTYRS BRIGADE (ORGN); FATAH REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; HANIF, ASIF; SHARIF, OMAR KHAN; ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ENGLAND (79%) ISRAEL; TEL AVIV (ISRAEL); GREAT BRITAIN; GAZA STRIP; WEST BANK; SYRIA; DAMASCUS (SYRIA)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



33 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
S.E.C. Chairman Troubled By Remarks From Purcell
Morgan Stanley's efforts to play down the firm's role in the Wall Street research scandal appeared to backfire, as William H. Donaldson, left, the chairman of the S.E.C., released a blistering letter addressed to the firm's chief executive.
 Mr. Donaldson said he was "deeply troubled" by comments by Philip J. Purcell of Morgan Stanley. He warned that Morgan could face further legal action if it continued to deny having acted badly in the research scandal. Page A1. 

Both Sides Claim Victory in Mall War
A judge's ruling in Simon Property Group's legal battle to take over Taubman Centers did little to resolve the dispute. Both sides claimed victory after the decision. C4.

Music Industry and Students Settle
Four college students have agreed to pay the recording industry's trade association $12,000 to $17,000 each over the next three years to settle federal lawsuits that accused them of making thousands of songs available online for illegal downloading. A22.

House Leaders Propose a Tax Plan
House Republican leaders agreed to abandon President Bush's plan to eliminate all taxes on dividends, forging instead a new proposal that would reduce the taxes on both dividends and capital gains. A26.

Tests Show Head Injuries in S.U.V.'s
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said that results from its side-impact crash test showed that passengers in 2002 models of the Daewoo Nubira, Suzuki Grand Vitara and Mitsubishi Montero Sport would have suffered a high likelihood of severe or fatal head injuries. C5.

Revenue Climbs at Walt Disney
Revenue rose 8 percent at the Walt Disney Company, but net income fell as lackluster theme park attendance continued to drag down earnings. C5.

A Smaller Loss for USA Interactive
Shares of USA Interactive jumped to a 52-week high after the company reported a narrower first-quarter loss. Revenue increased 38 percent, to $1.39 billion, as its Ticketmaster, Expedia and Hotels.com businesses showed good growth. USA also wrote down the value of its investment in Vivendi Universal Entertainment by $243.3 million. C6.

Small Audience for Brown TV Show
Tina Brown's first foray into television generated more talk than ratings. The CNBC program, "Topic A ," was watched by an audience of only 74,000 people Wednesday. C2.

Manufacturing Contracted in April
Manufacturing contracted in April, and 448,000 Americans filed for unemployment benefits for the first time last week. C5.

Stocks Mixed on Earnings Reports
A series of disappointing economic reports pressured Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 25.84 points, to 8,454.25, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dipped 0.62 point, to 916.30. The Nasdaq composite index rose 8.25 points, to 1,472.56. C6.

Quarterly Net Triples at Exxon
Profits at Exxon Mobil more than tripled in the first quarter as a result of higher prices for crude oil and natural gas. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,454.25 down 25.84Nasdaq composite -- 1,472.56 up 8.2510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.84% unch.The euro -- $1,1238 up 0.0059The dollar -- 118.54 yen down 0.35 Graph: "TODAY" shows unemployment figures and factory orders. UnemploymentApril figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: 5.9% Graph tracks figures from October to March. Factory OrdersMarch figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.2% Graph tracks orders from September to February. Graph tracks the daily closing price of USA Interactive shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); RECORD REVENUES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (86%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); HEAD INJURIES (70%); JUDGES (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (69%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (68%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (65%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (65%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (53%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); WALT DISNEY CO (81%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (57%); HOTELS.COM LP (52%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); DIS (NYSE) (81%); SPG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (52%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



34 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Suit Settled For Students Downloading Music Online 

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
Settling lawsuits intended to strike fear in the hearts of college students who regularly download music over the Internet without paying for it, four students have agreed to pay the recording industry's trade association $12,000 to $17,000 each over the course of the next three years. 
 The suits were the first effort by the recording industry to take direct legal action against students in its efforts to stamp out Internet piracy, which has spiraled on college campuses despite the demise of Napster, the service that set off a frenzy of online music trading three years ago. 
 The suits charged the students with operating "mini-Napsters" on their campus computer networks and illegally supplying popular music for other students to copy.
The amount of the settlements came to far less than the potential billions of dollars originally asked for in the lawsuits, filed separately last month by the Recording Industry Association of America. The association said it was seeking to send a warning to students, rather than reap financial damages. 
The settlements announced yesterday, which require an initial payment by each of the four students and annual installments through 2006, were seen largely as a slap on the wrist by some school officials and lawyers involved in the case. The students also agreed not to knowingly infringe the record label's copyrights using the Internet and to shut down the services that provided the network search tools.
"This seemed like a fair amount," said Matt Oppenheim, the association's senior vice president for business and legal affairs. "It seemed like an amount that was enough to deter both these students and others in the future."
But in a statement, Daniel Peng, a sophomore at Princeton University who was one of the students who were sued, denied any wrongdoing.
"I don't believe that I did anything wrong," Mr. Peng said. "I am glad that the case has been settled amicably, and I hope that for the sake of artists, the larger issues can soon be resolved."
To the dismay of the record labels, copying music over the Internet without paying for it has become an accepted way of life for college students. Many justify this by blaming the record industry for charging too much for CD's, not paying artists enough, or not providing acceptable legal alternatives. 
The lawsuits are part of an increasingly aggressive effort by the record labels to tell Internet file-traders on campus and beyond that no matter what they may think of the industry's practices, their actions are illegal. Earlier this week, the recording industry association devised copyright infringement warnings that pop up on the computer screens of people who are providing music files for others to copy. 
In addition to Mr. Peng, the complaints charged Joseph Nievelt, a student at Michigan Technological University, and Aaron Sherman and Jesse Jordan, both students at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, with directly infringing copyrights by providing dozens of songs from popular artists to other students to copy. 
Since the lawsuits were filed, the record industry association says that more than 18 campus file-sharing networks like those run by the four students have been pulled down. Many college administrators are also increasing enforcement efforts. This week, the New Jersey Institute of Technology banned the use of file-sharing software. 
But the lawsuits, which were widely discussed on college campuses, were seen by some students and school officials as taking unfair advantage of people who could not afford to defend themselves. 
"This suit is about the industry's attempt to intimidate Internet users and instill fear of lawsuits against users of the Internet, particularly students," said Howard Ende, a lawyer from Drinker, Biddle & Reath who is representing Mr. Peng. "They need to find some other way to protect their economic interests than bringing suits against bright creative young people."
Andy Jordan, whose son Jesse will have to pay $12,000 to the recording association, said his son's Web site, which allowed students on campus to type in a search term and click on a link to copy the files residing on other students' computers, was much more like the popular Web search engine Google than Napster.
"The lawsuit was bogus," said Mr. Jordan, of Oceanside, N.Y., who is unemployed. "Jesse's worked very hard for three years, every summer, every weekend, to save up money for college. Now we're in a bind. How is he going to have enough to pay for next year?" 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the settlement of a lawsuit against four college students accused of having created Web sites to allow the illegal downloading of music referred imprecisely to the views of Andy Jordan, whose son Jesse is to pay $12,000 to the Recording Industry Association of America under the agreement. Mr. Jordan contends that his son's Web site only allowed people to view the names of music files that other students were willing to share, but did not help them copy those files.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (93%); INTERNET AUDIO (92%); LITIGATION (92%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); DAMAGES (78%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); COPYRIGHT (76%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COPYRIGHT LAW (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%) MUSIC; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINES (PENALTIES); COMPUTER SOFTWARE; ROYALTIES 

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%) RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSN OF AMERICA 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY; PENG, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



35 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Marketers extend their holiday efforts to a Mexican celebration and even to Lent.

BYLINE:  By Courtney Kane 

 BODY:
MARKETERS are rarely shy about injecting commercialism into the holidays, whether it is Christmas, Mother's Day or Valentine's Day. But a selling season based around Cinco de Mayo? 
 Turning Cinco de Mayo, in this country once a regional Southwestern celebration of Mexican pride, into a two-week bacchanal of beer, tequila, chips and salsa is the latest attempt by marketers to create selling opportunities where none previously existed. 
 Long John Silver's, the seafood restaurant chain, decided that Lent, when Roman Catholics do not eat meat on Fridays, is a perfect time to advertise its fish menu. Toys "R" Us heralded a two-week pre-Easter sale this year with a significant marketing campaign. In January, Office Depot ran new television and radio advertising for a back-to-business effort, just as many companies have back-to-school sales. 
"I think marketers are so desperate" to connect to consumers in these economic times that the company-created selling season will only proliferate, said Pamela N. Danziger, president of Unity Marketing in Stevens, Pa., and the author of "Why People Buy Things They Don't Need."
But Dr. Robert Passikoff, president of Brand Keys in New York, a brand and customer loyalty consulting company, said: "Even as artificial as it may be, it creates a real opportunity. Generally speaking, these kinds of created events are done for a short-term jump and some sort of profitability, and generally speaking they get it."
Cinco de Mayo is a real holiday, although it does not commemorate the occasion many people presume. It is not Mexican Independence Day; it commemorates Mexico's military triumph over the French in the Battle of Puebla on May 5, 1862.
Now, the Cinco de Mayo holiday is considered by marketers as the spring version of St. Patrick's Day: an opportune time to sell beer, liquor and snacks. For Corona beer, which is imported from Mexico, the date has become the cornerstone of the brand's marketing plan, bringing big returns for the two-week promotional window, selling more than an estimated 100 million bottles.
"It gives us an opportunity as being the No. 1 import in the No. 1 group of Mexican brands in the U.S., to really get a jump-start on the summer beer-selling season, which typically had been Memorial Day," said Bill Hackett, president of Barton Beers in Chicago. Barton, along with the Gambrinus Company, shares importing duties for the Modelo Group, which includes Mexican beers like Corona Extra and Corona Light, Modelo Especial and Pacifico.
For the third year, Corona is backing its Cinco splash with a $5 million national campaign of television, radio, print, outdoor and other promotions. One television spot, created by the Richards Group in Dallas, parodies St. Patrick's Day. The spot features a man wandering along the Irish countryside into a pub where the locals "celebrate their favorite holiday" only to find a Cinco de Mayo party in full swing. 
"The character and personality of the Corona brand is very much tongue-in-cheek," said Don Mann, marketing general manager for the Modelo brands at Gambrinus in San Antonio. "It's lighthearted, it's oriented at fun and escapism so that's what fits our brand and that's the nature of our advertising." 
The Hispanic consumer is increasingly coveted by marketers. By 2005, Hispanics will be the largest ethnic youth population. So it is not surprising that other Mexican beers, including Labatt USA's Tecate and Dos Equis, along with domestic and import brands like Budweiser from Anheuser-Busch and Heineken, the No. 2 import from Heineken USA, also have promotions. A regional promotion by Heineken encourages revelers to "Save a Lime, Open a Heineken."
The advertising campaigns do not please everyone. "I don't see anything philanthropic or as an acknowledgment of diversity; I think its strictly about market share," said Bill Gallegos, project director with the Trauma Foundation in Los Angeles, who is also a leader in Latinos and Latinas for Health Justice. He added that "a lot of the ways that they market these alcohol products are really offensive to us."
Other products that hype the holiday are soda and chips. For instance, the Pepsi and Frito-Lay divisions of PepsiCo advertised for a Cinco de Mayo promotion as part of a campaign called the Power of One.
But not all marketers, even those with obvious hooks, think that Cinco de Mayo is a good opportunity. 
Julie Craven, a spokeswoman for the Hormel Food Corporation in Austin, Minn., which sells the Chi-Chi's brand of salsa and picante sauces, said the company decided to skip the holiday this year, because it was already too "cluttered." Instead, the company decided to advertise heavily around "March Madness," when consumers tend to entertain at home.
Other marketers appreciate the lift they get from newfangled holiday seasons. "We're in business 52 weeks of the year," said Warren Kornblum, executive vice president and chief marketing officer for Toys "R" Us in Paramus, N.J. "Clearly the period from November through the holiday season is the primary one, but Easter, birthdays, graduations -- those kinds of things in a child's life and a family's life are important. Our belief is that Toys "R" Us should be there for them."
Both the Long John's and Toys "R" Us events proved to be successful. 
Mike Baker, chief marketing officer at Long John Silver's in Louisville, Ky., part of Yum Brands Inc., said that the Lent program was one of its best ever. Sales were up 9 percent from a year ago.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barton Beers, an importer of the Corona brand, sees opportunity in marketing for Cinco de Mayo, a celebration with Mexican roots. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EASTER SEASON (90%); CINCO DE MAYO (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CHRISTMAS (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); SEAFOOD (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (75%); BRANDING (75%); RADIO ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING PLAN (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); RELIGION (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); BRAND EQUITY (66%) EASTER AND HOLY WEEK; ADVERTISING; HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS 

COMPANY: GAMBRINUS CO (61%); TOYS 'R' US INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (61%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (57%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (57%)

PERSON: JAMES T HACKETT (51%) KANE, COURTNEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) MEXICO

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



36 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: BUDGETS IN CRISIS: ALBANY; 
Legislators Pass Spending Bills as Pataki Whets Veto Ax

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 1 

 BODY:
In another day of high drama, Gov. George E. Pataki held his third news conference in Albany in 28 hours to lambaste the Legislature for being fiscally irresponsible, even as the lawmakers continued to pass spending bills in their single-minded drive toward adopting a state budget.
 Less than an hour later, the Republican leader in the State Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, asserted that the governor was putting out fictitious data, another sign of the growing strain between the state's two most powerful Republicans. 
 Under a self-imposed deadline, the state's two top legislative leaders have vowed to pass the entire spending plan, including the taxes and new revenues to pay for it, by the end of Friday. That then would throw the budget ball back into the governor's court, where he has promised to receive it with veto pen in hand. 
The deadline for the state budget passed a month ago, on April 1.
The governor said the Legislature's budget would destroy the state's credit rating and cause huge gaps, of $1.5 billion this year and a cumulative $13 billion in the succeeding two years.
"Instead of putting this fiscal crisis behind us," Mr. Pataki said, "they are making it worse in the future."
The governor continued to threaten veto action. Meanwhile, he tried to discredit the Legislature's numbers, saying they were false and would force future generations of New Yorkers to pay the price. Mr. Pataki asserted that the budget being voted on was imbalanced, adding far more spending than the Legislature has acknowledged and overestimating the revenues it brings in to the state Treasury.
Specifically, Mr. Pataki said the Legislature was adding $2.4 billion in new spending in this fiscal year, about $500 million more than the $1.9 billion the state's two top legislative leaders have reported. His aides also said that the Legislature's new taxes would bring in about $1.1 billion less than legislative leaders anticipated in the current fiscal year.
Carole E. Stone, the director of the state's Division of the Budget, said that under the Legislature's plan, spending would increase by 4.3 percent over last year's budget, tipping it above the rate of inflation. She vigorously disputed the Legislature's assertion that their spending increase would come in at just under the rate of inflation, a claim that legislative leaders continued to make today.
The stage is now set for a political battle the likes of which has not been seen in the state since the early 1980's. The governor will have 10 days to veto lines of the Legislature's budget, and already lawmakers of both parties are girding for that fight.
Later in the day, at his own news conference, Senator Bruno disputed the numbers released by the administration of his fellow Republican, Mr. Pataki.
"You know, you all know the statement that 'figures don't lie'?" Mr. Bruno said, responding to the assertions by Mr. Pataki and Ms. Stone that the Legislature's budget is flawed.
"But you know the rest of it," he continued. "Do you? Well, print it."
The part of the common colloquialism that Mr. Bruno left out is: "Liars figure."
At another point, Mr. Bruno said it was necessary to provide a history lesson, saying that it was he who first described the magnitude of the state's financial problems last October, a month before Mr. Pataki's re-election. At that time, Mr. Bruno predicted that the state would face a $10 billion gap while the governor and Ms. Stone said they saw no problem at all.
"We have always been more accurate in our numbers," Mr. Bruno said. "I was more accurate last year, unfortunately, in terms of where the state was, and we're more accurate."
On all sides, anger seemed to seethe just below the surface. With charges and countercharges being leveled about whose numbers were right, even veteran budget watchdogs and observers of Albany politics said it was hard to tell who was right.
"To me, the dueling numbers, the dueling budgets, makes it crystal clear the need for an independent budget office," said Blair Horner, the legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group. "This is the problem we have every year. I mean, who do you believe? You need an umpire to call the fiscal balls and strikes."
Standing fast with Mr. Bruno today was Sheldon Silver, the Democratic leader of the State Assembly. He said the Legislature's budget -- a $93.1 billion plan, according to the Senate -- was balanced.
"I think it's rather sad that the governor or his personnel has issued directives that amount to nothing more than a temper tantrum," Mr. Silver said.
The Legislature continued to make progress on passing the package of bills that make up the state budget. Today an appropriation bill for health and mental hygiene passed in the Assembly by a vote of 102 to 45, with no Republicans voting in favor of it. The State Senate voted 59 to 1, with Raymond Meier, a Republican from Utica, voting against it.
The Legislature restored $1.1 billion of the $1.25 billion the governor had proposed cutting from health care, said Richard N. Gottfried, a Democratic assemblyman from Manhattan and the chairman of the Health Committee.
"On top of that, there is several hundred million in federal Medicaid money that will now come back to New York," Mr. Gottfried said. About $230 million of the Medicaid money will go to the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, he said.
The city will also benefit from the Legislature's rejection of a proposal by Mr. Pataki to have the state pick up more of the costs of prescription drugs in return for local governments' picking up a greater share of hospital bills. That so-called swap would have cost New York City $292 million this and next year, Mr. Gottfried said.
A bill to be passed Friday would require a monthly detailed accounting of the monies flowing into and out of the various accounts that pay for programs under the state's Health Care Reform Act, a pot of money separate from the state budget the governor now controls.
State budget officials insisted that the Legislature had badly overestimated how much money could be collected this year from an income tax surcharge on the wealthy.
Legislative leaders had counted on about $1.6 billion from the surcharge, but state officials said the state would probably only collect about $700 million because it would take time to change the withholding tax tables. Legislative aides, however, said the tax tables could be changed to collect the money in this fiscal year.
Mr. Pataki's aides also dispute how much the quarter-penny rise in state sales tax would bring in. They said the Legislature had dedicated about $170 million of the sales tax revenue this year to pay for refinancing old bonds the state floated to help the city during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, leaving them $281 million short of the $460 million the Legislature is counting on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki says the Legislature's numbers are inaccurate. (Stewart Cairns for The New York Times) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Different Ways of Counting"In the often murky world of Albany budget making, it is not uncommon for legislative leaders and Gov. George E. Pataki to count differently. Those differences are especially important this year as the Legislature passes its own budget over the threat of the governor's veto. Here are a few of the differences of opinion on what the budget will raise in new revenues and how much the programs the Legislature has restored will cost: New Revenues ALL NEW REVENUESLEGISLATURE: $3.2 billionGOV. PATAKI: $1.3 billion Income tax surchargeLEGISLATURE: 1.6 billionGOV. PATAKI: 700 million Increase sales tax by 1/4 centLEGISLATURE: 463 millionGOV. PATAKI: 361 million Gas and cigarette tax on Indian landsLEGISLATURE: 164 millionGOV. PATAKI: 60 million Video lottery machines at harness tracksLEGISLATURE: 150 millionGOV. PATAKI: 40 million New Spending ALL NEW SPENDINGLEGISLATURE: $1.9 billionGOV. PATAKI: $2.4 billion Restoration of Medicaid and health care cuts minus other savingsLEGISLATURE: 782 millionGOV. PATAKI: 1 billion Restoration of cuts to education aidLEGISLATURE: 698 millionGOV. PATAKI: 755 million TOTAL SPENDINGLEGISLATURE: $93.1 billion (2.2% rise)GOV. PATAKI: $94.8 billion (4.3% rise) (Sources: State Legislature; Office of the Governor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



37 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2757 words

HEADLINE: Fledgling Festival Seeks an Identity 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
This is the year that counts.
 Last May the TriBeCa Film Festival was new. After the trauma of Sept. 11, the festival was an attempt to rejuvenate Lower Manhattan, and was therefore a heartening sell. It had the glamour of the actor Robert De Niro behind it and the financial backing of American Express. 
 The festival, which opens tonight, still has those advantages. It continues to attract films from major studios like Fox, Warner Brothers and Paramount. But this year the festival must also prove itself to be an institution with staying power. To do so, some in the film industry say it needs to carve out a clear identity, distinct from festivals like Sundance and Toronto, where movie professionals network and peddle their films. 
New York already has an abundance of film festivals -- the New Directors/New Films series, the New York International Independent Film and Video Festival, the New York International Documentary Festival, the Brooklyn International Film Festival, the New York International Children's Film Festival, the New York City Independent Horror Film Festival.
Inevitably, the TriBeCa festival's main rival is considered to be the New York Film Festival, a prestigious event that presents public screenings of about 25 films by established and up-and-coming directors each autumn.
"They really have to decide what it is they're going to do," said Richard Pena, program director of the Film Society of Lincoln Center, which produces the New York Film Festival. "The first year, they traded on Downtown a lot. Will that be enough of a reason to come back? I hope so, but it will be a test."
Last year, the TriBeCa festival was assembled in 120 days by Mr. De Niro and the producer Jane Rosenthal, who created the TriBeCa Productions film development company in 1988, and Craig M. Hatkoff, a former Wall Street executive who is married to Ms. Rosenthal. The first festival screened 150 films during five days and drew 150,000 people. It also presented the premieres of some Hollywood films, including "Star Wars: Episode II -- Attack of the Clones."
This year the festival is bigger and longer. It includes two festivals with several special events, all lasting 10 days and spread across Lower Manhattan. The main festival offers more than 200 films, as well as panel discussions and filmmaker appearances. The family festival has been expanded to two weekends from one.
There are also many films in competition, from shorts like "Live From Shiva's Dance Floor," directed by Richard Linklater, about Lower Manhattan after the terrorist attacks, to documentaries like "Sumo East and West," directed by Ferne Pearlstein, about the insular Japanese tradition of sumo wrestling. 
The schedule, available online at www.tribecafilmfestival.org, includes a wide range of films from all over the world. The festival's broader reach this year is a testament to the work of the new executive director, Peter Scarlet. He ran the San Francisco International Film Festival for 19 years and traveled extensively last year to find films to screen in TriBeCa. 
Mr. Scarlet tried to include New York and United States premieres. As an example, he cited his choice of two films from Afghanistan that have never been seen in the West. "The breadth of the program and its eclecticism, I hope, will be exciting and revivifying," he said.
He also tried to make amends to New York filmmakers, many of whom felt slighted last year, by including their work. Bill Brand, a TriBeCa-based filmmaker, criticized the festival last year as overly Hollywood. He has a film in the festival this year called "I'm a Pilot Like You."
"They're going so far out of their way to relate to the community and to be broad-minded that it's really hard to be the neighborhood curmudgeon," Mr. Brand said. 
The festival's executives say it is too early for the event to define itself. They dismiss questions about what distinguishes the TriBeCa Film Festival from its older siblings. "We're still trying to figure out what we are," Ms. Rosenthal said. "It's like asking a child at 2, 'What are you going to be when you grow up?' "
At the moment, the festival appears to be a professionally ambitious event for people in the film industry as well as a populist gathering for casual moviegoers. "We're a bit schizophrenic because we do want to be perceived as a serious film festival," Ms. Rosenthal said. "But it is also about having an online vote for the best love story ever filmed in New York."
Mr. Scarlet says he is making a special effort to lure ordinary filmgoers. "There are too many cookie-cutter festivals," he said. "I wanted this one to be something that reached out beyond people who go to festivals, reached out beyond film buffs, made some effort to connect what is so powerful about movies to a broader audience."
Despite the multitude of festivals already in New York, the TriBeCa organizers say there is room for one more. "I've wanted to create this sort of event in TriBeCa for more than a decade," Mr. De Niro said at a City Hall news conference announcing this year's festival. "To have finally done it makes me incredibly proud. This neighborhood is my home, I'm committed to it and that's what this festival is all about."
Over time it may become increasingly important for the TriBeCa Film Festival to have a raison d'etre beyond its location. For now, however, Ms. Rosenthal said, Downtown is enough: "The reason we started the film festival was really to help the economic redevelopment of Lower Manhattan very specifically, to help give our neighborhood a new memory."
Last year's festival brought more than $10 million into the area, a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said. 
"It was really about making sure the hardware store, the pizza man -- everyone -- could get over this hump," Ms. Rosenthal said. 
Because the city's economy is still weak, she said, building local businesses remains the festival's main motive. Filmgoers attending screenings at TriBeCa theaters are more likely to shop and dine in the neighborhood.
"What we're trying to do is to get the moviegoing public into the community," she said.
Given some of this year's events, attention is likely to be paid. There will be a 1950's-style simulated drive-in -- without the driving -- on Pier 25 in Hudson River Park, for example, where 3,000 people can sit on benches to watch an oversize screen. The free three-day event, which requires tickets, will display vintage cars of the era and introduce the new convertibles of its sponsor, General Motors.
The first drive-in screening, on Thursday, is "When Harry Met Sally . . . ," which won the festival's online contest for the most romantic film set in New York City. On May 9 the drive-in will show "Diner," starring Kevin Bacon, Mickey Rourke and Daniel Stern, with Mr. Bacon and the director Barry Levinson expected to attend. It will end on May 10 with a sing-along for the movie "Grease."
The main festival opens on Tuesday with the premiere of "Down With Love," a romantic comedy starring Renee Zellweger and Ewan McGregor that has good pre-festival buzz. On May 10, "The In-Laws," starring Michael Douglas and Albert Brooks, will have its premiere. The festival closes on May 11 with the New York premiere of "The Italian Job," about a heist in Venice, starring Mark Wahlberg, Charlize Theron and Edward Norton.
This year's family festival opens tonight and includes the premiere of the latest "Pokemon" movie, "Pokemon Heroes," as well as a street fair and workshops.
Among the actors, directors and writers scheduled to participate in panel discussions are Nathan Lane, Helen Hunt, Paul Rudd, Patricia Clarkson, Kenneth Lonergan and the "South Park" creators, Trey Parker and Matt Stone. 
In a disturbing development that brought additional attention to the event, Lyric Benson, the actress featured in an American Express advertisement for the festival, was shot by her ex-fiance and then died a day later, on April 25. American Express has pulled the print advertisements but is leaving the billboards up, in keeping with her family's wishes.
Prada is collaborating with the festival and will be the host of several screenings and conversations with filmmakers at its SoHo store and at the TriBeCa Performing Arts Center. There will also be an MTV concert -- which this year includes VH1 and Infinity Broadcasting -- featuring Norah Jones and the rap artists Roots. 
"I think in your sophomore endeavors, no matter what they are, you've got a lot to learn," Ms. Rosenthal said. "You've got a lot of mistakes to correct from the year before, you've got to try not to be too cocky. You have to grow, but not too fast."

The Time in TriBeCa: Film O'Clock

The 2003 TriBeCa Film Festival, with more than 200 new and vintage features, documentaries and short films, as well as panel discussions and workshops, will run from Tuesday through May 11 at various locations in TriBeCa. A family festival, with screenings, workshops and other special events, opens tonight with "The Lizzie McGuire Movie." There will also be a street fair on May 10 from 10 a.m to 6 p.m. on Greenwich Street between Duane and Hubert Streets. A free drive-in movie site on Pier 25, at the Hudson River and North Moore Street, will show films from Thursday through May 10 at 8 p.m.; tickets are free and will be available beginning Tuesday at the TriBeCa Film Festival office, 387 Greenwich Street, and at J&R Music on Park Row two days before each screening. On May 9 a free concert with Norah Jones and the Roots, along with other performers, is to take place in Battery Park at 7 p.m.; tickets are required and can be obtained free by calling (212) 846-2596. Screening locations are the United Artists Battery Park Theaters at Embassy Suites, 102 North End Avenue, at Vesey Street; TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Bureau of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street; Schimmel Center for the Arts, Pace University, 3 Spruce Street, between Park Row and Gold Street; the Screening Room, 54 Varick Street at Canal Street; Prada SoHo, 575 Broadway, at Prince Street; TriBeCa Grand, 2 Avenue of the Americas, at White Street; and Integrated Studios, 449 Washington Street, at Desbrosses Street. Screening tickets are $10; $7 for students; $8 for those living south of Canal Street. Special events like panel discussions range from $12 to $30. A Black Filmmakers Foundation Program will feature nine American films at the United Artists Battery Park Theaters: "Boomerang," "Boyz N the Hood," "Do the Right Thing," "Eve's Bayou," "Hollywood Shuffle," "House Party," "Menace II Society," "New Jack City" and "She's Gotta Have It." Festival information is available at (866) 265-8499 or (866) 941-3378; www.tribecafilmfestival.org. A list of some highlights (foreign films are noted by country):

Today

"THE LIZZIE McGUIRE MOVIE" (2003), directed by Jim Fall. UA Battery Park, 7 and 7:30 p.m.

Tomorrow

"SHAOLIN SOCCER" (Hong Kong, 2002), directed by Stephen Chow, UA Battery Park, 12:45 p.m. Also May 9 at 10 p.m. and May 10 at 2 p.m., same location.

Sunday

"DADDY DAY CARE" (2003), directed by Steve Carr, UA Battery Park, 2:30 p.m.
"POKEMON HEROES" (Japan, 2003), directed by Kunihiko Yuyama, UA Battery Park, 12:15 p.m. Also May 11 at 1 p.m., same location.

Tuesday

"DO THE RIGHT THING" (1989), directed by Spike Lee, UA Battery Park, 9 p.m.
"DOWN WITH LOVE" (2003), directed by Peyton Reed, TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m.; by invitation only.
"SHE'S GOTTA HAVE IT" (1986), directed by Spike Lee, UA Battery Park, 6:30 p.m.

Wednesday

"BALLROOM" (France, 2002), directed by Patrick Mario Bernard, Pierre Trividic and Xavier Brillat, UA Battery Park, 6 p.m. Also May 10 at 10 a.m. at Screening Room 2.
"GIRLHOOD" (2002), directed by Liz Garbus, UA Battery Park, 9 p.m. Also May 9 at 1 p.m., same location.
"HEAVEN'S PATH" (Iran, 2002), directed by Mahmoud Behraznia , UA Battery Park, 7:30 p.m. Also May 10 at 2 p.m. at Screening Room 1.
"I'M A PILOT LIKE YOU" (2000), directed by Bill Brand and Ruth Hardinger, Screening Room 2, 9:30 p.m. Also Thursday at 4:30 p.m., same location.
"MC 5: A TRUE TESTIMONIAL" (2002), directed by David C. Thomas, UA Battery Park, 10:45 p.m. Also May 9 at 3:45 p.m., same location.
"NILOFAR IN THE RAIN" (Afghanistan/France, 2003), directed by Homayoun Karimpour, UA Battery Park, 10:15 p.m. Also May 9 at 4 p.m. at the TriBeCa Performing Arts Center.
"STEP INTO LIQUID" (2003), directed by Dana Brown, UA Battery Park, 9 p.m. Also Thursday at 8 p.m. at Prada SoHo and May 9 at 10:30 p.m. at UA Battery Park.
"SUMO EAST AND WEST," (2003), directed by Ferne Pearlstein, UA Battery Park, 3:30 p.m. Also May 9 at 7 p.m.
"THIS SO-CALLED DISASTER" (2003), directed by Michael Almereyda, UA Battery Park, 7:30 p.m. Also May 10 at 10 p.m., same location.

Thursday

"A NORMAL LIFE" (United States/Kosovo, 2003), directed by Elizabeth Chai Vasarhelyi and Hugo Berkeley, UA Battery Park, 6:15 p.m. Also May 11 at 1 p.m., same location.
"BOOKSTORE" (Tunisia, 2002), directed by Nawfel Sahed-Ettaba, UA Battery Park, 1:45 p.m. Also May 11 at 2:30 p.m. at Screening Room 1.
"CARLO GIULIANI, A BOY" (Italy, 2002), directed by Francesca Comencini, UA Battery Park, 4 p.m. Also May 9 at 9:30 p.m., same location.
"CHINESE COFFEE" (2002), directed by Al Pacino, TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, 6 p.m. "An Evening of 'Chinese Coffee' and Conversation With Al Pacino."
"GHOSTLIGHT" (2002), directed by Christopher Herrmann, UA Battery Park, 6:30 p.m. Also May 9 at 8:15 p.m. and May 11 at 11 a.m., same location; and May 10 at 8 p.m., Prada SoHo.
"HOLLYWOOD SHUFFLE" (1987), directed by Robert Townsend, UA Battery Park, 4:30 p.m.
"HOUSE PARTY" (1990), directed by Reginald Hudlin, UA Battery Park, 10:45 p.m.
"LIVE FROM SHIVA'S DANCE FLOOR" (2002), directed by Richard Linklater, Screening Room 2, 12:30 p.m. Also May 9 at 3 p.m., same location.
"MENACE II SOCIETY" (1993), directed by Allen and Albert Hughes, UA Battery Park, 10:15 p.m.
"PREY FOR ROCK 'N' ROLL" (2003), directed by Alex Steyermark, UA Battery Park, midnight. Also May 9 at 11 p.m., same location.
"WHEN HARRY MET SALLY . . . " (1989), directed by Rob Reiner, Pier 25, 8 p.m. Voted most romantic film in the competition "In Love, In New York."
"WOMEN'S PRISON" (Iran, 2002), directed by Manijeh Hekmat, UA Battery Park, 7:45 p.m. Also May 11 at 4 p.m., same location.

May 9

"A BOY'S LIFE" (2002), directed by Rory Kennedy, UA Battery Park, 8 p.m. Also May 10 at 3:30 p.m., same location.
"BOYZ N THE HOOD" (1991), directed by John Singleton, UA Battery Park, 9:45 p.m.
"BOOMERANG" (1992), directed by Reginald Hudlin, UA Battery Park, 10:30 p.m.
"THE CEDAR BAR" (United States, 2002), directed by Alfred Leslie, TriBeCa Grand, 1 p.m. Also May 10 at 9:30 p.m. at Screening Room 2.
"DINER" (1982), directed by Barry Levinson, who will introduce the film, Pier 25, 8 p.m.
"EVE'S BAYOU" (1997), directed by Kasi Lemmons, UA Battery Park, 6:15 p.m.
"FIRE DANCER" (Afghanistan/United States, 2002), directed by Jawed Wassel, UA Battery Park, 7 p.m. Also May 11 at 9:30 a.m.
"KEEPING TIME: THE LIFE, MUSIC AND PHOTOGRAPHS OF MILT HINTON" (2002), directed by David G. Berger, Holly Maxson and Kate Hirson, UA Battery Park, 9 p.m. Also May 11 at 4 p.m. at Integrated Studios.
"KILL THE POOR" (2002), by Alan Taylor, UA Battery Park, 9:30 p.m. Also May 10 at 1 p.m. and May 11 at 12:30 p.m., same location.
"NEW JACK CITY" (1991), directed by Mario Van Peebles, UA Battery Park, 11 p.m.
"THE SPANISH APARTMENT" (France, 2002), directed by Cedric Klapisch, UA Battery Park, 6:30 p.m. Also May 11 at 12:15 p.m., same location.

May 10

"AILEEN: LIFE AND DEATH OF A SERIAL KILLER" (Britain, 2003), directed by Nick Broomfield and Joan Churchill, UA Battery Park, 8:30 p.m. Also May 11 at 1 p.m., same location.
"DIRTY PRETTY FRIENDS" (Britain, 2002), directed by Stephen Frears, UA Battery Park, 7 p.m.
"GREASE" (1978), directed by Randal Kleiser, Pier 25, 8 p.m.
"LOOKING FOR RICHARD" (1996), directed by Al Pacino, UA Battery Park, 10 a.m.
"STYLE WARS/STYLE WARS REVISITED" (1982), directed by Tony Silver, UA Battery Park, 10:30 p.m. Also May 11 at 11:30 a.m., Screening Room 1.
"MONDAYS IN THE SUN" (Spain/France/Italy, 2002), directed by Fernando Len de Aranoa, Pace University, 6 p.m.
"SWEET SIXTEEN" (Britain, 2002), directed by Ken Loach, UA Battery Park, 10 p.m. Also May 11, 2:45 p.m., same location.
"THE IN-LAWS" (2003), directed by Andrew Fleming, TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. By invitation only.

May 11

"THE ITALIAN JOB" (2003), directed by F. Gary Gray, TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, 4 p.m.; by invitation only.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Scarlet, the director of the TriBeCa Film Festival, and Jane Rosenthal, one of its founders. (Evan Agostini/Getty Images); Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan in "When Harry Met Sally . . . " (1989). (Castle Rock Entertainment)(pg. E26); Robert De Niro, a founder of the TriBeCa Film Festival. (Associated Press)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); FESTIVALS (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); HORROR FILMS (73%); HIJACKING (65%); MARTIAL ARTS (63%); WRESTLING (60%); AIRLINES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) MOTION PICTURES; TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL (NYC); TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); CANNES INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL; SUNDANCE FILM FESTIVAL (PARK CITY, UTAH) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (89%) DENIRO, ROBERT; SCARLET, PETER; ROSENTHAL, JANE; POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; TRIBECA (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



38 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The Acid Test 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There is, alas, only one Eliot Spitzer. And while you want to stand up and cheer when Mr. Spitzer, New York's attorney general, wins another round against malefactors of great wealth, his side -- our side, unless you happen to be a corporate insider -- is losing the war.
 On Monday, thanks mainly to Mr. Spitzer, a group of investment banks paid $1.4 billion to settle charges that their stock analysts had been shilling for corporate clients. This was, however, a mere slap on the wrist. And it's increasingly obvious that neither the investment bankers nor corporate evildoers in general are feeling chastened. 
 Indeed, last week Stanley O'Neal, the chief executive of Merrill Lynch, wrote an op-ed article caricaturing the likes of Mr. Spitzer -- though without naming him -- as enemies of capitalism who teach investors that "if they lose money in the market they're automatically entitled to be compensated." By the way, Henry Blodget -- the analyst whose internal e-mail famously used a scatological term to describe a stock he was publicly touting, and who was permanently banned from the industry under Monday's settlement -- worked for Merrill Lynch. 
Mr. Spitzer's scathing reply, addressed to "Mr. C.E.O.," is a classic. ("Indeed, you did not want to tolerate risk. Because what you did was shift the risk to unknowing investors while you got the fees up front.") But it's revealing that Mr. O'Neal felt empowered to write that piece in the first place. Like the New York Stock Exchange, which tried to appoint Citigroup's Sanford Weill to its board -- Mr. Weill is now forbidden to talk to his own company's analysts unless a lawyer is present -- Mr. O'Neal overreached. But he clearly knows which way the wind is blowing.
And it's not just investment bankers: corporate insiders across America are feeling their oats. Consider the executives at American Airlines, who paid themselves big bonuses and secretly set up a special trust to secure their own pensions, even while demanding pay cuts from their workers to save the company. Well, why not? Trust funds protecting executive pensions even when ordinary workers' pension plans are underfunded, and hefty "retention" bonuses for executives of near-bankrupt companies, are all the rage these days.
Warren Buffett has called C.E.O. compensation the "acid test" for reform. Between 1970 and 2001, in an orgy of mutual back-scratching by C.E.O.'s and their boards, median pay among the top 100 executives soared from 35 times that of the average worker to more than 500 times as much. So what happened in 2002, as unemployment rose, wages failed to keep up with prices and stocks declined -- and stories of corporate malfeasance filled the news? Nothing. O.K., not exactly nothing: some of the huge options grants at the top went away, reducing the average among the top 100. But according to Fortune, which put a pinstripe-clothed pig on its cover, median pay among top executives rose another 14 percent. 
Last summer it seemed, briefly, as if the torrent of scandals -- and the revelations about how closely some of our politicians were tied to scandal-ridden companies -- would bring about a public backlash against corporate malfeasance. But then the topic largely vanished from the news, driven out by reports about Iraq's nuclear weapons program and all that. And after the midterm elections, which put apologists for corporate insiders back in control of all the relevant Congressional committees, we might as well have had the sirens sound the all-clear. Only Mr. Spitzer still has both the inclination and the power to make trouble.
I also wonder about the demonstration effect. I don't want to sound like those Clinton-haters who attributed every immoral act in America to the president's bad example: Bill Clinton didn't invent sex, and the Bush administration didn't invent greed. But when insiders at major corporations see top officials getting away with it -- moving unscathed between stints as crony capitalists and high office or even, as in the case of Richard Perle, playing both roles at once -- they have to feel that old rules no longer apply, and that they can get away with even more self-dealing than before. 
In the end the corruption of our corporate system will bring retribution; even if political action never comes, investors will eventually lose faith and put their money elsewhere. But right now the bad guys, though they lose an occasional battle, are winning the war. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); BONDS (71%); BOARD CHANGES (68%); ETHICS (65%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ETHICS; FINES (PENALTIES); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; INSIDER TRADING; RESEARCH; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS COS; CITIGROUP INC; CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP; LEHMAN BROTHERS; MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC; MORGAN STANLEY; SALOMON SMITH BARNEY; UBS WARBURG; US BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); STAN O'NEAL (79%); SANDY WEILL (56%); WARREN BUFFETT (56%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%) ;SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN); KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) ; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



39 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: A Little Bit of a Peace Plan 

BYLINE:  By Ephraim Sneh; Ephraim Sneh, chairman of the Knesset subcommittee on defense planning and policy, is a former member of the Israeli cabinet.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
The plan for Israeli-Palestinian peace, known as the road map, cannot be allowed to fail. The alternatives are too frightening. Failure would most likely lead to the collapse of the cabinet of Mahmoud Abbas, the new Palestinian prime minister, giving Hamas the upper hand on the Palestinian street. As a result, those in Israel who have claimed that there are no moderate Palestinians with whom to negotiate will be vindicated. 
 We can guess what might happen next: another round of terrorism and violence that will make it even more difficult to have meaningful Israeli-Palestinian dialogue. 
 The road map's success is crucial. But putting it in place will not be easy. Those who would like to sabotage it are determined and ruthless. For this reason, it's vital that we find a way to make concrete progress immediately. And the best way to do that is through a quick interim accord -- a pilot project for the peace process.
The Gaza Strip is the most appropriate place for such an experiment. This mini-road map -- "Pilot Gaza" -- would have three consecutive stages. 
First, the Palestinian government would be given full access and power to act in the Gaza Strip. Second, to improve living standards, all economic and infrastructure projects there --including the United States-financed desalination project and the Karni industrial complex -- would be resumed and steps would be taken to allow more workers to enter Israel and to facilitate the export of goods from Gaza. Third, if the Palestinian government could show, within one year, that it had dismantled terrorist organizations in Gaza, stopped incitement and imposed law and order there, then Israel would evacuate its settlements and withdraw its troops. 
The assessment that terrorism was effectively suppressed and that conditions for Israel's withdrawal were met would have to be unanimously validated by representatives from the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations.
While the aim of the road map is the creation of a viable, independent Palestinian state by 2005, the scope of this state's sovereignty and its geographic boundaries are, as yet, not specific enough. But unless Abu Mazen, as Mr. Abbas is commonly known, is able to present to the Palestinians a satisfactory and attainable destination for the road map, he will find it difficult to gain the popular support he needs to curb terrorism effectively.
The new Palestinian government may be tempted to stop terrorism through a tacit agreement with Hamas and Islamic Jihad instead of dismantling them. Such an approach would merely postpone the inevitable showdown over who will emerge as the dominant force in Palestinian society -- Fatah or Hamas. So long as the question of Palestinian leadership hangs in the air, violence will continue. Israelis will feel threatened, and thus the Israeli government will not be able to make the hard concessions required for peace.
The success of Pilot Gaza would accelerate efforts to put in place the road map. It would also reduce violence in other parts of the Palestinian territories, help the residents of Gaza return to normal life and allow the Palestinian Authority to show the world it can govern effectively. Such success would demonstrate that an agreement based on joint antiterrorism measures, economic cooperation and the establishment of a Palestinian state alongside Israel, can be achieved -- not just on a map, but in reality. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); HAMAS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); AL FATAH (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); POLITICS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); TRENDS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%); RELIGION (50%) PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (58%) PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%) SNEH, EPHRAIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%) ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



40 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: The $550 Billion Question: Will Jobs Follow Tax Cuts? 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Not wanting to be perceived as ignoring the economy in the aftermath of war, President Bush has been coaxing Congress to avoid a "little bitty tax relief package" and instead take drastic action. The administration's sales pitch is simple: pass at least $550 billion of the president's proposed tax cuts and fiscal initiatives, and more than one million new jobs will be added to the nation's payrolls -- virtually all of them by the next election.
 But the creation of those one million jobs might not be a sure thing, even if all of the administration's recommendations become law. The state of the economy -- including any action taken by the Federal Reserve, whose chairman said on Wednesday that the economy was already on its way to stronger growth -- could determine the extent of the plan's success. And economists have begun to question some of the assumptions underlying that estimate of a million new jobs. 
 Without knowing all the ingredients and the timing of the $550 billion fiscal package, economists outside the White House have been unable to estimate how many jobs it would produce. According to a senior administration official, the job-creation forecast is based on a Keynesian model of the economy in which tax cuts increase employment. Cutting taxes on dividends would account for about a third of the new jobs, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Rob Nichols, a Treasury Department spokesman, said that many of the other 700,000 jobs would come from accelerating the tax rate reductions Congress agreed to in 2001. 
It is not clear how much of the acceleration will survive Congressional debate. And not everyone thinks moving the tax cuts forward will make such a big difference.
Because the cuts were already scheduled two years ago, the effect of making them arrive a couple of years earlier could be minimal, said James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J. P. Morgan Chase.
Though the accelerated cuts would allow people to keep more of their incomes in the short term, they might not prompt consumers and small-business owners to make many changes in their spending and hiring plans. Most of the impact, Mr. Glassman explained, would have already occurred. The effect "sort of happens upfront," he said, adding, "People know what's coming."
Mr. Glassman's point relies on a tenet of economic theory that has been a frequent refrain among the administration's top economists -- that permanent changes in taxes affect people's behavior more than short-term or temporary changes.
R. Glenn Hubbard, who testified before Congress in January as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, put it this way: "As taxpayers realize that their long-term disposable income has risen, their spending plans will rise, as well. By contrast, tax policy based on temporary changes to tax rates, or one-time tax rebates, has rarely worked as advertised."
The White House may be shifting its emphasis as the political debate about taxes heats up. But there is some disagreement inside the administration about whether the state of the economy could influence the effectiveness of tax cuts.
In an interview this week, Richard H. Clarida, the Treasury's assistant secretary for economic policy, said that the economy's starting point would not influence the plan's success. The spark it provided -- which economists like Mr. Clarida call the "delta" -- would be the same, regardless of the situation, he asserted.
Yet in an interview in January, Peter R. Fisher, the under secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance, said the effectiveness of the White House plan could change with the times.
At the time, Mr. Fisher said the economy's performance was as likely to diminish the effect of the White House's plan as to enhance it. There was a chance of about 20 percent, he said, that the economy would manage only weak growth reminiscent of Europe or Japan. Under those conditions, Mr. Fisher said -- and with no intervention by the Fed -- the plan might create 1.5 million jobs or more. If that were to occur, he said, "we'll be glad we did this."
But there was also a 20 percent chance, Mr. Fisher said, that the economy would recover strongly, possibly leading the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates. In that situation of robust growth, he said, the plan might create fewer than one millionextra jobs.
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Fisher said, "From where we are right now, I still see a rather wide range of impact on both sides."
The possibility of a smaller impact from the White House's policies became particularly germane on Wednesday, when Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Fed, testified before Congress. He predicted that the economy would perform "noticeably better" in the second half of this year than it has in the recent past. 
Whether or not the economy's performance prompts the Fed to raise interest rates, Mr. Glassman said he did not expect the White House's package to lead directly to job creation any time soon. "I don't think there's any tax measure that can be done to help a guy who doesn't have a job," he said. "The question is what they can do to speed up the growth rate."
Indeed, if job creation alone were the administration's goal, it would have selected an expensive recipe.
According to estimates by Allen Sinai, who is chief executive of Decision Economics and has advised the last three Republican administrations, the president's original plan, which called for $726 billion in tax cuts and fiscal initiatives, would have cost about $146 billion for the 18 months starting in July. The White House forecast that the plan would create 1.4 million jobs during that period, at a resulting cost of about $100,000 per job.
"If one were only looking at job growth itself for that period of time, it would sound expensive," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management. "But to the extent there were longer-term effects, and those jobs persist for a period of time and generate additional spending, there is a much longer-term return."
John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, has also sought to emphasize the long view. In a Congressional hearing in February, Representative Bill Thomas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, asked Mr. Snow if he preferred investing federal money in economic stimulus or long-term growth.
"I would strongly come down on the side of long-term growth," Mr. Snow answered. Later in the session, when asked how he perceived the White House's plan, he added, "I don't look at it in terms of being a short-term stimulus package."
That may be just as well. In the short term, even if everything goes the administration's way, the economy's performance could still fall short of what Americans became accustomed to in the 1990's. With a slightly better economic trend and close to one million new jobs, the labor market in the months leading up to November 2004 might look about the same as it did in the months before President Bush's father lost the White House in 1992.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Job Gains, and Losses"The economy is enduring its worst spell of job losses since the first Bush administration. Graph tracks jobs added or lost over the preceding 18 months, measured in millions, since 1983. (Source: calculated from Bureau of Labor Statistics figures)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); ALTMAN, DANIEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



41 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: KABUL; 
U.S. Declares Major Combat in Afghanistan to Be Over

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, May 1 

 BODY:
The United States declared today that major combat operations were over in Afghanistan, a step aimed largely at encouraging more nations to join the international reconstruction effort here.
 The announcement, made at a news conference here by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, is likely to have little practical effect on the 8,000 American soldiers who have been here for 18 months. 
 Most of these forces have already begun reconstruction efforts and are still conducting sweeps in search of pockets of militants, particularly along the border with Pakistan. An additional 5,500 international peacekeepers are policing the capital here. 
Politically, however, the formal transition to stability and reconstruction missions from combat operations is expected to open the door for many aid organizations, particularly in Europe, that had balked at sending troops, supplies or other assistance while the focus was on the American-led fight against Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters. 
"What's different now is that we can shift our weight," Mr. Rumsfeld told reporters. "A significantly larger part of our effort can go in that direction." 
The timing of the announcement coincided with President Bush's declaration tonight to shift the emphasis in Iraq to reconstruction from combat after six weeks there, compared with 18 months here. 
Mr. Rumsfeld said it had taken longer for a smaller force to root out elusive Qaeda terrorists than for the military to trounce the Iraqi armed forces, but he suggested that Afghanistan could be a laboratory for Iraqi reconstruction efforts. This is Mr. Rumsfeld's third trip to Afghanistan since Sept. 11, 2001, and he praised the progress he had witnessed. 
On the 10-minute drive from the city's airport to Mr. Karzai's palace, bustling stalls selling eggs, fresh meat, vegetables and other services lined the main road, which hummed with cars, buses and taxis. 
Mr. Karzai and the commander of American forces in Afghanistan, Lt. Gen. Daniel K. McNeill, have been pressing Washington for months for this transition, so as to attract international contributions.
Large new reconstruction projects like rebuilding the road between Kabul and Kandahar in the south would give Mr. Karzai a big political boost and energize the flagging Afghan economy, officials said. 
"I advocated this earlier," General McNeill said in an interview. "Now there's simply no reason why the international community can't take bolder decisions on reconstruction." 
The shift from full-fledged combat to establishing stability has actually been under way for months. In secure parts of the country, several hundred military civil affairs experts have built schools and dug wells. International aid workers are also in the country, but many say threats to security inside Afghanistan prevent them from reaching many needy communities. 
Frustrated at the slow pace of rebuilding the country, the Pentagon last fall decided to use civil affairs teams to take reconstruction efforts to 8 to 10 turbulent regions. The teams have a total of $12 million for projects they oversee, and they hire local contractors to do the work. 
Three teams are operating now -- in Gardez, Bamian and Kunduz -- but General McNeill said only Italy had until now volunteered to help with the program. 
Security remains dicey in parts of the country, although General McNeill said the situation was steadily improving. Foreign aid workers have been the targets of nearly daily attacks. Last Friday, two American soldiers were killed and four others wounded in a daytime clash along the eastern border.
Much of the problem is that the border with Pakistan is porous and that the Pakistani authorities are limited in how aggressively they can patrol the largely autonomous tribal regions where local leaders are openly sympathetic toward the Taliban and Al Qaeda.
Today, Pakistan's President said Osama bin Laden might be alive and hidden in the tribal areas, Reuters reported.
When asked about Pakistani cooperation, General McNeill said, "We haven't gone as far and as fast as we'd like." He added, however, that Pakistan has seized 450 militants in the campaign against terror. 
Mr. Rumsfeld spent much of his weeklong trip in the region assessing how United States forces and bases in the Persian Gulf could be reduced or rearranged to take account of the fall of Saddam Hussein. 
But there is no immediate end in sight for the 8,000 American troops here, at least not until summer 2004, when 9,000 to 12,000 Afghan National Army soldiers are expected to be sent around the country. 
Mr. Rumsfeld visited the national army's training center here, chatting with Afghan soldiers and officers as well as their American and British trainers. The program got off to a bumpy start last year when many recruits left before basic training was even completed, complaining of homesickness and the paltry $30 a month the United States was paying them. 
The program has since picked up momentum, American officials said, partly because of better recruiting to ensure that the mix of soldiers is more representative of the country's ethnic groups. "They've performed extremely well," said Maj. Gen. Karl Eikenberry of the Army, the chief American security coordinator here. 
Some Afghan soldiers are already joining American forces on patrol and on specific missions. But American commanders acknowledge that they still have a long way to go before they feel confident enough to turn Afghanistan's security over to the Afghans. 
Security was tight today for the meeting between Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Karzai at the National Palace, a compound of stone buildings, some of which date back 600 years. American security personnel said Mr. Karzai was a virtual prisoner of his headquarters, rarely venturing out to mingle with his countrymen, although he did join a parade in downtown Kabul a couple of days ago. 
When asked about his inability to travel around his own country safely, Mr. Karzai joked to reporters, "I think I can move much freer than most other heads of state do in their countries."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Secretary Rumsfeld and President Hamid Karzai at a news conference in Kabul. They are hoping for a flow of international reconstruction aid.; An Afghan mujahedeen guarded an approach to Kabul yesterday as security was tightened for a visit by Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld. (Photographs by Sherwin Crasto/Reuters) Map of Afghanistan highlighting Kabul: Street life in Kabul is humming, but security is still shaky. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FOOD CHARITIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); AL-QAEDA (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SCHMITT, ERIC; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); KARZAI, HAMID (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (97%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN; KABUL (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



42 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: The Tax Food Chain; 
Misguided Cuts in Washington

 BODY:
The political dichotomy is breathtaking: as state and local politicians struggle with deepening deficits and rising taxes, President Bush plays the fiscal Nero, the virtuoso fiddler for ever more tax cuts. If the Washington wing of the G.O.P. is deaf to the cries of pain from the nation's statehouses, surely it must hear the measured warning from Alan Greenspan, the nation's economic guru, that new tax cuts are definitely not needed now. They will probably harm the economy, not help it, he cautions, compounding the Republicans' feckless deficit spending while pushing up the national debt along with interest rates. 
 But, no, the detaxation mania continues apace as House and Senate leaders press toward a Memorial Day deadline that will be a rendezvous with foolhardiness. By then, they hope to enact a Bush tax cut and spending plan adding $2.7 trillion in deficits to a coming decade of red ink -- this only two years after the first Bush tax cuts helped wipe out an anticipated $5 trillion surplus. Not so coincidentally, Congress will have to raise the $6.4 trillion debt ceiling immediately to help pay for borrowing that is likely to last even longer than the easy careers of our detaxation politicians. 
 The most feverish concern discernible right now among Republican leaders is not the fate of the emergency unemployment benefits that are due to expire this month, affecting 3.9 million Americans. It is the preservation of as much as possible in the president's disastrous dividend tax-cut plan. A pitifully small group of Republican resisters is holding out, demanding $200 billion less in an agenda that could still eventually top $1 trillion in tax cuts.
Cutting the dividends tax may make some of Mr. Bush's key supporters happy, but there are two things it really will not do: juice up the economy or significantly reduce most taxpayers' total bills as the burden shifts downward. The pending Bush tax cuts willcost the states at least $64 billion more over 10 years, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a private watchdog group. The federal government's failure to help localities pay for critical services during a slumping economy has sent state and municipal taxes soaring. And although the president is selling his cuts as a fast job-creating stimulus, it is hard to find many serious economists who agree, particularly when it comes to the dividends tax. Economy.com, a private forecasting specialist, estimates that the dividend cut will mean very little in comparison with the instant bang for the buck that would come from an extension of jobless benefits and an infusion of emergency aid to the states. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEBT CEILING (75%); DIVIDENDS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); BONDS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



43 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: House Republicans Retreat From Ending Dividend Tax 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1 

 BODY:
House Republican leaders agreed today to abandon President Bush's plan to eliminate all taxes on dividends, forging instead a plan to reduce the taxes on both dividends and capital gains.
 The plan, developed by Bill Thomas of California, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, would lower the tax on dividends to equal that on capital gains, and would lower the gains tax for most investors to 15 percent from 20 percent. 
 House leaders acknowledged that today's plan was born of the Senate's refusal to accept Mr. Bush's full tax package. It won lukewarm support from the White House, where a spokeswoman called it a "positive step forward" while saying that Mr. Bush still preferred the full tax cut. 
Senate leaders also promised to get more of the administration's tax cut in the final plan. Bill Frist of Tennessee, the Senate majority leader, said he preferred even a temporary repeal of the dividend tax to the House approach, in the hopes that the repeal would later be made permanent.
White House officials said they might also pursue that approach and were focusing on increasing the dividend tax cut in an eventual conference committee of the two chambers. But several Republican officials in the Senate, speaking on condition that they not be identified, said that with today's decision in the House, the full dividend tax cut had probably died.
Other than the dividend plan, the House proposal would generally follow the White House tax package. It would speed up the reduction in the top tax brackets and make it retroactive to January 2003, and it would expand the number of people who would fall into the bottom two brackets. The tax credit for each child, now $600, would rise to $1,000 through 2005, and the standard deduction for married couples would increase to twice the individual deduction. Businesses would also get increased write-offs for expenses and investments.
The tax plan will be taken up by the Ways and Means Committee on Tuesday, Mr. Thomas said, and the House will vote on it next Friday.
Reduction of the capital gains tax has long been a Republican goal, but it had not been raised in this year's budget talks because the president chose in January to focus on eliminating the dividend tax, which he says is unfair because it taxes the same corporate profits twice. The administration has clung to its dividend tax proposal, which would cost about $390 billion, even as the Senate agreed last month to an overall tax cut of $350 billion. Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said today that he still wanted the full cut, but he had a few kind words for the House plan.
"It's a big step in the right direction," Mr. Snow said between meetings on Capitol Hill. "But I'd like to see it go further."
Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans also said he wanted the dividend tax eliminated, and Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, a leading advocate of the president's plan in the Senate, said that lowering the capital gains rate, the amount paid when profitable investments are sold, would not have enough effect in a depressed stock market.
"There aren't a whole lot of capital gains in the market right now to benefit from a reduction in the capital gains tax," Mr. Santorum said.
Congress last lowered the capital gains tax in 1997, from 28 percent, and the issue has been a flash point between the parties. Democrats, citing figures showing that the top 2 percent of taxpayers have three-quarters of all capital gains, said today that Republicans had simply found a new way to reward rich supporters.
"It's hard to find any middle-income family that has any capital gains these days," said Charles B. Rangel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee.
In the Senate, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, chairman of the Finance Committee, was under pressure from many of his fellow Republicans to use the full $350 billion the Senate has allotted for tax cuts under the budget to eliminate the tax on dividends, people who were at a closed committee meeting today said. But a majority of the committee, which has 11 Republicans and 10 Democrats, would probably vote against such a bill. All of the Democrats and Republican Olympia J. Snowe of Maine have expressed opposition, and there did not seem to be a committee majority for any plan.
House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said today that he was getting tired of trimming the president's sails to suit the Senate, but Mr. Thomas said the combination of reducing taxes on capital gains and dividends would be a better stimulus to the economy than trying to eliminate dividend taxes, given the Senate restraints. The House has allocated $550 billion for tax cuts.
"Given the money you have and the way you have to structure it, this has a greater positive impact both in terms of stimulus and in terms of growth," Mr. Thomas said. "We're dealing with reality."
Asked why he seemed to be contradicting the two cabinet secretaries, who insisted today on the full dividend tax cut, Mr. Thomas said: "What they are saying is, they like the old plan. We passed the old plan. Did you ask the cabinet secretaries what their new plan is, since they can't have their old plan?"
Administration officials acknowledged it would be difficult to achieve Mr. Bush's goal of eliminating the tax on dividends. But they said they hoped to succeed and were prepared to continue fighting, in part because the president had made clear that he considers the economic principle of eliminating the tax to be an important one.
The strategy, the officials said, is to push the bill as quickly as possible into a House-Senate conference, where the White House can apply pressure directly to the Republican leaders who will have to work out a version that can pass both chambers and win the president's signature.
For now, administration officials said, their focus is less on the details of the House and Senate bills than on making sure that each version addressed the dividend tax in some way and on pressing the Senate to bring the tax cut up to at least $400 billion and perhaps as much as $450 billion.
Once the bill is in conference, the officials said, Mr. Bush will insist on eliminating the dividend tax. But he will signal flexibility about how the provision would be enacted, given its high cost relative to the amount of money available, they said. The president would be willing to accept phasing out the dividend tax gradually, they said, or eliminating it immediately but allowing it to be reinstated in a few years.
In his more than two years in office, Mr. Bush has at times been willing to set out broad principles for legislation and then to compromise and allow Congress to work out the details. But in this case he is taking a hard line, administration officials said, in part because he believes eliminating the dividend tax is the right thing for the economy but also because his political standing is strong coming out of the war with Iraq and he is not inclined to make concessions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a meeting of senators about tax cuts, Max Baucus of Montana, left, spoke yesterday with Charles E. Grassley of Iowa while Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, right, listened to John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) Chart: "IN BRIEF: House Republicans' Tax Plan"These are the main provisions of the 10-year, $550 billion tax-cut bill proposed today by Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Similar to President Bush's proposal: CUTS FOR INDIVIDUALS The top tax rates for middle- and upper-income people -- now 27 percent, 30 percent, 35 percent and 38.6 percent -- would be lowered to 25 percent, 28 percent, 33 percent and 35 percent, retroactive to Jan. 1, 2003. The two bottom tax brackets, 10 percent and 15 percent, would be expanded to cover more income. The tax credit for children, now $600 per child, would be increased to $1,000 for this year through 2005. The standard deduction for married couples would become double the deduction for individuals beginning this year. The income threshold for the alternative minimum tax would be raised to $40,750 for an individual and $59,000 for a couple. CUTS FOR BUSINESSES The amount of expenses on plants and equipment that small businesses could write off immediately would be increased to $75,000 from $25,000. Larger businesses would get a temporary increase, to 50 percent from 30 percent, in the percentage of investment expenses they could write off. The current law allowing businesses to use current losses to recoup taxes paid in the profitable years of the 1990s would be extended through 2004. Substantially different from President Bush's proposal: CUTS FOR INVESTORS The maximum tax rate for stock dividends and capital gains would be lowered to 15 percent. Dividends are now taxed at the same rate as earned income, and the maximum capital gains rate is now 18 percent on stocks held at least five years, and 20 percent on those held for a shorter period. Taxpayers in the two lowest brackets would owe only 5 percent on dividends and capital gains.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DIVIDENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BONDS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); MARRIAGE (50%) TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; STOCKS AND BONDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%) FIRESTONE, DAVID; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; THOMAS, BILL (REP); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



44 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: The Tax Food Chain; 
Painful Increases in Albany

 BODY:
New York is a textbook example of the real trickle-down effect of Bush administration policies. The president cuts taxes, sending the pain down to the state. In New York, Gov. George Pataki would himself like to avoid what he calls "job killing" tax increases, and to shove all the misery down the food chain to the cities and the school districts. This week the state legislators became the first politicians in the chain to behave like adults. The Assembly and Senate, in a rare show of bipartisanship, came up with a plan to fill the state's $11.5 billion budget gap partly by increasing New York's personal income tax for higher-income taxpayers. 
 Mr. Pataki has threatened to veto the tax plan, and it is hard to tell whether he is bluffing. But with no happy options this year, the governor should actually be offering thanks to the legislators for coming up with a tax that is fair in order to restore funds that are necessary. If it works as planned, New York's income tax surcharge will be offset by Washington's tax cuts. While that is the best of the bad options available, it underlines how much President Bush's policies are driven by politics rather than any kind of economic sense. 
 What is also important about New York's legislative budget is that it spares local governments huge increases in their property taxes. The budget proposed in January by Governor Pataki cut state aid so drastically that local communities began to talk about property tax increases of up to 30 percent to fill in the gaps. The understandable outcry was so deafening that it was even heard in Albany, where legislators from both parties have agreed to buck the governor.
There are still some problems with this new legislative package, however. It includes an increase in the state sales tax, the most unfair levy of all, taxing the poor widow and the Wall Street banker at the same rate. If Mr. Pataki is worried about taxes killing jobs, he should focus on this one, which will send shoppers across state lines to buy expensive clothing and other big-ticket items.
Another failure is the Legislature's continued refusal to reinstate a commuter tax to help pay for fire, police and emergency medical services in New York City. Getting people who live elsewhere to pay for services at their workplace is such a reasonable idea that Yonkers, New Jersey, Connecticut and even New York State all impose such levies on commuters. Whenever we mourn its absence in the place that deserves to levy it most, we are reminded that Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a resident of Manhattan, cooperated in killing the city commuter tax in 1999 for trivial political reasons.
The Legislature's budget, like the governor's budget, also requires borrowing $4.2 billion for expenses that will reappear next year -- an election year. These same legislators will have a harder time raising this money again while their competitors are watching. And given the way politicians have been eagerly shoving the pain down to the next level of government, it is hard to imagine what irresponsible measures they will consider when their jobs are at stake. In the meantime, Governor Pataki should privately bless the legislators for doing all the dirty work for him, and negotiate a tax package that at least distributes the hardship as fairly as possible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); SALES TAX (89%); VETO (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); INCOME TAX (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; COMMUTING; SALES TAX 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003 



45 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Cold Truths Behind Pomp

BYLINE:  By Elisabeth Bumiller

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1 

 BODY:
President Bush's made-for-television address tonight on the carrier Abraham Lincoln was a powerful, Reaganesque finale to a six-week war. But beneath the golden images of a president steaming home with his troops toward the California coast lay the cold political and military realities that drove Mr. Bush's advisers to create the moment.
 The president declared an end to major combat operations, White House, Pentagon and State Department officials said, for three crucial reasons: to signify the shift of American soldiers from the role of conquerors to police, to open the way for aid from countries that refused to help militarily and -- above all -- to signal to voters that Mr. Bush is shifting his focus from Baghdad to concerns at home. 
 Mr. Bush was careful, though, not to close the door completely on his greatest political strength, his role as the warrior president who struck back after Sept. 11. For the first time in months, he reprised his most emotional oratory from the attacks and directly tied it to Iraq and his battle against terrorism.
"The battle of Iraq is one victory in a war on terror that began on Sept. 11, 2001, and still goes on," he said.
Even so, administration officials acknowledged that Mr. Bush's declaration of an all-but-over war carried huge risks. Not only could Iraq blow up again, they said, but major tasks were also unfinished. Weapons of mass destruction have not been found, Saddam Hussein's fate is a mystery and American troops remain under attack. Some political strategists say the Republican advantage over Democrats on national security has never been greater, and they questioned whether Mr. Bush should so quickly distance himself from his role as commander in chief.
Mr. Bush himself cautioned about the risks, saying: 
"We have difficult work to do in Iraq. We are bringing order to parts of that country that remain dangerous. We are pursuing and finding leaders of the old regime, who will be held account for their crimes."
But when Karl Rove, his chief political adviser, happily told friends last week that Mr. Bush would soon declare the war over, it was a turning point that re-energized a White House domestic staff eager to step into the light after months in the West Wing shadows. Mr. Bush's speech, a cautious victory dance, was intended to use the capital from the military success to push forward his domestic agenda.
"The big event is over," Michael O'Hanlon, a military expert at the Brookings Institution, said. "Why not take a victory lap, and what politico would advise against it? Bush's tone is excellent right now. He's good at the emotions of war. He doesn't appear giddy. He doesn't appear overcongratulatory. He doesn't have Rumsfeld's tendency to go around and boast and taunt his critics."
Administration officials said the first reason for the speech, to recognize the troops' shift to policing, was an effort to keep White House oratory in sync with reality. In military parlance, Mr. Bush was making a statement of the "commander's intent" to 300,000 members of the air, land and naval forces in the Persian Gulf that the war was essentially over, an important moment of psychological closure.
"This is the military," a senior administration official said. "They don't just roll in one day. Everything is defined. They need somebody to declare, 'This thing is over.' "
The statement was directed as much at civilians at home and abroad, other administration officials said, to make clear that the United States is determined, eventually, to leave.
"This is the formalization that tells everybody we're not engaged in combat anymore, we're prepared for getting out," a senior administration official said. 
The second reason for Mr. Bush's speech, to clear the way for countries that did not contribute to combat operations, was also widely seen as an opening of the door for humanitarian and nongovernmental organizations to move into Baghdad. 
"It goes hand in hand with the military, essentially saying that it's a much less dangerous environment for people to operate in," an administration official said.
It was the third reason for the speech, changing the subject to domestic concerns and Mr. Bush's future, that motivated the White House to create an extraordinary moment of presidential political theater on the deck of the Lincoln. Republicans noted that whoever came up with the idea of having Mr. Bush jet onto the carrier in a flight suit, looking rugged and windblown while surrounded by sailors and fighter pilots, had earned the day's pay.
The television images would quite likely be some of the final images of the president at war, and White House advisers were clearly determined to make them lasting ones.
In a sense, Mr. Bush was leaving the political comforts of his role as commander in chief and stepping into the possibly treacherous role as steward of the economy.
"Let's face it, Bush's strength is his foreign policy leadership," said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a lobbying group that has close ties to the White House. "By turning away from foreign policy issues, it makes him somewhat more vulnerable in that now people focus on jobs and the stock market and the economy generally."
Mr. Moore noted that in the last century no president had been re-elected when the stock market was down in his first term, with Jimmy Carter and Herbert Hoover being prime examples.
But Mr. Bush, basking in the warm early evening light over the Pacific Ocean, sounded the names of the presidents of his pantheon, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman and, of course, Ronald Reagan, who inspired the entire event. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); TERRORISM (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); KARL ROVE (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2003 



46 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1689 words

HEADLINE: Did Knives and Forks Cut Murders?; 
Counting Backward, Historians Resurrect Crime Statistics And Find the Middle Ages More Violent Than Now

BYLINE:  By ALEXANDER STILLE 

 BODY:
In 1939, at one of civilization's lowest points, a little-known Swiss sociologist, Norbert Elias, published a book called "Uber den Prozess der Zivilisation" ("On the Civilizing Process") with a strange and unlikely thesis: that the gradual introduction of courtly manners -- from eating with a knife and fork and using a handkerchief to not spitting or urinating in public -- had played a major part in transforming a violent medieval society into a more peaceful modern one.
 Hitler invaded Poland that year, and Elias's book was consigned to obscurity. It was not published in the United States until 1978 (with the title "The History of Manners"). But since then his seemingly eccentric thesis has been revived, and Elias has posthumously become the theoretical guru of a field that did not exist in 1939: the history of crime. It was then that pioneering historians began to do what most historians had thought impossible: create crime statistics for eras that did not systematically keep crime data. 
 "The Elias theory got revived through the statistical approach to history," said Elizabeth Cohen, a historian at York University in Toronto who has written extensively on crime in Renaissance Italy. 
Although there were no national statistics centuries ago, some historians discovered that the archives of some English counties were intact back to the 13th century. So in the 1970's they began diligently counting indictments and comparing them with estimated population levels to get a rough idea of medieval and early modern crime rates. Historians in Continental Europe followed suit and came up with findings that yielded the same surprising result: that murder was much more common in the Middle Ages than it is now and that it dropped precipitately in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Something very important changed in Western behavior and attitudes, and it stood much prevailing social theory on its head. "It was very surprising because social theory told us that the opposite was supposed to happen: that crime was supposed to go up as family and community bonds in rural society broke up and industrialization and urbanization took hold," said Eric H. Monkkonen, a professor of history at the University of California at Los Angeles and the author of several works on the history of criminality. "The notion that crime and cities go together made emotional sense, particularly in America, where at least recently crime is higher in cities."
Some scholars argue that many of the prevailing theories about why crime rises and falls could be further upended as scholars use new computer models to estimate population figures for past eras more accurately. "With modern computing we may end up with some very good estimates in the homicide rates in many nations right back to the 17th and 16th centuries," said Randall Roth, a historian at Ohio State University who has recalculated murder rates for the 15th and 16th centuries in many countries."The data we are getting doesn't line up with most theories of either liberals or conservatives about crime. The theory that crime is determined by deterrence and law enforcement, by income inequality, by a high proportion of young men in a population, by the availability of weapons, by cities, most of those theories end up being wrong."
Historians have offered various explanations for the unexpected fall in the crime rate. Initially some wondered whether the decline in early modern crime might be a result of industrialization and urbanization themselves. But James A. Sharpe, a historian at the University of York in England, said the big statistical dip in violence preceded industrialization and urbanization by more than a century.
Other scholars then theorized that crime had not diminished but only shifted from bodily assault to crimes of property, reflecting the change from a world of medieval scarcity to one of greater prosperity and availability of material goods. But this theory, too, has not stood the test of time. "The great decline in homicide in the 17th century was not accompanied by a rise in property offense prosecutions, but rather by their diminution," Mr. Sharpe noted in a recent essay.
All these discredited theories helped change "the status of Elias from curiosity to prescient thinker," Eric A. Johnson (a professor at Central Michigan University) and Mr. Monkkonen wrote in the recent book "The Civilization of Crime." That the decrease in crime appears to have happened independently of industrialization or economic growth seemed to suggest that an internal, psychological shift had taken place in attitudes toward crime.
So did its changing nature. Widespread evidence indicates that in the Middle Ages physical violence, even to the point of death, was a widely accepted way of resolving disputes and defending one's honor. Most killings occurred in public in front of many witnesses when a dispute, generally among neighbors, got out of hand.
"People don't yet treat it as a crime and the perpetrator is not a social outcast," said Dan Smail, a historian at Fordham University in New York who has studied crime in southern France in the 14th century." (Still, Mr. Smail said, Elias got it only half right, arguing that it was the greater resources available in the early modern period that made it possible for people to get even with their enemies through law suits and conspicuous consumption rather than with fists and knives.)
That murder was accepted is reflected in the leniency with which it was generally treated, said Barbara A. Hanawalt, a historian at Ohio State University whose work on 14th-century England helped stimulate the interest in the history of murder. "Only 12 percent of homicides actually end in conviction," she said. "That's lower than larceny, which was 23 percent, and crimes of stealth, burglary and counterfeit," for which the rate was about 100 percent.
But after the late Middle Ages, Ms. Hanawalt detects a marked shift. "There is a real change in community tolerance," she said. "The state is more prominent, the local community has less control."
"I think Elias is onto something: people begin to change their notions of how people should behave," Ms. Hanawalt continued. "In the 14th century people are concerned with whether someone is of good or ill repute; it's a collective, community judgment. When you get into the 15th century, the question is about someone's 'governance.' There is a shift from community reputation to an emphasis on internal control." A proliferation of tracts and manuals on proper behavior trickle down to common, illiterate folks in the form of rhymes and ditties.
One recent scholarly book on the history of murder, "Mad Blood Stirring" by Edward Muir at Northwestern University, describes one way in which this process may have occurred. In the book Mr. Muir describes how the Republic of Venice tried to put an end to violent feuding among unruly nobles as it extended its influence into remote rural areas in the 17th century. The wars fought over generations by the area's leading families left the region vulnerable to foreign invasion. Venice reacted by first meting out stiff punishment, then by drawing the rural noble families into Venetian aristocratic life. Here they learned to replace the clan feud with the individual duel, an important shift from collective violence to individual responsibility and violence. Finally, the feuding clans, who now prided themselves on their courtly behavior, fought it out through the publication of dueling pamphlets, trying to best their rivals through elegant put-downs and masterly argument.
With the expansion of the state in many parts of Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries, violent and unruly behavior came to be seen as an affront to the prince or king. Manuals and proverbs about proper behavior proliferated, and townsfolk and merchants did their best to imitate the courtesy of court life.
Other scholars agree that the emphasis on self-control increased but think that it may have stemmed not only from the diffusion of courtly manners. "Both the Protestant Reformation and the Catholic Counter-Reformation put a lot of emphasis on individual conscience," said Tom Cohen, who teaches history at York University in Toronto. "The conscience becomes the internal gyroscope. There is the growth of introspection -- the diary, the novel, the personal essay. Along with the kind of personal self-control that Norbert Elias describes."
Of course, Elias's civilizing theory still has its skeptics, with Mr. Roth of Ohio State University as a chief one. He argues there was little change in rates of violence between the 14th and the 16th centuries. "Then in the 17th century, there is a very big, dramatic drop," he says. "It's so sudden and rapid that it seems too hard to explain with a gradual, civilizing process. Here in the U.S. we have seen how quickly crime rates can both rise and drop, suggesting that countries don't become more or less civilized that quickly." Nonetheless, Mr. Roth agrees that the 17th-century decline in crime does partly fit Elias's idea of the pacifying effect of the rise of the state.
"I think it has to do with political stability and political legitimacy," he said. "It may have to do with the rise of nationalism and the sense of fellow feeling."
Conversely, Mr. Roth noted, one sees significant increases in violence at times of political tension when the legitimacy of government is under serious attack, before and after the Civil War, as well as after World War I in Europe. The fact that murder rates did not go down in Italy and Greece until the 19th centuries, when each country won its political independence and formed a modern national state, suggests that the decline may have had more to do with state formation than with the trickling down of court culture.
"The Elias theory, with its emphasis on civility, has great appeal in Europe because the Europeans have enjoyed this protracted period of peace," Mr. Roth said. "But national identity, state formation, political legitimacy all seem to play a role in why people kill their friends and neighbors or prey on strangers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Norman barons waylaid travelers in the 12th century, but such violence had declined by modern times. Historians have had several short-lived theories about why people now tend to get even with lawsuits instead. (Culver Pictures)(pg. B9); (Illustration by Viktor Coen)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (93%); CRIME STATISTICS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); MURDER (88%); CRIME RATES (88%); BONDS (78%); WRITERS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); FAMILY (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (72%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (70%); INDICTMENTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); URBANIZATION (50%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; HISTORY 

PERSON: STILLE, ALEXANDER

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



47 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 CRUDE OIL FALLS. Prices declined as the nation's unemployment rate climbed to 6 percent, undermining prospects for an increase in fuel demand. In New York, crude oil for June delivery fell 36 cents, to $25.67 a barrel.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since November 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



48 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: China Reports 70 Sailors Die in Submarine Accident in Yellow Sea 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 2 

 BODY:
Seventy Chinese sailors have perished in an accident aboard a diesel-powered submarine on a training mission in the Yellow Sea, the official New China News Agency reported this evening without revealing when or how the disaster occurred.
 The brief report said that Jiang Zemin, the former president and Communist Party chief who has retained the title of military chairman, "sent condolence messages, dated May 2, to family members of the dead navy officers and seamen." 
 The account said that the No. 361 submarine was taking part in drills east of Nanchangshan Island when a "mechanical problem" caused the accident. The damaged submarine has been towed to its home port, the report said. 
China's submarine programs, especially its small fleet of nuclear-powered vessels, have a history of safety and performance problems that have generally been kept secret. 
"What I find most interesting is that they have publicly reported this accident," said Evan Medeiros, an expert on the Chinese military at the RAND Corporation in Washington. Mr. Medeiros said he wondered whether the domestic and global uproars over Beijing's early efforts to conceal the epidemic of SARS might have encouraged a more open stance on this latest catastrophe.
The apparently rapid recovery of the vessel indicated that it was not submerged and did not sink after the accident, said David Shambaugh, a military expert at George Washington University in Washington. Mr. Shambaugh speculated that an explosion or chemical disaster might have killed the crew without sinking the ship.
The submarine's identification number indicated to experts that it was a Ming-class vessel, one of 18 to 20 in operation that are Chinese-built variants on an older Soviet design, and are antiquated by current Western military standards.
The Chinese still use at least 30 of the even more obsolete Soviet-designed Romeo submarines, but they have recently deployed a few of the newer Song-class diesel vessels. China has also bolstered its forces by purchasing advanced Kilo-class submarines from Russia.
The Chinese submarines patrol the shores but are mainly in place for a possible blockade or battle over Taiwan. Beijing considers the island an errant province of the mainland and has threatened to attack if it formally declares independence.
China's single nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine in operation has been plagued by problems, experts believe.
China also deploys five Han nuclear-powered submarines that do not carry ballistic missiles, and it is now developing other nuclear-driven models.

GRAPHIC: Map of China highlighting Nanchangshan Island: The submarine was on a mission east of Nanchangshan Island. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (57%); SARS (51%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; SUBMARINES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%)

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TAIWAN (79%) CHINA; YELLOW SEA

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



49 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Jobless Rate Climbs to 6%, Matching an 8-Year High
The unemployment rate rose to 6 percent last month, from 5.8 percent in March, matching an eight-year high, as the deepest jobs slump in almost 20 years continued to worsen.
 The economy lost 48,000 jobs in April, the Labor Department reported; in the last three months 525,000 jobs have disappeared. Since 1960, every loss of that magnitude has occurred during a recession. Page A1. 

Market Gauges Rise 1.5% or More
Stocks rose sharply after the April unemployment report turned out to be less gloomy than expected. The Dow Jones industrial average had its highest close since March 21, 8,582.68, and was up 128.43 points, or 1.5 percent. The S.& P. 500-stock index rose 13.78 points, or 1.5 percent, to 930.08, and the Nasdaq gained 30.32 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,502.88. C4.

Ahold Selects a Chief Executive
Royal Ahold named Anders Moberg chief executive, filling a two-month vacuum at the top of the company and raising investors' hopes for a rebound from its recent troubles. C3.

New Tax-Cut Plan Helps Rich Most
The tax-cut plan offered this week by Republican leaders in the House would be even more favorable to the wealthiest taxpayers than the larger plan proposed by President Bush, and those with incomes below $50,000 would have smaller tax reductions than under the Bush plan, a computer analysis by the Tax Policy Center at the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution found. A13.

The chief executive of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, said the price war his company was leading was losing its effectiveness, necessitating a strong economic stimulus package from Washington. C2.

Profits Double at Shell and Chevron
Royal Dutch/Shell and ChevronTexaco said their first-quarter earnings more than doubled, capping a series of strong results for the industry as the price of crude oil rose. C4.

UAL Lost $1.34 Billion in Quarter
UAL, the parent of United Airlines, had a net loss of $1.34 billion in the quarter. United filed for bankruptcy protection in December. C2.

Ailing British Publisher Is Acquired
Peter Mayer, left, a founder of Overlook Press, acquired the assets of Duckworth, an ailing British independent publisher that built a blue-chip reputation with authors like Virginia Woolf and D. H. Lawrence. Duckworth was founded 105 years ago and has a staff of about 10 people. Nine companies bid for the publisher. C2.

FX Drops Candidate Program
The FX cable network ended plans to present a reality program during which viewers would choose a candidate to run for president from among prescreened contestants. C2.

Wells Fargo Loses Mortgage Permit
California revoked the state mortgage lending license of Wells Fargo because the company's lending unit is charging interest more than one day before the mortgages are actually recorded in county clerks' offices, violating state law. California said the overcharges amount to about $200 for each mortgage. C4.

Profits at Cigna Surpass Forecasts
Cigna said that quarterly profit topped analysts' estimates, helped by a strong performance from many of its employee benefits programs, offsetting membership declines in its health plans. C3.

Strong Sales Bolster Molson
Molson, Canada's largest brewer, posted a sharp increase in fourth-quarter earnings, helped by strong sales in Brazil. Molson bought Brazil's Kaiser brewery in March 2002. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,582.68 up 128.43Nasdaq composite -- 1,502.88 up 30.3210-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.93% up 0.09The euro -- $1.1231 down 0.0007The dollar -- 118.93 yen down 0.39 Graph tracks Dow Jones Industrials weekly closings since 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); PUBLISHING (65%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (63%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); MORTGAGE BANKING (61%); REALITY TELEVISION (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); WRITERS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); CHEVRON CORP (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (84%); AH (BIT) (84%); AH (AMS) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); WFC (NYSE) (81%); CVX (NYSE) (66%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



50 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: After a Theater Shuts Down, Hopes for a Second Act 

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN 

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD, N.J., May 2 

 BODY:
Two weeks after crushing debt caused it to close, efforts are under way to revive theJohn Harms Center for the Arts here. 
 Two trustees of the center, which was considered one of the leading cultural institutions in northern New Jersey, and a member of the city council in Alpine, N.J., formed a foundation this week to try to revive the Harms Center theater. The foundation, called the Bergen Performing Arts Center, will try to raise money to pay off the center's $2.3 million debt and permit it to reopen, said Frank Huttle, one of the center's trustees and one of the three people who formed the new foundation. 
 "I believe everyone wants the John Harms Center to reopen as fast as possible," Mr. Huttle said. He added, however, that he knows the job of reopening the theater, which began in 1926 as a silent movie and vaudeville house, will not be easy.
To attain financial stability and pay off or successfully manage its debt, he said, the center needs an endowment. 
"In order to do that," he said, "we need a true private-public partnership. We need the city of Englewood and all levels of government, and the people themselves, to come forward, not just to raise funds but to raise awareness, to join together and save this institution."
Mr. Huttle, a lawyer who specializes in corporate mergers, acquisitions and turnarounds, joined the Harms board six months ago. Trying to save it, he said, has become "like a mission" to him. The other creators of the new foundation are Ed Schwartz, who, like Mr. Huttle, is member of the Harms board and an Englewood resident, and Ronny Siegal, a councilwoman from Alpine.
The group, which is working with Robert Stern, the president and chairman of the Harms center, will hold its first meeting on Monday at 6 p.m. at Englewood Hospital, Mr. Huttle said, and is inviting anyone who is interested to attend.
The center's 1,400-seat performing arts space has featured a variety of performances and events, including Chick Corea concerts, ballet and children's theater. It has also been credited with helping to revive the downtown by providing more customers for restaurants and boutiques.
The new group will have to confront the challenge of raising money at a time when the economy has left potential donors with less cash and governments facing steep budget cuts. The new group will also have to contend with debt created when the center closed abruptly on April 14.
The center had 15 performances scheduled when the closure was announced. It owes about $100,000 in ticket refunds to patrons and another $100,000 to vendors. The center also owes money to families whose children were enrolled in its performing arts school.
Mr. Huttle said that when the center closed last month, many people told the trustees that it would be a major loss to the arts world. He said those supporters now must come forward and back up their words with their money.
"We're going to have to raise a substantial amount of money, well beyond the debt, to really get in a good financial position," he said. "There is a massive amount of support, but this task is not going to be easy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of the John Harms Center for the Arts are trying to raise money to help pay off $2.3 million in debt so the 1,400-seat theater can reopen. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (84%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FILM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MERGERS (77%); FAMILY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CITIES (72%); BOARD CHANGES (64%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (63%); THEATER (56%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) THEATER; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: HARMS, JOHN, CENTER FOR THE ARTS 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA; HUTTLE, FRANK; SCHWARTZ, ED; SIEGAL, RONNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) ENGLEWOOD (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



51 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: APPRECIATIONS; 
The TriBeCa Film Festival

BYLINE:  By VERLYN KLINKENBORG 

 BODY:
"The last thing the world needs is another film festival." That's what Jane Rosenthal remembers thinking. But in the chaotic vacuum of Lower Manhattan after 9/11, what the world needed changed abruptly. Ms. Rosenthal and Robert De Niro, her partner in TriBeCa Productions, realized that a film festival might be the kind of event that would bring people back to Lower Manhattan. And indeed it did. Last year's inaugural TriBeCa Film Festival lured more than 150,000 people to screening venues in the neighborhood and to its restaurants and shops. The festival was as noteworthy for the mood of the event as for the films it screened, and especially for the buoyant spirit of its family street festival, an enormous party along six blocks of Greenwich Street. 
 There has been a lot of talk ever since 9/11 about bringing more cultural activity to Lower Manhattan, and a lot of speculation about whether such a step might help rekindle the area economically. The New York City Opera may move downtown, and at least one new museum will probably emerge in the redevelopment of the World Trade Center site. But the groundbreaking experiment -- the TriBeCa Film Festival -- has already succeeded. It has earned its aesthetic credentials in a tough industry. More important, it has turned the very idea of a film festival into something more public and more family-oriented than we usually imagine. In part, this is a way of recognizing the kind of neighborhood TriBeCa has become. But it is also a way of recognizing what the city itself needs, a way of connecting families and culture. In fact, this year's TriBeCa Film Festival, which runs through May 11, began last night with a family film festival. 
 A lot has changed downtown in the past year. TriBeCa no longer feels nearly as shuttered as it did in the first months after 9/11. The desperate need for an uplift, emotionally, is no longer as desperate as it was last May. Even though things are picking up again, business is still well off what it was before 9/11. But no matter how the backdrop changes, the rationale for this film festival remains the same. It is not just a matter of getting New Yorkers -- a film-crazy people -- to see a striking new crop of films. It's a matter of giving New Yorkers new traditions, new celebrations and new connections, in the shadow of a forbidding memory. VERLYN KLINKENBORG

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); FAMILY (75%); FILM GENRES (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%) MOTION PICTURES; TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL (NYC) 

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (58%) KLINKENBORG, VERLYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



52 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: JOBLESS RATE ROSE TO 6% LAST MONTH 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The unemployment rate rose to 6 percent last month, from 5.8 percent in March, matching an eight-year high, as the deepest jobs slump in 20 years continued to worsen. 
 The economy lost 48,000 jobs in April, the Labor Department reported yesterday; in the last three months 525,000 jobs have disappeared. Since 1960, every loss of that magnitude has occurred during a recession. 
 The report appeared to increase pressure on policy makers trying to lift an economy that has been struggling for almost three years to emerge from the hangover after the 1990's boom. Manufacturers continued to bear the downturn's heaviest burden. 
President Bush, speaking yesterday at a military contractor, United Defense Industries, in Santa Clara, Calif., used the increase in the jobless rate to rally support for his tax cut proposal, which many lawmakers consider too expensive. 
"That 6 percent should say loud and clear to members of both political parties in the United States Congress -- we need robust tax relief so our fellow citizens can find a job," he said.
In Washington, Democrats responded that two earlier tax cuts had not cured the economy and that the White House needed a new strategy.
Economists said they still expected the economy to improve in coming months as the winding down of the war in Iraq reduced uncertainty and made businesses and households more willing to spend money. Most analysts predicted that the Federal Reserve would not cut its benchmark interest rate when it meets next week, but they said that the jobs report increased the likelihood of a rate cut.
Stocks rose yesterday, which analysts attributed to relief among investors that the government had not reported larger job losses. 
"The best news is that the weakness in the economy does not seem to be intensifying," said Richard D. Rippe, the chief economist at Prudential Securities, noting that job losses had become smaller in each of the last two months. "But we haven't seen any sign of improvement."
Manufacturers cut 95,000 jobs in April, the 33rd consecutive monthly decline. Government agencies, many of them running deficits, surprised analysts by adding 32,000 workers, according to the Labor Department. Outside of government, employment in the service sector remained roughly flat.
Companies also did not take steps that are common shortly before a surge in hiring, like increasing the hours of their existing employees or adding temporary workers.
The number of temporary employees nationwide dropped 14,000, to 2.8 million; it has decreased 20 percent in the last three years.
The average workweek fell to 34 hours last month, from 34.3 hours, tying its lowest level on record. The drop was the sharpest since the blizzard of 1996, although Easter vacations -- which occurred in April this year and in March last year -- might have aggravated the decline, economists said.
Companies "have cut so many jobs at this point that some of them can't cut any more, and then they cut hours," said Sharon L. Stark, a managing director at Legg Mason Wood Walker, a brokerage firm. "It's not an encouraging sign."
More than 4.7 million people wanted full-time work last month but could find only part-time work. The number has increased more than 50 percent since 2000 and was at its highest level last month in almost 10 years. 
The most recent recession began in early 2001, and growth resumed at the end of that year. But job losses have continued, because growth has been slow enough that companies have been able to expand by becoming more efficient while continuing to lay off employees. In all, the economy has lost more than two million jobs since March 2001.
The calling up of about 220,000 military reservists for the war in Iraq seems to have contributed to the recent job losses, the Labor Department said. Workers called up to active duty are counted as if they had left the labor force, and employment numbers are likely to rise in coming months as they return to work.
But even if the war has exaggerated the recent losses, the job market clearly remains weak, economists said. In a healthy economy, many of the reservists would probably have been replaced by temporary employees. 
Labor leaders and some Democrats used yesterday's report to call for an extension of unemployment benefits. The extension passed by Congress and signed by President Bush in January -- giving many workers 13 weeks of additional benefits after their usual 26 weeks end -- is set to expire at the end of this month.
Among people still looking for work, the average length of unemployment increased to 19.6 weeks in April, the longest since 1984. About 1.9 million people have been searching for a job for at least six months.
Without a new extension, said Representative Pete Stark of California, the ranking Democrat on the Joint Economic Committee, the benefits would be less generous than they were during downturns in the 1980's and early 1990's. An extension, Mr. Stark said, "will put money directly into the pockets of people who need it."
In place of an extension, Mr. Bush has proposed giving unemployed workers money for training programs, day care or other costs associated of a job search. If they found a job before they had used all the money, they could keep the remainder.
Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, said Mr. Bush was focused on improving the economy, not extending jobless benefits.
"People want jobs; they don't want unemployment checks," Ms. Buchan said.
The jump in the jobless rate last month occurred largely because the number of people looking for work increased, according to the Labor Department's survey of households. When people stop looking for a job, the government does not count them in the jobless rate.
Ms. Stark of Legg Mason said that the increase in job seekers could be viewed as a sign that perceptions of the job market were improving -- or as evidence that people were desperate for work after months out of the labor force. 
The household survey actually shows an increase in jobs over the last three months, but economists give more credence to the much larger survey of businesses. Some of the methodology of the household survey changed this year, possibly causing a jump in its count of both employed and unemployed workers. 
Still, the gap between the surveys suggests that the job market might be somewhat better than the payroll survey indicates, even if almost no one considers it healthy. 
Among production workers and others who are not supervisors -- about 80 percent of the work force -- average weekly pay fell $3.85, to $513.74, last month. Since April 2002, it has risen 2.5 percent, slightly less than the rate of inflation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald L. Evans, center, the commerce secretary, at a Republican news conference Thursday on jobs growth. With him are Senators Don Nickles of Oklahoma, left, and Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C14) Chart: "The Labor Picture in April" UNEMPLOYMENTGraph tracks civilian unemployment since May 2002. Civilian unemployment: 6.0 percent BY DEMOGRAPHIC WhiteMarch: 5.1%April: 5.2% BlackMarch: 10.2April: 10.9 Hispanic*March: 7.5April: 7.5 Men 20 and overMarch: 5.3April: 5.6 Women 20 and overMarch: 5.0April: 5.1 Teenagers (16-19)March: 17.7April: 18.0 OUT OF WORK (millions) TotalMarch: 8.4April: 8.8 Lost jobMarch: n.a.April: n.a. Left jobMarch: 0.8April: 0.8 Returning to labor marketMarch: 2.4April: 2.6 New to labor marketMarch: 0.6April: 0.6 EMPLOYMENTGraph tracks household survey and nonfarm payroll survey since May 2002. Household survey: 137.7 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 130.3 million BY TYPE OF WORK (millions) NonfarmMarch: 130.4April: 130.3 GoodsMarch: 23.4April: 23.4 ServicesMarch: 107.0April: 107.0 Agriculture+March: 2.2April: 2.1 SHARE OF POPULATION Work forceMarch: 66.2%April: 66.4% Labor force (workers and unemployed)March: 62.3April: 62.4 All figures are seasonally adjusted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Revised because of change in classifications. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14) Chart: "Factory Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks total new orders from October 2001 to March 2003. Monthly ChangeMarch: +2.2%Feb.: -1.0Jan.: +1.7 (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); RECESSION (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); WORK WEEK (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (69%); POLITICS (69%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: UNITED DEFENSE INDUSTRIES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3795 TANKS & TANK COMPONENTS (56%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



53 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Inconsistency: New Hobgoblin For the Airlines 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Breaking up may be hard to do, but it appears especially tough for the government and the airline industry.
 Since deregulating the industry a quarter-century ago, the government has struggled to map out a consistent approach for handling it. Should it let market forces dominate, even if that means a decline in the number of flights and an increase in fares as airlines fail or consolidate? Should it take a role in the industry's usually fractious labor negotiations? Should it let foreign investors own controlling interests in domestic airlines? 
 These questions have taken on added urgency in the last few months as airlines have sought wage and benefit concessions from their employees and made cutbacks in an effort to reduce their costs. Two major airlines, United and US Airways, sought bankruptcy protection and a third, American, is still struggling to avoid it. Arguing that assistance was needed to avoid financial disaster, the industry persuaded the government to come up with a $3.8 billion aid package last month. 
But what has contributed to the crippling of the airlines is the inability of the government and the industry, like heartbroken lovers, to let go of each other, according to economists, executives and lawmakers.
Few agree on what the government's policy should be, but they generally contend that officials should take a more sanguine view toward market forces. Government policy should remain consistent through downturns and boom years, they say, and avoid treating companies differently, whether they are reaping profits or in danger of collapsing.
"It is largely start and stop right now," said Representative James L. Oberstar, a Democrat from Minnesota who is his party's ranking member on the House Transportation Committee.
Clifford Winston, an economist at the Brookings Institution who studies the industry, said that "the idea would be these policies would be harmonized along with what deregulation was expected to do; the fundamental criticism is that government has failed to do that."
The government's "residual presence" in the industry, he added, has created "a mind-set that you can use the government for your own purposes" and "has diverted the carriers' attentions from working out their problems themselves."
Last month, President Bush approved, as part of the supplemental spending budget for the war in Iraq, the $3.8 billion in aid, with about $500 million of that coming in the form of a suspension of security taxes for four months ending in September. The Transportation Security Administration is now working to split that money among 71 airlines by May 16. But the debate over how much aid to hand out -- and whether to give any at all -- has been heated and could intensify as the government tries to figure out what to do about the taxes after September.
The industry already received one aid package, when Congress approved $15 billion in cash and loan guarantees after the Sept. 11 attacks. Then, in the last six months, it began to look as if federal officials were coming around to adopting a liberalized attitude toward the airlines. Last December, they denied United Airlines a $1.8 billion loan guarantee, saying United had to repair its broken business model. On March 31, the Transportation Department approved a marketing partnership among Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines, after easing conditions it had initially required for the partnership.
But the $3.8 billion in aid raises questions of whether the government is distorting market forces in an industry that experts say needs a good shaking out. Of the total package, $2.3 billion is partial reimbursement for security-related taxes and costs incurred by the industry after the Sept. 11 attacks -- most of which came from a new $2.50-a-flight-leg tax that passengers paid, not the carriers. The airlines argue, though, that that tax made it harder for them to raise ticket prices.
"It is Congress's responsibility post 9/11 to assume the security costs as a part of national defense," said Jim May, chief executive of the Air Transport Association, the industry's main trade group. "You can't pay for it, then when it's convenient lay it off on the airlines."
Mr. May said the government should permanently rescind the security taxes even after the suspension period ends.
But many critics of the tax relief say the airlines should contribute something to airport security costs. First, they say, it is spurious to argue that the protection of airlines is a national defense issue because many other industries -- trucking, arms manufacturing and so on -- could just as easily argue that their security measures should be financed by taxpayers to keep their products away from terrorists.
Second, critics say the threat of terrorism will continue to be a fact of life in commercial aviation, and costs related to it should now be considered part of doing business, just like paying to have planes tuned.
"They have to address those new risks and those new requirements in order to service their customers," said Kevin P. Mitchell, president of the Business Travel Coalition, an advocacy group for business travelers. "That seems to be an identifiable new part of the environment. Why are taxpayers funding that?"
Mr. Oberstar was among the first lawmakers to propose an aid package for the airlines to alleviate effects from the United States-led invasion of Iraq but did not support the suspension of security taxes.
"That's puzzling to me how that worked out," he said, adding that he thinks passengers are willing to pay the equivalent of two lattes at Starbucks to support security.
Mr. Winston, the economist at Brookings, said the government's role in security was another example of its becoming "involved in areas where it doesn't have expertise." Instead, he said, airports should oversee security -- they have more expertise than the government or the airlines, and they would have more market-driven incentive than the airlines to keep the premises safe. 
There are certain regulations that executives and industry analysts say are hampering the health of the airlines. They point to the Railway Labor Act, which they argue leads to prolonged negotiations that give the unions too much leverage. But this is a politically divisive issue, and there is no clear-cut opinion on it among experts. Few of them expect the act to be overhauled anytime soon.
Many people in the industry agree, though, that the government should lift limits on foreign investment in domestic airlines. The law prevents foreign investors from owning more than 25 percent of the voting stock of an airline or 49 percent of total equity. Those restrictions originated in an era when federal officials were more concerned about national security issues related to foreign investment, experts say.
"You can't allow people not to buy into U.S. airlines that operate subject to U.S. labor laws," said Michael E. Levine, a former airline executive who is now a professor at Yale Law School. "I don't see any reason why we should prevent them."
Richard Branson, the British founder of Virgin Atlantic Airways, said foreign-owned airlines that compete with the traditional domestic companies might be the stimulus that the ailing industry needs. He said he was talking with one or two potential partners about starting an airline in this country and would prefer to own the majority of the company. "We'd like control over our destiny," he said.
Despite all the talk of further liberalizing the industry, there are lawmakers who would like to see regulation restored to parts of it. Many of them say they fear that if airlines are allowed to cut back on unprofitable routes, then travelers might be forced to drive hundreds of miles for air service. Representative Peter A. DeFazio, a Democrat from Oregon, said the government should think about reregulating routes that are dominated by one airline to ensure that service continues between those cities under any circumstance.
"At some point, you've got to think, 'Do we want to keep giving them money, or take an equity position, or look at reregulation?' " Mr. DeFazio said. "You have to look at what makes sense to sustain a system of universal air service."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An airline passenger was greeted earlier this week by Transportation Security Administration screeners at Los Angeles International Airport. The industry wants the government to pick up security costs. (Associated Press)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); DEREGULATION (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); APPROVALS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BUDGETS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIM OBERSTAR (50%) WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



54 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

After Victory in Iraq, Challenges in Rebuilding
American troops are straining to manage the forces the war has unleashed: the anger, frustration and competing ambitions of a nation suppressed for three decades. There is a sense that the Americans are losing the initiative, slackened by the delicate task of transforming a military victory into political success. A1

U.S. Force in Iraq Will Shrink
The Bush administration is planning to withdraw most of the American combat forces from Iraq over the next several months, wants to shrink the American military presence to less than two divisions by the fall, according to senior allied officers. A1

Iraqi Officials Captured
Three more Iraqi officials on the American most-wanted list have been arrested, military officials announced, including Saddam Hussein's director of the Military Industrialization Organization, which oversaw the development of Iraq's weapons systems. A10

Taking Steps to End Conflict
Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee announced in Parliament that India would restore diplomatic and air links with Pakistan. In Karachi, the foreign minister said Pakistan would also upgrade diplomatic relations, and that it was ready to start talks regarding Jammu and Kashmir. A1

Quake Aftermath in Turkey
Rescue efforts continued at a boarding school in southeastern Turkey where more than 60 students remained buried after a devastating earthquake collapsed their school on Thursday. A3

An Angry Funeral in Gaza
Hundreds of fighters from the militant Hamas movement joined thousands of people in a march through the streets of Gaza in a funeral procession for 12 people killed in an Israeli raid on Thursday. Many protesters called for retaliation against the first Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas. A3

NATIONAL A12-15, 20

Mixed Ruling by Court On Campaign Finance Law
A special three-judge panel held that a major new law limiting political campaign donations in an effort to reduce corruption was flawed in some respects, but that its major provisions were constitutional. A1

Moral Crusader's Gambling
According to online magazine reports, William J. Bennett, author of "The Book of Virtues" and one of the nation's most relentless moral crusaders, is a high-rolling gambler who has lost more than $8 million at casinos in the last decade. A12

DNA Test Dismisses Hope
The immediate hopes of a North Carolina family were dashed as DNA tests showed that a little boy in foster care in Chicago is not Tristen Alan Myers, who disappeared more than two years ago. A12

New Kind of Law Enforcer
As civil rights activists gather in Birmingham to honor desegregation, the city's police chief, Annetta W. Nunn, a black mother and Baptist choir singer, bears little resemblance to Bull Connor, segregation's infamous enforcer who was police chief 40 years ago. A12

Police Chief Placed on Leave
The acting police chief of Tacoma, Wash., has been put on paid administrative leave in a widening investigation into the previous chief, who shot his estranged wife and fatally shot himself a week ago. A12

Homeland's Ethics Rules
The Department of Homeland Security said it was establishing ethics rules to ensure that lobbyists with personal connections to Secretary Tom Ridge and other senior officials would not receive special favors from the new agency. A11

Bush Pushes Domestic Agenda
Declaring the war in Iraq over, President Bush confronted rising unemployment and returned to his tax cut battles with Congress, in what White House officials said would be a drive to refocus the country on his domestic agenda. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Charter School Movement Feeling Growing Pains
The charter school movement has begun expanding from its traditional base in cities to more affluent suburbs, but this shift may be starting to erode political support for the movement -- especially in states confronting huge budget problems. B1

Deal Lets City Raise Taxes
State legislative leaders finished passing the state budget as they reached an agreement with Mayor Bloomberg that would raise New York City's sales and income taxes to stave off severe layoffs. If approved, the tax and aid package would end months of anxiety in the city over the worst fiscal crisis since the 1970's, which threatened to reverse New York's re-emergence as a livable metropolis. A1

Farmworkers Fight for Rights
Four decades after Cesar Chavez rallied the grape pickers in California, farmworkers are borrowing from Mr. Chavez's tactics in their own fight for better working conditions in New York. B1

Fare Increase Is On
A State Supreme Court judge in Manhattan refused to temporarily stop a transit fare increase, meaning that the base cost of riding the subway and buses will rise to $2 from $1.50 tomorrow. B3

Beliefs A16

ARTS & IDEAS A21-28

OBITUARIES A17

SPORTS D1-8

Tough Luck for Favorites
Empire Maker will go the starting gate today as the most heavily favored horse in the Kentucky Derby in the last decade. But neither numbers nor omens favor Empire Maker's chances. Only 49 post-time favorites have ever won the Derby. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Job Slump Continues
The unemployment rate rose to 6 percent last month, from 5.8 percent in March, matching an eight-year high, as the deepest jobs slump in almost 20 years continued. The economy lost 48,000 jobs in April. A1

Faster Cars, More Guzzling
The Environmental Protection Agency reported that since 1981, the average vehicle has 93 percent more horsepower, but technological leaps of the last 20 years have failed to improve fuel economy. C1

Wal-Mart Selling McLane
In an unusual strategic move, Wal-Mart Stores plans to sell its McLane unit to Berkshire Hathaway in a $1.45 billion deal that puts Berkshire Hathaway in position to dominate the food-distribution industry. C1

Rally on Wall Street
Stocks rose sharply after the April unemployment report turned out to be less gloomy than expected. C4

Business Digest B1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Half-right on McCain-Feingold; spring thaw on the subcontinent; psst . . . Democrats debating tonight; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the Tribeca Film Festival.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B10
TV Listings B15
Crossword B12
Weather B16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); HAMAS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); JUDGES (63%); WRITERS (61%); DNA (60%); DNA TESTING (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); TURKEY (91%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



55 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Economy Hit 22-Year Low in 2002 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 2 

 BODY:
The average fuel economy of the nation's cars and trucks fell to its lowest level in 22 years in the 2002 model year, the Environmental Protection Agency reported today.
 The technological and engineering leaps of the last two decades have been poured into everything but fuel economy, according to the agency's statistics. Since 1981, the average vehicle has 93 percent more horsepower and is 29 percent faster in going from 0 to 60 miles an hour. It is also 24 percent heavier, reflecting surging sales of sport utility vehicles. 
 But over the same period, fuel economy has stagnated, contributing heavily to the nation's rising oil consumption. Cars and light trucks -- S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans -- account for about 40 percent of the nation's oil consumption and a fifth of its carbon dioxide emissions, which many scientists see as the leading contributor to global warming.
Environmentalists, frustrated by years of legislative defeats and a recent retreat by the Ford Motor Company on a pledge that it would improve the fuel economy of its S.U.V.'s, were further exasperated by the report.
"Without being forced to improve fuel economy by the government, the auto industry doesn't do it," said Daniel Becker, the top global warming expert for the Sierra Club. "Congress has to require energy savings in the energy bill that comes to the floor next week or the auto industry will continue to go in reverse."
The report also said that fuel economy could have improved 33 percent since 1981 if performance and weight of vehicles had been held constant. 
But Gloria J. Bergquist, the vice president for communications at the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the industry's chief political lobbying group, said the industry could not force consumers to buy fuel-efficient vehicles. 
"We have 30 models that get over 30 miles per gallon, but the top 10 most fuel-efficient vehicles are less than 2 percent of sales," she said. "I would call this report a consumer sales report. It shows what consumers are buying."
In his first speech today as the new chairman of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, who will continue to serve as chief executive, said "the only solution to this tough dilemma of improving fuel economy and reducing emissions in the intensely price-competitive and very low-cost-energy environment here in the U.S. is through technology." 
He singled out the potential of hydrogen-powered fuel cells, a clean energy source, which have been a favorite technology of the Bush administration. But many analysts say fuel-cell cars are years, if not decades, away from mass production. 
The E.P.A. report came several months later than usual and was somewhat controversial because the agency changed its normal reporting procedures. Instead of reporting only fuel economy changes for the 2002 model year, weighted for sales, the agency also included results for the 2003 model year based on the industry's own sales projections from last September.
By that reckoning, average fuel economy will show its first improvement in more than two decades in the 2003 model year. But the agency said there was a margin for error large enough to swing the results to a loss. And sales trends this year have also not appeared to favor energy conservation. 
Light trucks continue to gobble up more of the market than more fuel-efficient passenger cars. Sales of the biggest S.U.V.'s, like the Lincoln Navigator and the Chevrolet Suburban, rebounded from a sluggish first quarter with a strong showing last month. 
Further worsening fuel economy statistics are the aggressive moves by Asian automakers into S.U.V.'s of all sizes, with the next battleground being drawn over the last stronghold of Detroit, the pickup truck.
In the 2002 model year, fuel economy averaged 20.4 miles a gallon, the lowest since the fleet averaged 19.2 miles a gallon in 1980. Fuel economy peaked at 22.1 miles a gallon in 1988 but has mostly fallen since.
The agency predicts fuel economy will rise to 20.8 miles a gallon in the 2003 model year, with a 0.5 mile a gallon margin for error. Cars are expected to average 24.8 miles a gallon, compared with 19.6 for minivans, 17.8 for S.U.V.'s and 16.8 for pickups. 
David Friedman, a senior policy analyst for the Union of Concerned Scientists, said the report's new methodology "raises a lot of questions."
"I'm very skeptical of their use of the 2003 model year information," he said, adding that "it's difficult to come to any conclusions about any model year before the model year is over."
Conversations with people at the environmental agency who were briefed on the decision to offer 2003 figures indicated that it was not politically motivated but was done in part to prevent news organizations from doing their own projections. 
Donald Zinger, the assistant director of the E.P.A.'s office of transportation and air quality, said "some people tried to do it themselves and got all messed up and came out with numbers that were inaccurate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Light trucks have poorer fuel economy than cars, but the auto industry says it cannot force people to buy more efficient vehicles. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); The average vehicle sold today is 24 percent heavier than in 1981, reflecting strong sales of sport utility vehicles and other so-called light trucks. (Art Seitz/Zuma Press)(pg. C2) Chart: "Green vs. Guzzling"Like other automakers, Toyota has developed some fuel efficient and environmentally friendly cars, but its sport utility vehicles are what is selling. 2003 TOYOTA PRIUSAVERAGE MILES PER GALLON: 48ANNUAL FUEL COST: $484ANNUAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS: 4.0 tons 2003 TOYOTA SEQUOIA 4WDAVERAGE MILES PER GALLON: 15ANNUAL FUEL COST: $1,551ANNUAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS: 12.3 tons (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; GLOBAL WARMING; WEATHER; CARBON DIOXIDE; AIR POLLUTION 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (54%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (50%) HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



56 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
A New Day at the Races in Hollywood

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY 

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., May 2 

 BODY:
The way Gary Ross tells it, instead of a bar mitzvah he was given a trip to Santa Anita. With all due respect, he makes it sound like a religious experience just the same.
 "One of the most beautiful tracks anywhere," he said. "A jewel." 
 A convert, he spent a good deal of his senior year of high school at Hollywood Park (not a jewel). But it took him a few decades and a number of film credits before he went from contributing patron to minority ownership.
Now Ross and five Hollywood pals own 10 percent of Atswhatimtalknabout, a 12-1 shot in Saturday's Kentucky Derby. Ross is also the writer and director of the film "Seabiscuit," about the famed horse, which will be released on July 25.
It will come as no surprise that there are some true believers in racing who think Ross and his friends bought into Atswhatimtalknabout mainly to make the horse a galloping billboard for their film. 
"Another way of looking at it is, we're encouraging the sport," Ross said. "I don't think we did it for publicity. We're having a ball."
Thoroughbred racing carries the stigma of being last century's sport, having been challenged by casinos and other forms of instant gratification. It needs all the new blood and devoted fans it can get. 
Ross is putting his money where his heart is, after working on a film about Seabiscuit, who captivated a very different nation back in 1938.
No screenwriter with two Oscar nominations (for "Dave" and "Big") would create a script about a horse named Atswhatimtalknabout. But the owner, G. Wayne Hughes, had already named the horse after an animated conversation at the horse sales.
"We were all having dinner, and a bunch of people kept saying it; it kind of stuck," Hughes has explained. The real chore was fitting the expression into the limit of 18 letters.
The clumsy name was a fait accompli when Ross and the husband and wife team of Frank Marshall and Kathleen Kennedy began doing research for the "Seabiscuit" movie. 
Ross had become interested in a film when Laura Hillenbrand's article on Seabiscuit appeared in the magazine American Heritage.
"I loved the world it explored, what the horse meant to the country," Ross said. "The book had already been sold to a publisher."
As Hillenbrand's book became a best seller, Ross went to his first Derby last year and asked the veteran jockey Chris McCarron to help them with their research.
"We corrupted him," Ross said. "Got him to play hooky. Chris says that was the first chink in his armor that got him to retire. Jockeys live a tough life. He hadn't taken a vacation in 20 years."
As McCarron guided the Hollywood people into the world of the backstretch, Ross and his friends began musing about owning part of a horse.
"Like all neophytes, we had no idea what this was all about," Ross said, "but Chris took us seriously. He was close to Wayne Hughes, who was nice enough to sell us a percentage."
The six partners are Ross and his wife, Allison Thomas, a producer of the movie; Kennedy and Marshall; and Stephen Spielberg and Kate Capshaw, also husband and wife. 
The worlds of entertainment and racing have intersected this week. McCarron, who played a jockey in the film, is schmoozing here this week. Gary Stevens, who also played a jockey and has been offered other parts, will ride Buddy Gil in Saturday's Derby. And Ross and some of his partners are here to cheer for Atswhatimtalknabout.
"He's a long shot -- but I like those," Ross said. He does not accept that racing is an old stogie of a sport, and says it still touches people in this revved-up age. 
"I've had the pleasure of watching races at 45 miles per hour from up close," he said, alluding to the filming process. "I knew it was a great sport. I never realized how athletic it is. You have great athletes banging into each other, making sharp turns, basically balanced on one toe on a piece of metal." 
He does not agree that there is too much dead time between races.
"It's only 20 minutes," he said. "It's part of the total experience for a family. Look, when all those movies came out, 'Field of Dreams,' 'Bull Durham,' 'The Natural,' there was a tremendous renaissance for baseball. People realized you go to the ballpark to kick back, have a beer, take a seventh-inning stretch. I think racing isn't that different."
Ross concedes that the economics of racing have led to its current marginal reputation.
"This should not be a world where you are rookie of the year and then you retire," he said. "It shouldn't be all about stud fees. You need more horses like John Henry," he said, referring to the gelding who raced forever and became a legend.
Ross tried to present his sport in its best light, filming some of the track action at beautiful Santa Anita. One of Seabiscuit's big races came at Pimlico in Baltimore -- not exactly a jewel -- but Ross wisely filmed that portion at exquisite Keeneland in the Bluegrass section of Kentucky.
His first review is in. Ron Ellis, the trainer of Atswhatimtalknabout, has seen parts of the "Seabiscuit" movie and rates it "five stars." Ellis wants Brad Pitt to play him in the future movie about Atswhatimtalknabout. If the horse is ever worth a movie, what are the odds they will change his name?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Ross, far left, the writer and director of the film "Seabiscuit," visited Atswhatimtalknbout yesterday with some of the other owners. (Jamie Squire for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); FILM (89%); WRITERS (88%); RELIGION (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); HORSES (74%); BESTSELLERS (67%) HORSE RACING; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN); MOTION PICTURES; KENTUCKY DERBY 

PERSON: DRAPE, JOE; ROSS, GARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: SEABISCUIT (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



57 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Charter Schools Grow in Suburbs, Uneasily 

BYLINE:  By JOSH BARBANEL 

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The Roanoke Avenue School, a traditional red-brick schoolhouse in a working-class suburban Long Island town, seems like an ideal place to teach children.
 As a flamenco dancer from a local college performed in the auditorium, the school's energetic and experienced principal, Dorothy Trondle, walked the hallways recently and talked about the school's innovative English curriculum and its recognition as a national "School of Excellence." 
 And yet, only a few miles down the road, a new charter school -- financed through local taxes but independently operated -- has opened, and with the promise of a structured back-to-basics program has drawn hundreds of families from the Riverhead Central Schools and surrounding districts.
The new school, the Riverhead Charter School, is both an example of how the charter school movement has begun expanding from its traditional base in cities to more affluent suburbs, and how this shift may be starting to erode political support for the charter school movement -- especially in states confronting huge budget problems. 
The idea underpinning the creation of the nation's 2,695 charter schools is that the money that districts now pay to educate a child follows the child to his new charter school, and therefore taxpayers face no added costs. Though this may make some sense in big city school districts, educators say that it falls apart in small suburban school systems. When a district loses one or two pupils per grade, they said, schools usually cannot eliminate even a single teacher. As a result, every child enrolled in the charter school means increased taxes.
Unhappiness with the costs associated with these new charter schools has already prompted key legislators in Albany -- struggling to close an $11.5 billion budget gap -- to endorse a moratorium on new charter schools and a revision of the aid formula to reduce payments to those that exist already.
And, New York is not alone. In Massachusetts, school districts are pushing for a moratorium on new charter schools and the full restoration of a program, which had been eliminated, to provide state payments to cover some of the money lost by school districts when charter schools were created.
In Indiana, where charter schools were introduced only this school year, some districts' bitter complaints have already prompted the Legislature to limit the number of new charter schools that can be authorized in the next two years.
"If there were not a financial crisis, you would see nothing close to the level of rage that you see now," said Glenn Koocher, executive director of the Massachusetts Association of School Committees. "Shortages of funds have destroyed friendships, marriages, businesses and now political collegiality."
The friction between charter schools and school districts may be most intense in states, like New York, where independent chartering authorities can authorize charter schools over the objections of local school officials. It is viewed as something akin to taxation without representation. The schools that operate under charter agreements are freed from many regulations. 
In Riverhead, the conflict between charter school supporters and local budget officials has become so intense that the Riverhead district sends out bills itemizing the amount of taxes that it says support the charter school. On Monday, complaints about the fiscal impact of the charter school led the State Board of Regents to defer action on a proposal to add a sixth grade to the school.
Several New York districts, including Riverhead, also went to court in an unsuccessful challenge to the creation of the charter school, and the districts have since refused to make direct payments to the charter school. Instead, the state is deducting the tuition payments from state aid owed to the districts.
How the charter school got started in Riverhead, a town at the base of the twin forks on Long Island, where farmland is still being bulldozed into shopping malls and homes, reflects the skepticism many parents have about the ability of suburban schools to meet the needs of some poor minority students.
"We believe that competition will make everyone better," said Steven Cohen, the principal who opened the charter school a year and a half ago, in a former public school in the hamlet of Calverton. Mr. Cohen, a former New York City public school principal, said that after a difficult start in the fall of 2001, his school is making steady progress.
But many in town are resentful of the new school, which because of the state financing formula would be exempt from any budget cuts in the next school year. In Riverhead, taxpayers have been warned to expect a 14 percent property tax increase this year, and elimination of 27 teachers, social workers and other professionals, along with 12 school aides. 
"We feel that if there are cutbacks here, there should be cutbacks in the charter," said George L. Duffy III, the Riverhead superintendent. "This is a very hot issue for us."
While Mr. Duffy and other educators say the issue is a matter of dollars and cents, the charter school proponents believe that the fiscal issues have simply given their traditional opponents -- unions and school bureaucracies -- new ammunition against them.
Charter school supporters say that some parents need an alternative to traditional public schools.
"They are serving the majority of students well, but not everybody," said Stephen Charkow, a former Riverhead school board member and the president of the Riverhead Charter School Board of Trustees. "There were some kids falling through the cracks. Achievement was too low. The suspension rate was too high."
The charter school signed on with the Edison Schools, a large for-profit company that operates 150 schools in 23 states and the District of Columbia. In classrooms, students wearing blue, red or green T-shirts, depending on grade, strictly follow the same Edison program used in urban schools across the country. They use reading programs and math lessons that vary little from classroom to classroom and school to school. There is a lengthy discipline code, and students who behave and follow the rules are awarded points listed on a bulletin board, and vie for powerful rewards. 
The main appeal to families seems to be a rigorous focus on math and reading, beginning in kindergarten; a longer school day; and the promise of personal attention, including frequent parent conferences.
Sometimes families turn to the charter school when their home school has recommended that a child be evaluated for special education, officials say. One mother who toured the charter school recently worried that her first-grade son was not getting enough one-to-one reading help at her home school district. 
The Riverhead Charter School has attracted mostly minority students -- two-thirds black and 9 percent Hispanic -- and as in Edison's urban counterparts, a majority of the students were poor and eligible for free or reduced-price lunches. Although the school reported admitting 227 students in its first year, scores of students left during the school year, and Riverhead was able to bill only for 151 full-time students.
In New York State, the financing formula is based on an average cost of educating a child in the local schools over the previous three years. Budget cuts this year would not affect the formula. The tuition per child is based on costs in the home school district, which is much higher in the suburbs than in the city. For example, the Riverhead charter received more than $15,000 per child for two children from the wealthy Southampton community.
This year the school had state permission to enroll 350 students but enrolled only 297, and it has seen enrollment drop to 280 during the year. It now has about 120 Riverhead students, or nearly 5 percent of all students in kindergarten through fifth grade in Riverhead. 
During its first year, test scores at the charter school were dismal. Only 30 percent of students met state standards on the fourth-grade math test, and 36 percent on the English test. But Mr. Cohen expects much higher scores this year.
At the Riverhead public schools, test results are nearly double the scores in the charter school. But they are far below scores in more affluent Long Island districts.
And this year, when New York State released test scores for individual racial groups, it became clear that black and Hispanic students in the public schools performed far below their white counterparts. This led to a concerted effort to improve scores this year, including a reorganization of the schools. Fourth graders were moved back to their four neighborhood schools from a single districtwide school. 
Riverhead officials said the changes, including an effort a few years back to introduce full-day kindergarten, had nothing to do with the competition from charter schools. Mr. Cohen, the charter school principal, says he is skeptical.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Xiomara White with her kindergarten class at the Roanoke Avenue School in Riverhead, Long Island. A charter school has opened nearby, causing a conflict between its supporters and public school officials. (Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Nancy Adams overseeing her kindergarten class at the Riverhead Charter School in Calverton, N.Y., which opened a year and a half ago. (Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (93%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DANCE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); DANCERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; TAXATION 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



58 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: India Announces Steps in Effort To End Its Conflict With Pakistan 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, May 2 

 BODY:
Saying he was making one last effort at peace, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee announced in Parliament today that India would restore diplomatic and air links with Pakistan.
 The announcement broke a 16-month stalemate that began after an attack on Parliament here in December 2001. India laid the blame for the attack on Pakistan, which has backed a 14-year Islamic insurgency in the part of Kashmir governed by India. 
 After the attack, India recalled its high commissioner, suspended air, road and rail links and deployed hundreds of thousands of extra troops along its border with Pakistan. Western diplomats have said the two nuclear-armed nations were twice at the brink of war. 
Mr. Vajpayee hinted that the sending of a high commissioner and restoration of civil aviation links could be the first steps of a more ambitious journey.
"The talks this time will be decisive," Mr. Vajpayee, 78, said. "At least in my life this is the last time I will be making an attempt" to resolve the India-Pakistan dispute.
"I am confident I will succeed," he added.
Hours later, Pakistan's foreign minister, Mian Khursheed Mehmood Kasuri, said that his country would also upgrade diplomatic relations to their normal status, and that Pakistani officials were ready to start talks "on all outstanding issues between the two countries, including that of Jammu and Kashmir."
Jammu and Kashmir is India's only Muslim majority state, and has been at the heart of the strained relations between India and Pakistan for more than half a century. Both countries claim the border territory of Kashmir in its entirety.
The Indian statement caught many by surprise today. "It's breathtaking," said Naresh Chandra, a former Indian ambassador to the United States.
The move is a rapid and stunning reversal from the hard line that India has taken for months, insisting it would not talk to Pakistan unless it permanently ended the infiltration of militants from its territory into India. The statement provides, for the first time in over a year, an opening to defuse what has become one of the world's most dangerous standoffs.
Last fall, India redeployed the forces it had massed on the border after the attack at Parliament, but the tensions in the subcontinent have remained a continuing source of concern for the United States. 
In a trip planned before Mr. Vajpayee's initiative, Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage plans to visit both Pakistan and India next week to try to break the deadlock. 
Today, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell called Mr. Vajpayee's announcement "very, very promising."
A senior Indian official said, "The prime minister has chosen to make one more effort, and one more very well thought-out effort." The decision, he added, had been made "to give it our best shot."
The official said initial steps would be taken to build confidence and trust on both sides, with the assumption that Pakistan would reciprocate. The hope was that these steps would then create the momentum for talks.
The prime minister believed, the official said, that while talks required more patience, they would bring a "more durable and more desirable solution" than any recourse to arms. He predicted a "bumpy road," but a fruitful result.
Two weeks ago, on a visit to Kashmir, Mr. Vajpayee ended months of harsh statements by Indian officials and announced he was extending a "hand of friendship" to Pakistan.
He later reiterated the statement in Parliament, although he insisted that India's conditions of a halt to anti-Indian terrorism coming from Pakistani territory had not changed.
On Monday, Pakistan's prime minister, Mir Zafarullah Khan Jamali, called Mr. Vajpayee to extend his appreciation for the Indian prime minister's words. They discussed ways of improving bilateral ties, including restoring air links.
By making a first move today, Mr. Vajpayee is taking on hard-liners in his own party who have argued for taking action against Pakistan. But in a sign that he has some political cover for now, a leader of the Sangh Parivar -- the family of Hindu nationalist organizations to which Mr. Vajpayee's party belongs -- suggested on Thursday that they would not oppose a peace initiative.
"He's the one who can get away with it," Mr. Chandra, the former ambassador, said of the prime minister, who has managed both to hold together a coalition government and placate the Sangh Parivar. "I hope Pakistanis see this is the best time."
Twice before, Mr. Vajpayee has reached out to Pakistan, only to be met with what India saw as blatant, even mocking, rebuffs. In February 1999, he visited Lahore, only to have Pakistan begin a miniwar along the line of control that separates the two parts of Kashmir.
In July 2001, he invited President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan to a summit meeting in Agra, but the meeting ended in discord, followed by the attack on Parliament six months later.
Mr. Vajpayee said today that he was making his "third and final" effort at peace. "Even for me, it is a decisive and conclusive step," he said. "We are committed to improvement of relations with Pakistan, and we are willing to grasp every opportunity to do so."
In a potentially significant statement, Pakistan's information minister, Sheik Rashid Ahmed, said any talks that took place would be between Mr. Vajpayee and Mr. Jamali, not with Mr. Musharraf, whom senior Indian officials now view with distrust. "Soon both prime ministers are going to see each other," Mr. Ahmed said in an interview with New Delhi Television News.
The senior Indian official said a number of factors had motivated the prime minister. 
His government had been widely praised for overseeing the first largely free and fair election in Kashmir in many years, resulting in a new government in the state and new efforts to lessen Kashmiris' alienation from India. After his visit to Kashmir two weeks ago, the official said, the prime minister was eager to consolidate the changes he saw there. 
He has also alluded several times to the American-led war on Iraq, which India opposed, as containing a warning for poor and developing nations.
The political situation is also conducive for change. This is typically the beginning of "jihadi season," as some call the infiltration of Islamic militants across mountain passes into India. There have been fears that should militants conduct a major attack, as they did with the killing of 24 Hindus in Kashmir in March, India would retaliate with limited airstrikes.
But an Indian defense official speaking on the condition of anonymity said there had been "nothing significant" in terms of infiltration since the end of March, when the snow melts and the rebels' infiltration traditionally begins.
In his comments, Mr. Vajpayee also raised the issue of economic relations, saying India would be looking for concessions from Pakistan. Pakistan still maintains a so-called "negative list" of Indian items it bars from import, and India has long sought most-favored-nation status from its neighbor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee in New Delhi yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CIVIL AVIATION (74%); TERRORISM (72%); RELIGION (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); AIRLINES (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; VAJPAYEE, ATAL BIHARI (PRIME MIN); KASURI, KHURSHID MAHMUD (MIN); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) KASHMIR (95%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (93%) INDIA (99%); ASIA (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) INDIA; PAKISTAN; KASHMIR AND JAMMU

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



59 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: THE NEW STRATEGY; 
U.S. Plans to Reduce Forces In Iraq, With Help of Allies

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON with ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 2 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is planning to withdraw most United States combat forces from Iraq over the next several months and wants to shrink the American military presence to less than two divisions by the fall, senior allied officials said today.
 The United States currently has more than five divisions in Iraq, troops that fought their way into the country and units that were added in an attempt to stabilize it. But the Bush administration is trying to establish a new military structure in which American troops would continue to secure Baghdad while the majority of the forces in Iraq would be from other nations. 
 Under current planning, there would be three sectors in postwar Iraq. The Americans would keep a division in and around Baghdad; Britain would command a multinational division in the south near Basra; and Poland would command a third division of troops from a variety of nations. 
The British are organizing a "force generation" conference next week in London to solicit troops for the effort, and another conference is likely to be held later this month in Warsaw.
The Bush administration's aim is to bring most of the American troops here back to their bases in the United States and Europe so they can prepare for potential crises.
The administration does not want substantial numbers of American forces to be tied down in Iraq. It is eager to avoid the specter of American occupation, and it is hoping to shift much of the peacekeeping burden of stabilizing Iraq to other governments.
If the administration plan is carried out, the effect would be to reduce the number of American troops in Iraq from over 130,000 soldiers and marines at present to 30,000 troops or fewer by the fall.
Still, the American troop withdrawal schedule, by all accounts, is ambitious given the continued instability in Iraq and the size of the country.
The guidance given to military commanders is that they should be prepared to assume risks in reducing the American forces just as they did when they fought their way into the country, according to allied officials.
In this case the risk involves leaving some areas of Iraq uncovered or with a minimal troop presence -- an approach the military calls "economy of force" -- before order is fully restored throughout the country.
American and allied forces would still concentrate on maintaining order in Baghdad, other major cities and the main routes allied forces use to transport supplies and troop movements. 
American military officials cautioned that the timetable for rapid troop reductions depended on several conditions and that the withdrawal schedule would be likely to slow down if the conditions were not met.
First, they said, the security situation in Baghdad and Iraq must improve. American officials are calculating that there will be a reduction in criminal activity, paramilitary attacks and general lawlessness as the Iraqi police complete their training and begin to take over patrols. American commanders are also assuming that some sort of transitional Iraqi government will be established in the next two months.
Another condition is that the other nations will provide the necessary troops.
The new troop deployment plans were described today by senior allied and administraton officials. The deployment plan was also a topic of discussion of an unusual meeting here of American and British division commanders and other senior officials.
According to a senior administration official, the goal is to reduce the American force to a single division.
Achieving this goal would depend, in part, on the number of foreign troop contributions. "The larger the number of countries that participate, the fewer the number of forces from the United States will be necessary," Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld told reporters in London today before flying back to Washington from a seven-nation tour.
Under the planning, the British would maintain a headquarters to command a multinational division to be based in Basra and elsewhere in southern Iraq. That division would be made up of a British brigade and possibly forces from other nations, including Spain and Italy, which are expected to send troops.
Poland would also command a division and has offered to contribute a brigade of troops.
The Australians, who have sent special forces to Iraq, are expected to keep a small military presence in Iraq. Other nations that are expected to contribute troops include Bulgaria, Denmark, Ukraine and the Netherlands. 
Three more nations -- the Philippines, Qatar and South Korea -- have agreed to make other contributions, including field hospitals, engineers, and civil defense and mine-clearing specialists, the official said.
A senior allied official said today there had been discussions about the possibility of troop contributions from India and Pakistan, creating yet another division of troops. 
A recent and largely symbolic contribution is the deployment of some 200 Albanian soldiers.
As of now, however, the American-led effort pointedly excludes France, Germany and Russia, three nations that actively opposed the war. 
A fierce fight over the role the United Nations will have in postwar Iraq is expected to be fought in Washington, New York and the capitals of Europe and the Middle East over the next few weeks.
The Bush administration's push to withdraw combat forces raises a number of complex issues. American military commanders and administration officials have emphasized that it is not enough to topple Saddam Hussein's government but also vital to consolidate that victory by creating a secure environment for rebuilding the nation's infrastructure and encouraging the formation of a new government.
In his speech on Thursday, President Bush pledged that the allied forces would bring order to parts of Iraq that were still dangerous and would not leave until their mission was completed.
Even so, the allied force that is now deployed is extended to the limit as it seeks to deal with criminal gangs, remnants of Mr. Hussein's government, Iranian agents, suicide bombers, ambitious Iraqi politicians and their militias and other threats to the new order.
It remains to be seen how well the Americans and their allies will be able to carry out this task if American forces are substantially reduced and American and British forces are replaced by troops from Eastern Europe and Asia.
The situation in Iraq is now so uncertain that American forces plan to keep rules of engagement that allow them to initiate offensive operations even as they make the transition to "peace enforcement." 
In the weeks leading up to the war, the Army chief of staff, Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, said that as many as several hundred thousand troops would be needed to bring stability to Iraq. Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary, put the number at around 100,000.
The force that allied planners seem to have in mind seems closer to Mr. Wolfowitz's figure, though only a fraction of them would be American.
The United States now has a broad array of forces in Iraq. The Army forces here include the Third Infantry Division, which is charged with maintaining order in Baghdad; the Fourth Infantry Division, which is overseeing Tikrit and is patrolling east of capital; and the 101st Airborne Division, which is has headquarters in Mosul.
Other Army forces in Iraq include the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment, which is patrolling the western part of the country, including the town of Falluja. Most of the units of the 82nd Airborne Division in Iraq are in the process of withdrawing, but some of its troops will remain in Baghdad. The Second Light Cavalry Regiment also has some forces in Baghdad, and more of its troops are to be deployed in Iraq.
A large Marine expeditionary force is charged with maintaining order in the Iraq's southern cities while British forces are in Basra.
The large American component of this force would be reduced by the fall to less than two American divisions and one British-led multinational division, according to the Bush administration's plans. The key American force would be the First Armored Division, which would be based in Baghdad, taking the place of the Army's Third Infantry Division. A division generally totals from 15,000 to 20,000 soldiers depending on the number of support troops.
The success of the redeployment will depend not just on the military's success in hunting down remnants of the old order but also on success in restoring electricity and other services, rebuilding the infrastructure, supporting the formation of a new government and generally securing the support of the Iraqi public.
There is as yet no interim Iraqi administration. Most of the discussions that have been held by senior American officials here on forming one have included representatives of groups that have been in exile abroad as well as representatives of the two main Kurdish factions. Which leaders and exile groups will take part in a temporary administration is still unclear.
But the administration is calculating that these are temporary problems and that political trends will improve and will allow the disengagement of most American troops.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American Army soldiers maintained order at a gas station that caught fire and exploded on Thursday as a result of bullets being fired in the air. The main job for G.I.'s left in Iraq will be to keep Baghdad secure. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A8) Map of Iraq highlighting Baghdad: American troops will now concentrate on security in Baghdad. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); POLICE FORCES (57%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; SCHMITT, ERIC; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; POLAND; BASRA (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



60 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Solid Fund-Raising By Lyndon Larouche 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Lyndon LaRouche, a longtime candidate for president who runs as a Democrat, has compiled enough cash to rival some of the mainstream Democrats in the 2004 race. Mr. LaRouche, an 80-year-old economist, has raised more than $3.7 million over the years, much of it through small donations and the Internet. Mr. LaRouche first ran for president in 1976 and has tried every election since, including a 1992 campaign from prison while serving 5 years of a 15-year sentence for mail fraud and defaulting on more than $30 million in loans from campaign supporters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); FUNDRAISING (87%); SENTENCING (85%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; FINANCES 

PERSON: LAROUCHE, LYNDON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



61 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: UAL Reports Steepest Loss In Airline Industry for Quarter 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, May 2 

 BODY:
The UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, today reported the biggest quarterly loss of any major United States airline as the war in Iraq discouraged travel and raised fuel costs.
 The $1.34 billion net loss topped that of the AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines, which posted a $1 billion first-quarter loss last week and narrowly averted bankruptcy for the third time after winning wage concessions from labor unions. 
 "It could have been a lot worse, which is the good news; the bad news is, it is not a lot better," Richard Bittenbender, senior credit officer at Moody's Investors Service, said of UAL's results. 
UAL, which filed for bankruptcy protection in December, said its loss was $14.16 a share, compared with a loss of $510 million, or $9.22 a share, in the quarter a year earlier. Operating revenue fell to $3.18 billion from $3.29 billion a year earlier.
"The first quarter was particularly difficult, given travelers' concerns about the conflict in Iraq, the weak economy and a fierce low-fare environment, as well as speculation about our company's future -- speculation that is now abating," the chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, said.
Others agreed with Mr. Tilton's assessment that while the first-quarter numbers were bleak, fears of outright liquidation were declining.
"UAL posted an unexpectedly weak first quarter, but there are definite signs of light at the end of the tunnel," a Lehman Brothers analyst, Gary Chase, said.
Mr. Chase cited labor concession packages approved by a bankruptcy court, government aid and falling fuel prices as factors that tip the scales in favor of an eventual exit from bankruptcy protection. 
United said it ended the first quarter with $1.6 billion in cash, with $644 million of that restricted for payment of certain obligations. 
Shares of UAL rose 7.5 cents, or 6.3 percent, to $1.265. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%) COMPANY REPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (95%); AMR CORP (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; AMR CORP 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



62 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: How to Get Syria Out of the Terrorism Business 

BYLINE:  By Flynt Leverett; Flynt Leverett, a visiting fellow at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution, was senior director for Middle East affairs at the National Security Council from February 2002 to March 2003.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The military victory over Saddam Hussein's regime has empowered some officials in the Bush administration to push for similarly decisive action against other state sponsors of terrorism. For the hardliners, Syria has become the preferred next target in the war on terrorism.
 I know because I've been hearing the argument a lot in recent days. For the last eight years, I have been directly involved in United States policymaking toward Syria, as a C.I.A. analyst, on the State Department's policy planning staff and at the White House. In all that time, I have never seen officials as willing to take on the Syrian regime as they are today. 
 The current concern about Syria is understandable. A longtime supporter of terrorist groups, Syria has developed weapons of mass destruction. Moreover, Syria backed Saddam Hussein to the bitter end, demonstrating a troubling willingness to challenge American interests. 
But Syria also presents the administration with a strategic opportunity that would be imprudent not to explore. Since the 9/11 attacks, the problem of how to get states out of the terrorism business has been a defining question for American foreign policy. In Afghanistan and Iraq, we achieved this end by toppling irredeemable regimes. But can we change the behavior of a terrorism-sponsoring state like Syria without unseating its regime? Is it possible to reform Syria's posture not through force, but through diplomatic engagement?
The answer is a qualified yes. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's visit to Damascus today has the potential to be the first stage in this experiment. 
The success of engagement depends in large measure on Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad. Mr. Assad is not an ideological fanatic like Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban leader, or an incorrigible thug like Saddam Hussein. He is young, educated partly in the West and married to a British-born woman who was once in J.P. Morgan's executive training program. He has also made it clear that Syria needs to modernize, and that its long-term interests would be served by better relations with the United States. 
While Mr. Assad's inclinations make engagement plausible as a strategy, constraints on his effective authority mean that diplomatic success is far from assured. Mr. Assad was only 34 when he became president upon the death of his father, Hafez, in June 2000. Until then, most of his political career had been spent as head of the government-run Syrian Computer Society. Still encumbered by several of his father's key advisers, he does not yet have the standing to make fundamental changes in policy on his own. One has only to observe the Syrian president in meetings where he is accompanied by his foreign minister (in office since 1984) or his vice president (a key regime figure since the 1970's) to appreciate the constraints he faces. 
For this reason, it will not be enough for American officials simply to show up in Damascus, present a list of complaints about Syrian ties to Hezbollah and Hamas, and expect Mr. Assad to take action. Syria's leaders have heard these complaints before and have offered little more than canned rhetoric as a response.
This time around we should avoid generalities and consistently identify for Mr. Assad the specific steps he needs to take. These might include closing the Damascus offices of Palestinian terrorist groups like Hamas and Islamic Jihad, expelling terrorist leaders like Jihad's Ramadan Shallah, and stopping Iranian supplies for Hezbollah from moving through Syria on the way to Lebanon.
We should then outline a series of measures we would undertake if Syria fails to act. We might start with additional economic sanctions -- like barring Syria from participating in Iraqi reconstruction or imposing a comprehensive trade embargo -- and end with covert and possibly overt attacks against terrorism-related targets in Syria or Lebanon. 
But given Mr. Assad's political constraints, sticks alone will not produce more than short-term tactical adjustments in Syrian behavior. To bring about real change, we must also offer concrete benefits in exchange for meeting our demands. Doing so would enable Mr. Assad to demonstrate to the regime's inner circle that Syrian interests would be better served by cooperation with us than by a gradually intensifying confrontation. 
In this regard, an important incentive to offer Mr. Assad is a role in a genuine strategic discussion about the region's future. In the years after the 1991 Persian Gulf war, Syria's principal forum for having its regional interests considered by the United States was the Syrian track of the Middle East peace process. Since President Bill Clinton's summit with Hafez Assad in Geneva in April 2000, however, there has been no Syrian track. Diplomatic marginalization has been a source of frustration for Syria -- and it's one that will probably intensify as the country becomes encircled by pro-Western states (including, now, Iraq). We should therefore indicate a willingness to begin talking with Mr. Assad about Syria's regional interests, but only on the condition that he take steps to cut his country's links to terrorism. 
The United States should also make clear that it is prepared to remove Syria from the list of state sponsors of terrorism. In the 1990's, we made Syria's removal from the list contingent on a peace treaty with Israel that never came; we should now tie removal to changes in Syria's relations with terrorists. Taking Syria off the list would allow American economic aid to flow to the country for the first time in decades and substantially increase assistance from international financial institutions.
Getting Syria out of the terrorism business through diplomatic engagement would be a major achievement in itself, both for our counterterrorism campaign and our Middle East policy. Perhaps more significantly, success with Syria could establish hard-nosed engagement as the most effective way to confront, and eventually to change, the behavior of states that back terrorism. In this regard, Secretary Powell's journey to Damascus could mark a new stage of the war on terrorism -- one that will enable the Bush administration to match its military achievements with even more impressive diplomatic accomplishments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (70%); MANAGER TRAINING (68%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%) LEVERETT, FLYNT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) SYRIA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



63 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Bush Begins Campaign to Sell His Economic Program 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 2 

 BODY:
A day after declaring the ouster of Saddam Hussein's government complete, President Bush confronted rising unemployment today and turned back to his tax-cut battles with Congress in what White House officials say will be a strong drive to refocus the nation on his domestic agenda.
 "We need a bold economic recovery package so people can find work," Mr. Bush told a cheering crowd of defense workers here, just a few hours after the announcement that the nation's jobless rate had risen to 6 percent. It is a statistic that clearly has Mr. Bush's political advisers concerned as they map out a campaign to show that the president has put as much effort into the domestic economy as in unseating Saddam Hussein. 
 "That 6 percent number should say loud and clear to both political parties in the United States Congress we need robust tax relief so people can find work," the president said.
Mr. Bush made his appeal in the heart of Silicon Valley, the place American politicians have used for two decades to hail American innovation and technological leadership. 
But in a telling departure from previous efforts to use the valley as a political backdrop, Mr. Bush's motorcade sped past the semiconductor plants and software houses and pulled into the well-protected grounds of United Defense Industries, which produces the Bradley fighting vehicle, tanks and other equipment that became familiar to television viewers watching the 350-mile race to Baghdad last month.
Missing from the crowd was the usual collection of high-technology entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and engineers who became the symbols of economic growth in the 1990's. Mr. Bush separated himself from the boom-time mentality that seized the valley until three years ago, suggesting that much of the success was "based upon what I would call, maybe, pie-in-the-sky projections: 'Don't worry, we don't have any cash-flow, but nevertheless, we've got a nice story.' " 
Several leading Silicon Valley executives, reached by e-mail messages and telephone, said they were not invited to Mr. Bush's event.
The politics of a presidential appearance here have clearly changed. When Mr. Bush took office, the unemployment rate in the San Jose metropolitan area, at the southern end of the valley, was 1.7 percent, one of the lowest in the nation. It rose to 8.5 percent in February, the last period reported for the area by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and many economists here say they believe it may be as high as 10 percent.
Those numbers, though, have not won Mr. Bush much support for his tax-cut plan in this area, where many are interested in more specific tax cuts to promote the sale of high-technology goods, as well as federal purchases of new computers and a trade policy to deal with competition from engineers in China, India and other nations capable of developing software that was once developed here. 
The San Jose Mercury News, in an editorial, told Mr. Bush to keep his proposal for at least $550 billion in tax cuts but to focus on efforts to build up a region where, just a few years ago, high-technology entrepreneurs argued that the federal government could keep the boom going by getting out of its way.
The president arrived here fresh from the carrier Abraham Lincoln, where he slept in the captain's quarters on Thursday night and met senior officers for breakfast this morning. At United Defense Industries, with tanks, fighting vehicles and flags in the background, he offered a reprise of parts of the speech he gave to the nation on Thursday from the Lincoln's flight deck, once again melding the fight against terrorism with his decision to unseat Mr. Hussein.
He drew laughter and applause when he recalled how troops used a Hercules tank recovery vehicle to help pull down a statue of Mr. Hussein in Baghdad at the moment, in retrospect, when it was clear that the Iraqi government had fallen.
"The guy with the sledgehammer on the statue needed a little help," Mr. Bush said to cheers. "Thankfully, there was a Hercules close by."
He called the toppling of the statue a moment "that meant more to the Iraqi people than you can possibly imagine."
The speech was notable for its focus on the economy, and its effort to turn the political capital he built up with a quick war victory into currency he can use in Congress as lawmakers shape tax legislation.
He called again for the elimination of the tax on corporate dividends, even though members of his own party have backed away from that proposal, and his own White House endorsed, tepidly, a move in the House to lower the tax rate on dividends and capital gains rather than eliminate them. He said again that Congress needed to pass a tax cut of "at least $550 billion," though the Senate, so far, has capped the cuts at $350 billion.
The core of Mr. Bush's argument today was that the tax cut would stimulate the economy, and that stimulus in time would reverse fast-growing deficits. The deficit in this fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30, is expected to reach $385 billion. Mr. Bush said today that the deficits were caused by the combination of recession and war costs.
Mr. Bush equated tax cuts with job growth today, even though many economists have suggested that there would be more direct and swifter ways to create employment. Here in the valley, several entrepreneurs have said that the period of their greatest job growth, the late 1990's, when firms here were adding staff members faster than sales and profits could support them, came after a period of tax-rate stability. 
The president did not directly address the arguments made by the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, who said again this week that the economy might not need any further stimulus and that tax cuts should be matched with spending cuts.
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, said in a statement in response to the speech that "against the advice of Chairman Greenspan and the consensus of economists, the Republican leadership is pushing another dose of a prescription that has already failed." 
"Congress needs to produce a real economic growth plan that creates jobs and secures our future prosperity," Mr. Daschle added. "Regrettably, the Bush plan won't create jobs now, but will create deficits as far as the eye can see."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about efforts by President Bush to refocus the nation on his economic agenda misstated several words in his remarks about the latest unemployment figure and his call for a tax cut. He said, "That 6 percent number should say loud and clear to members of both political parties in the United States Congress, we need robust tax relief so our fellow citizens can find a job" -- not "so people can find work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, at United Defense Industries in Santa Clara, Calif., said, "We need a bold economic recovery package so people can find work." It was announced earlier that the nation's jobless rate was up to 6 percent. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); SALES & SELLING (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); SEMICONDUCTORS (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (51%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; TAXATION 

COMPANY: UNITED DEFENSE INDUSTRIES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3795 TANKS & TANK COMPONENTS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



64 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: South Carolina Takes Spotlight In Democrats' Race for 2004 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., May 2 

 BODY:
Forget Iowa and New Hampshire. South Carolina has become the hot new early primary state for the Democratic Party. Voters here are bracing for what may be the most contested, and potentially influential, Democratic presidential primary the state has seen in years.
 Today, this city was buzzing with contenders and their aides at a premier event, the annual fish fry, in a downtown garage. On Saturday, the nine Democratic contenders gather downtown for their first campaign debate, a choice that is testimony to this state's growing prestige. 
 South Carolina is the lone state that every major Democratic contender is planning to play to win; no better-than-expected second-place finishes allowed here. At least six have laid out plausible cases for why they could finish first, which suggests that this could end up the most competitive primary of 2004.
The importance of South Carolina could recast how the party selects its nominee, by effectively addressing what has long been a concern of many Democrats, the disproportionate influence of two nearly all-white states, Iowa and New Hampshire, on the selection. About half the voters who turn out in the Democratic primary here are expected to be African-American, Democrats here say. That is a factor that would almost certainly influence how the contenders shape their campaigns, like their travel plans and their promises in the early days of the contest.
Some contenders are already ensnared in an issue most would prefer to avoid, requiring them to take a stand on an economic boycott of South Carolina, promoted by the N.A.A.C.P., to force the removal of a Confederate flag from the grounds of the State House.
"It makes this state, and it makes the African-American vote in this state, very important to this presidential race," Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, said today after appearing at a commemoration for Vietnam veterans with a contender, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, a Vietnam veteran.
Mr. Clyburn, who is black and who was host of the fish fry, added, "The demographics of New Hampshire have, I think, been detrimental to the Democratic Party nominee."
All this is largely a matter of the calendar. South Carolina has jumped to the front of the line, setting its Democratic primary for Feb. 3, a week after New Hampshire. The last Democratic primary in South Carolina was in March 1992, though Republicans have continued to fight out big and important nominating contests here, as Democrats have glumly watched from the sidelines.
For all the attention on the state, South Carolina will not be the only state holding a contest on Feb. 3, and it will thus not have the primacy that Democratic leaders here were hoping for a few weeks ago. Five other states -- Arizona, Delaware, Missouri, New Mexico and Oklahoma -- have also set primaries or caucuses for that day, a bit of leapfrogging that has knocked this state down a rung or two on the influence ladder.
Nonetheless, for reasons having to do with everything from time zones to the racial makeup of the Democratic Party, not to mention the importance of winning a few Southern states, this state has appeared to achieve a level of influence disproportionate to its size.
"We have never had this one early and getting this much national attention," said Donald L. Fowler, the former national Democratic chairman who is a South Carolinian. 
For this presidential election, at least, New Hampshire and Iowa probably have nothing to worry about. Iowa will lead the process, followed by New Hampshire. As ever, those two contests are highly likely to reduce the field. Though the first debate, sponsored by ABC News and to be broadcast four times on Sunday by C-SPAN, will not be in either state, they are where the candidates are spending the bulk of their time.
Different candidates have strategically focused on different states. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri is looking to Iowa. Mr. Kerry and Dr. Howard Dean, former governor of Vermont, are looking to New Hampshire. But South Carolina is the one state where every major candidate is in for the hunt.
"It's a state where everybody seems to have made an affirmative choice to run an aggressive campaign," said Bill Carrick, a South Carolinian who is Mr. Gephardt's media adviser.
Part of the interest reflects that this is an easy place to run a primary campaign. South Carolina is just four hours by car from east to west and is not an expensive place to buy television advertising, an important consideration when there will be six nominating campaigns. Part of the interest also stems from the state's being diverse in many ways.
Senator John Edwards of North Carolina has come close to staking his entire campaign on a victory here, noting at every opportunity that he spent his early years in South Carolina, lives just across the border and is the lone Southerner seeking the nomination.
Or was. Senator Bob Graham of Florida is to join the contest officially on Tuesday, and many Democrats argue that he has as strong a claim on victory here as Mr. Edwards.
Mr. Gephardt is said by many Democrats here to be likely to win the much sought-after endorsement of his fellow House member, Mr. Clyburn, the popular Democrat whose support, many South Carolinians said, could be pivotal next year. 
Mr. Clyburn, clearly enjoying the spotlight, responded to a question about Mr. Gephardt by saying, "I endorse all nine of the candidates." 
Mr. Kerry's appearance with veterans reflected the fact, as his advisers pointed out, that the state has a sizable and influential contingent of veterans.
The Rev. Al Sharpton of New York, who is black, argued that he could slip in through a multicandidate field. 
"It's important because it's the South," Mr. Sharpton said, "and it's important, because it's the most diverse voting population in the early primaries." 
That six states will vote on Feb. 3 is certain to dilute South Carolina's influence. The candidates are going to spend the days before Feb. 3 in the air, flying from West to East to West, or on the air, in the form of television advertisements.
But South Carolina has one big advantage, being in the Eastern time zone. Its results will almost certainly be known before those of other states, almost guaranteeing that its numbers will shape the next-day coverage.
South Carolinians are doing whatever they need to make sure the moment does not pass them by. They scoff at the notion that a candidate would want to spend a moment anywhere but here.
"Anyone who leaves this fight and writes off South Carolina is in effect writing off the South," Richard A. Harpootlian, the departing Democratic chairman, said. "That's the message they're going to send."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, left, of Connecticut and Bob Graham of Florida yesterday awaiting a flight from Washington to Columbia, S.C. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); VETERANS (62%); BOYCOTTS (50%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); GRAHAM, BOB (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) SOUTH CAROLINA; NEW HAMPSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



65 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Agrees to Sell Food Supplier 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
In an unusual strategic disposal, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said yesterday that it would sell its McLane Company division to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in a $1.45 billion deal that puts Berkshire Hathaway in position to become the dominant player in the food-distribution industry.
 For Wal-Mart, selling a piece of itself is a rare event: one company executive could not recall it happening before. For Berkshire Hathaway, which is based in Omaha, the purchase seems especially well timed, with many of McLane's competitors like the Fleming Companies and the U.S. Foodservice unit of Royal Ahold either floundering or under investigation. While McLane will still handle its distribution for Wal-Mart, the shift in ownership will free it to pursue distribution contracts with Wal-Mart competitors like Target and Dollar General as well as supermarket chains. 
 A celebration erupted at McLane's home office in Temple, Tex., when the sale was announced yesterday morning, said a spokeswoman, Kimberly Woodard. "We're definitely optimistic about our growth now," she said, adding that executives poured everyone coffee, not Champagne. 
McLane, which is already the largest distributor to corner stores in the country, had sales of $22 billion last year in cigarettes, tobacco, candy and other items delivered to Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores as well as to 7-Eleven, Exxon Mobil convenience stores and fast food restaurants like Kentucky Fried Chicken. 
Warren E. Buffett, the chairman and principal stakeholder in Berkshire Hathaway, said in a statement that he, too, expected growth from his latest acquisition. "Grady Rosier has developed a service-oriented organization that supplies tens of thousands of locations in an extraordinarily efficient manner," he said, referring to McLane's chief executive. "We believe there is an excellent possibility for expansion of the customer base in the future."
Financial experts who follow Mr. Buffett said his purchase of McLane was very much in the pattern of his other acquisitions in recent years, including companies that make bricks, boots and carpets.
"He likes simple businesses, businesses that are not complex," said Robert G. Hagstrom, the author of several books on Mr. Buffett and a senior vice president at Legg Mason, a financial services firm in Baltimore.
The grocery delivery business fits that description. It is also a business that is unlikely to fundamentally change the way it operates or be threatened by new inventions, which Mr. Hagstrom said are other characteristics that Mr. Buffett seeks.
"He likes companies that make things that people are going to continue to need," Mr. Hagstrom said. "They are going to continue to need groceries."
Burt Flickinger, managing partner with the Strategic Resource Group, a retail consulting firm, called the deal "a real home run for both Wal-Mart and Buffett," adding that an estimated $7 billion in food-distribution sales will be in play if Fleming does not emerge from its Chapter 11 bankruptcy court filing. Fleming, which sought bankruptcy protection last month, has not announced a long-term financing plan and some suppliers have said Fleming underestimated the amount of money owed to them for products already delivered, Mr. Flickinger added. 
For McLane, switching from the Wal-Mart culture to the Berkshire Hathaway culture should not be painful, analysts and others said. Both companies drape their competitiveness in a down-home manner. Mr. Buffett has visited Wal-Mart, which is based in Bentonville, Ark., to speak at its Saturday morning meeting for store managers in the last year or so, and is said to be an admirer of Wal-Mart. "He's familiar with us in a variety of different ways," said a company spokesman, Jay Allen, adding that he did not know whether Mr. Buffett was a shareholder. 
Wal-Mart's decision to sell reflects a desire to concentrate on the company's food and general-merchandise operations, without distraction from other types of businesses. "We're going to focus on our core retail business and that includes not just stores in different formats, but the services in and around our stores, like gasoline and financial services," Mr. Allen said. 
The company plans to use the cash from the deal to pay down debt and repurchase some of its own shares, he added. "You won't see us build X more stores because of this," he said. "We have a pretty aggressive growth strategy as it is." 
One analyst saw the move as Wal-Mart's effort to shed a business where profits are narrow and prospects seemed dimmer than when Wal-Mart purchased it 13 years ago. "Their operating margins are razor thin, about 2 percent, and the economics of convenience stores, which is mostly what they serve, are not appealing," said the analyst, Emme P. Kozloff of Sanford C. Bernstein. In addition, cigarette prices may be declining, which would trim profits even more, she said. "The overall economics are not nearly as attractive as they once were." 
While Wal-Mart remains the behemoth of retail, with more than $244 billion in sales last year, it has not escaped the economic slowdown in recent months. Sales for the quarter are expected to come in lower than anticipated by Wall Street, showing an increase of less than 5 percent. "Wal-Mart's definitely suffering, but everybody's suffering," Ms. Kozloff said. "Consumers are still tentative right now." 
Still, giving up McLane is going to benefit Wal-Mart's profits, she added. "It was the lowest-margin business they had," she said, "so taking it out is going to make the overall company returns improve." 
McLane will continue to distribute some items to Wal-Mart stores, which accounted for $7.2 billion in sales last year, under a contract that Mr. Allen described as "a midterm agreement." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (90%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GROCERIES WHOLESALERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); WRITERS (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (55%) FOOD; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (96%); WAL-MART STORES INC (94%); MCLANE CO INC (91%); KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (91%); FLEMING COS INC (71%); SAM'S CLUB (67%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); 7-ELEVEN INC (54%); LEGG MASON INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC; BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC; MCCLANE (CO); ROYAL AHOLD NV; FLEMING COMPANIES; US FOODSERVICE 

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (96%); BRK.A (NYSE) (96%); WMT (NYSE) (94%); AHOE (FRA) (91%); AH (BIT) (91%); AH (AMS) (91%); DG (NYSE) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); LM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (96%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (96%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (91%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (91%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (91%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (56%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC6331 FIRE; SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES; 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (79%) HAYS, CONSTANCE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (73%) NEBRASKA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



66 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. Tax Cuts Outdo Bush Plan in Favoring Wealthy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2 

 BODY:
The tax-cut plan offered this week by Republican leaders in the House would be even more favorable to the wealthiest taxpayers than the larger plan proposed by President Bush, and those with incomes of less than $50,000 would have smaller tax reductions than under the Bush plan, a computer analysis showed today.
 The analysis by the Tax Policy Center at the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution found, for example, that taxpayers with incomes of more than $1 million would get an average tax cut this year of $105,636 under the plan outlined on Thursday by Representative Bill Thomas of California, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Under the Bush proposal, the average cut for these people would be $89,509. 
 By the same token, taxpayers with incomes between $50,000 and $75,000 would get an average tax cut this year of $734 under the the Bush plan and $712 under the Thomas plan; those with incomes between $40,000 and $50,000 would get an average cut of $482 under the Bush plan and $456 under the Thomas version. Similar disparities exist with the smaller tax cuts at lower income levels. Eighty-four percent of all taxpayers have incomes of less than $75,000. 
The main difference between the two plans is that the president would eliminate the tax on most stock dividends but would not change capital gains taxes. The House plan would lower the tax on capital gains -- now 18 percent or 20 percent in most cases -- to 15 percent and tax income from dividends, now taxed at rates up to 38.5 percent, also at 15 percent.
Rich people, because they have more to invest, are the main beneficiaries of capital gains and dividends. But they have a larger proportion of total capital gains, which are profits from the sale of investments, than they do of dividends. So they benefit even more when the capital gains rate is reduced than they do from eliminating the tax on dividends.
Taxpayers with incomes of more than $1 million would save an average of $42,800 this year from the Thomas approach of lowering the rate on capital gains and dividends. They would save an average of $26,800 from eliminating the tax on most dividends.
The rest of the tax savings this year would come mainly from provisions that would lower tax rates across the board. Other savings would come from an increase in the credit for children and a bonus for married couples. These provisions are the same in the Bush and Thomas plans as they apply to this year's taxes.
Mr. Thomas did not comment on the study. "We haven't had time to even think about this," said his spokeswoman, Christin Tinsworth.
Mr. Thomas and other Republicans are generally contemptuous of these kinds of studies, which are called distributional analyses. Republicans are not concerned when the most affluent people in the country get the bulk of tax cuts, because they pay the bulk of the taxes. The best way to improve the economy, in the Republican view, is to give money to the people who are most likely to invest it.
Another study released today showed that if special provisions called sunsets that Mr. Thomas put in his bill to keep the cost down are factored out, the total cost in lost revenue over 10 years would reach more than $1 trillion, far greater than the $550 billion allowed under the budget Congress approved last month and the $726 billion the president proposed. This study was done by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal policy institute.
This study and the computer analysis of benefits at different income levels were conducted by Democratic analysts who are opposed to Republican tax-cut policies. But the findings were based on impartial data from the Internal Revenue Service, the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation.
The sunsets are provisions that put popular tax cuts in place this year but make them expire at the end of 2005 to save money under the 10-year calculations. Mr. Thomas did this with the child credit, the marriage bonus and an expansion of the 10 percent tax bracket, all of which are popular because they benefit masses of middle-income taxpayers. Another tax break that would expire after 2005 would allow increased write-offs for small businesses. 
Mr. Thomas left no doubt on Thursday when he outlined his plan to reporters that he expected Congress to make these provisions permanent before they expired. Altogether, he saved about $100 billion in projected lost revenue by sunsetting, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities calculated.
Another provision that would expire in 2005 would extend more generous depreciation write-offs for large companies for their expenses on plants and equipment. 
This was originally written to encourage investment during hard times for businesses, and it is not so clear whether Congress would be eager to extend it past 2005 if the economy improved. But if it was extended for the full 10 years covered by the legislation, it would cost another $400 billion in lost revenue, bringing the total cost of the package to more than $1 trillion, the center calculated.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "COMPARISON: Two Tax Plans for the Wealthy"The tax-cut plan, outlined on Thursday by Representative Bill Thomas of California, would be more favorable to the wealthiest taxpayers than the larger plan proposed by President Bush. The Bush Plan ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: Less than $10,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: $1 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $10,000 to $20,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 57 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $20,000 to $30,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 199 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $30,000 to $40,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 336 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $40,000 to $50,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 482 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $50,000 to $75,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 734 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $75,000 to $100,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 1,676 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $100,000 to $200,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 2,646 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $200,000 to $500,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 5,451 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $500,000 to $1 millionAVERAGE TAX CUT: 18,047 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: More than $1 millionAVERAGE TAX CUT: 89,509 All Incomes: 742 The Thomas Plan ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: Less than $10,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: $1 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $10,000 to $20,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 53 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $20,000 to $30,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 190 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $30,000 to $40,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 325 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $40,000 to $50,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 456 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $50,000 to $75,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 712 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $75,000 to $100,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 1,633 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $100,000 to $200,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 2,583 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $200,000 to $500,000AVERAGE TAX CUT: 5,425 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: $500,000 to $1 millionAVERAGE TAX CUT: 18,471 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME In 2002 dollars: More than $1 millionAVERAGE TAX CUT: 105,636 All Incomes: 749 (Source: Tax Policy Center at the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); DIVIDENDS (70%); MARRIAGE (60%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (91%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (91%) TAX POLICY CENTER; BROOKINGS INSTITUTION; URBAN INSTITUTE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); THOMAS, BILL (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



67 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: THE MILITARY; 
Former Iraq Weapons Adviser Is Arrested

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 2 

 BODY:
Three more Iraqi officials on the American most-wanted list have been placed in custody, military officials announced today, including another of Saddam Hussein's chief weapons advisers.
 The adviser, Abdel Tawab Mullah Huweish, was director of the Military Industrialization Organization, which oversaw the development of Iraq's weapons systems. As with three other top weapons aides already in custody, Mr. Huweish's arrest is of particular interest to American officials because of the information he may be able to provide on nuclear and unconventional weapons. 
 The issue is a priority for the Bush administration, which waged the war over its charge that Mr. Hussein still held biological or chemical weapons. The American military has not found any such weapons in the three weeks since the Iraqi government fell.
Meanwhile, in another sign that life is slowly returning to normal, United States military officials here in Baghdad urged students and teachers to return to school on Saturday, the start of the Muslim workweek. An Army officer, Maj. Linda Scharf, said the Iraqis were advising caution because the Iraqi military had stored ammunition inside schools, as unlikely targets for American bombing. So far, Major Scharf said, only 100 schools in this city of five million people have been inspected for safety.
"We want to assure that the environment is safe for teachers and for children," she said. "So I say if it's not safe, don't hold school."
Normally, the school year ends several weeks from now, at the end of May. Two weeks ago, some American military officials said they were concerned that the amount of munitions in the schools might delay their reopening until the next term, which begins in September.
The work and presence of the United Nations is growing in Iraq, though its overall role has yet be decided, amid opposition from the Bush administration that it plays too prominent a role. Today, a ship carrying 14,000 tons of rice from the United Nations World Food Program, the largest shipment of relief food so far, arrived in the southern port of Umm Qasr. Before the war, about 60 percent of Iraqis depended on food rations.
The ship's arrival came a day after 21 officials from various United Nations agencies returned to Iraq. Aside from the World Food Program, the agencies included the World Health Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund and the United Nations Development Program.
Even with President Bush's declaration on Thursday that the main hostilities in Iraq are over, violence and military operations continued.
In Tikrit, the birthplace of Mr. Hussein and the nation's stronghold for his Baath Party, the American military conducted a raid in which it arrested 20 people. One Iraqi was killed after he reportedly tried to grab a rifle away from an American soldier, the military said. 
The military reported that it found various weapons and $3,000 in cash in several of the raided houses.
In Najaf, the southern city holy to Shiite Muslims, there were reports overnight of a shooting incident, though the details were not clear.
The Associated Press reported that two men had been arrested after a shooting outside the tomb of Imam Ali, the city's central shrine.
The men were identified as suspects in the slaying last month of Sheik Abdel Majid al-Khoei, who was hacked to death by a mob after returning to the city after Mr. Hussein fell from power. Another rival cleric, Haider al-Kadar, was also killed there at a meeting the two men staged to reconcile the differences among various Shiite groups.
There were, however, no new demonstrations in the city of Falluja, where local residents have said that American soldiers killed 18 Iraqis this week in two anti-American protests. The military reported in both cases that soldiers were fired on by demonstrators, though residents said the marches were peaceful.
The United States military provided few details of the arrests of the three top officials who served Mr. Hussein, which brings to 18 the number of people on the American list of 55 most wanted now in custody. Mr. Huweish, who the military said was captured on Thursday in Baghdad, was No. 16 on the list.
Also arrested was Taha Mohieddin Maruf, a vice president and member of the Revolutionary Command Council, Iraq's central governing body. He was among the most prominent Kurds in an Iraqi government dominated by Sunni Muslims. He was No. 42 on the list.
Mizban Khadr Hadi, the other man arrested, was also a member of the Revolutionary Command Council and the military commander during the war for the area that included the Shiite holy cities of Najaf and Karbala. He was No. 41 on the list.
The military did not say whether Mr. Maruf and Mr. Hadi had been captured or had turned themselves in. No. 1 on the list is Mr. Hussein himself, followed by his two sons, Uday and Qusay. All three remain unaccounted for, and are either at large or killed by American airstrikes during the war.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Life appeared to be slowly returning to normal in Baghdad yesterday. At Abu Hanifa Mosque, Sunni Muslims attended Friday Prayers. The U.S. military urged schools to reopen today, the start of the Muslim work week. (Awad Awad/Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (85%); INSPECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) FISHER, IAN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); HUWEISH, ABDEL TAWAB MULLAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



68 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk; 
Wielding the Power of Defection

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2 

 BODY:
Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont spent this morning driving from the capital to the Maryland Eastern Shore for a Democratic retreat. Each Tuesday, he attends the Senate Democrats' policy luncheon. On Saturday, he will deliver the Democratic response to President Bush's radio address.
 It's enough to make people think he's a Democrat. 
 Mr. Jeffords is, as official Washington is well aware, an independent, the only one in the Senate. He quit the Republican Party two years ago this month, delivering control of the Senate to the Democrats. When Republicans reclaimed a majority in November, word was that he would have as much power in the Capitol as a windmill on a windless day.
But Mr. Jeffords still exerts power in his own way. His switch still casts a long shadow in the Senate, which is why Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, selected Mr. Jeffords to give Saturday's radio message.
The address will focus on the White House tax cut proposal, just as the Senate Finance Committee, on which Mr. Jeffords serves, is poised to begin writing a tax bill. With Republican senators like Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine balking at the president's plan, some say Mr. Jeffords stands as a reminder to the conservative Republican leadership about what might happen if they beat up too much on party moderates.
"As a defector, he has great propaganda value," said Ross K. Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers University. "The Jeffords message comes through loud and clear that if you discredit, if you harass, if you marginalize moderates in your party, there is always the danger they will walk over to the other side of the aisle."
Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee who helped to broker a deal to cut Mr. Bush's proposed $726 billion, 10-year tax cut in half, has been saying as much all week. In an interview on CNN, he warned, "If Republicans push too hard, you have what happened to us two years ago, with Senator Jeffords leaving the party."
This morning, in a telephone interview from the car, Mr. Jeffords said he felt he had a "unique perspective to offer on the tax cut issue." 
He voted for the last large tax cut, in 2001, when he was still a Republican. "I recognize now that was a mistake," he said.
In his radio address, Mr. Jeffords said, he would like to make the point that "the administration, with its tremendous desire to cut taxes, is making a disruptive economic situation, which is very dangerous."
If that sounds like pure Democratic rhetoric, it is. Since his defection, Mr. Jeffords has found that he fits in quite nicely with what used to be the opposition party. He campaigns for Democrats and helps raise money for them. He is the ranking member on the Environment and Public Works Committee; it is a position he holds because Democratic leaders agreed to give it to him.
"Even though he continues to be an independent in a formal sense, he has clearly become an integral member of the Democratic team in the Senate," Norman J. Ornstein, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute here, said. "He is clearly somebody who Democrats value."
Which raises a question: Why label himself an independent?
"Because that's what I am," he said. "Philosophically, I'm more in tune with the Democrats right now, but I represent Vermont, and Vermont is a very independent state."
Of course, being an independent does not cost Mr. Jeffords anything; the only risk, and it is a small one, is that Democrats in Vermont could put up a candidate to run against him. Mr. Baker, the political science professor, says he sees another reason: he suspects that Mr. Jeffords simply likes being a caucus of one.
"In an institution in which members pride themselves for distinctions -- John McCain the war hero, Hillary Clinton the former first lady -- being the sole independent and the person who for a time changed the political complexion of the Senate is really quite a distinction," Mr. Baker said.
So let there be no surprise about the sign off Mr. Jeffords will offer on the radio Saturday, on behalf of the Democratic Party: "This is Jim Jeffords, independent senator of Vermont. Thanks for listening." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TAX LAW (87%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%) CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM DASCHLE (74%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (59%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (59%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (59%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; JEFFORDS, JAMES M (SEN); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



69 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Investors Ponder Buffett's Move Into China Oil

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 2 

 BODY:
Why is Warren E. Buffett betting on China's largest oil company? 
 Perplexed investors have been asking that question since Berkshire Hathaway, Mr. Buffett's Omaha-based investment company, increased its stake last week in PetroChina, the sprawling oil company controlled by the Chinese government. Berkshire Hathaway currently holds more than 9 percent of PetroChina's publicly traded shares, or about 1 percent of the company as a whole. 
 The investment, disclosed in a filing with the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, was a notable departure from Mr. Buffett's previous approach to investing outside the United States, and it has aroused considerable interest in China's fast-evolving oil industry. 
Before the PetroChina purchase, Mr. Buffett, who is known as the Sage of Omaha because of his knack for spotting undervalued companies with sound management, mainly preferred to tap the economic potential of developing countries by investing in American companies, like Coca-Cola and Gillette, with extensive operations abroad. 
"Like most large Chinese companies, PetroChina doesn't have a good reputation for being transparent," said Marc Faber, a Hong Kong-based investment adviser. Still, Mr. Faber said he made a case to Mr. Buffett last year that many Asian stocks were undervalued, and that Mr. Buffett showed interest when the two men spoke at an investment conference held at Lord Rothschild's estate in Buckinghamshire, England. 
"If I were to play oil around the world, I'd go to Russia, where the reserves are stronger than China's," Mr. Faber said. "But it's not like he's playing a basket of 50 different Indonesian stocks. Maybe he realizes the 90's were unusual for the multinationals, in that there will be more local competition going forward, particularly in Chinese oil." 
Some shareholders at Berkshire Hathaway's annual meeting in Omaha on Saturday plan to ask Mr. Buffett what he sees in PetroChina, a company still under the tight control of China's Communist government. 
While the PetroChina issue is expected to come up, shareholders attending Saturday's meeting may also be raising more pressing questions, including criticism of the makeup of Berkshire Hathaway's board, which counts Mr. Buffett's wife and son among its members.
A unit of the China National Petroleum Corporation, PetroChina pumps about two-thirds of the oil and natural gas produced in China, where rising demand for energy and growing imports have made the country the third-largest oil consumer after the United States and Japan. 
PetroChina came into being three years ago, when it was spun out of its parent company in an initial public offering. BP bought about one-fifth of the company's publicly traded shares in the offering, representing about 2 percent of the company as a whole. 
Since then, China has changed its oil industry in far-reaching ways. PetroChina now manages most domestic operations, including exploration in the large Daqing field in the northeast; it also has interests in more than 12,000 gas stations. China National Petroleum, the parent company, is aggressively moving forward with oil and gas ventures in Sudan, Peru, Azerbaijan and other countries. PetroChina has also sought to flex its muscles abroad, with ventures in Indonesia and elsewhere and a proposal to build a pipeline linking Russia and China. 
Still, even as PetroChina plays a central role in the Chinese government's efforts to reduce the country's dependence on supplies from the Middle East, the company did not emerge as an investor favorite until recently. Instead, CNOOC, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, another predominantly state-owned company whose shares trade in New York and Hong Kong, became a darling among international fund managers. 
CNOOC (pronounced SEE-nook) was created in the 1980's specifically to work with foreign energy companies to explore and produce oil offshore. As a result, CNOOC's executives and engineers are thought to have created a more worldly and investor-friendly corporate culture than exists at PetroChina.
The run-up in oil prices before the war in Iraq was regarded as beneficial to CNOOC, a leaner operation focused on exploration and production. But with the winding down of hostilities, some investors, including Berkshire Hathaway executives, apparently shifted their focus to PetroChina, which was considered in a better position to weather oil price volatility with its mixture of exploration, production, refining and retail operations. 
Still, plenty of uncertainty accompanies investment in China's oil industry. There are concerns about whether PetroChina, CNOOC and Sinopec, another large state-controlled oil company, are managed with enough professionalism and independence, or whether they are mainly tools to serve the whims of Chinese political leaders and their drive to diversify the country's oil sources. Investors and analysts worry about the industry's transparency. 
"The relationship between the central government and these companies is not that clear," said Steven Lewis, an expert on the Chinese oil industry at Rice University. "They've adopted a go-abroad strategy, but that in itself creates issues, like the incentive to keep funds from foreign operations offshore, away from the tax authorities. There's a lot about the industry that remains a mystery." 
It would seem out of character for Mr. Buffett, an outspoken advocate of transparent management practices, to place a bet on a company in what is apparently so opaque a sector. But the central government's firm grip on China's oil industry may actually be at the heart of PetroChina's appeal. 
"Buffett's not betting on PetroChina becoming the next Shell or BP, though that may be their ultimate ambition," said Philip Andrews-Speed, an expert on China's oil industry at the University of Dundee in Scotland. "He's betting against energy-sector liberalization in China." 
The expectation that Beijing will shield PetroChina and its Chinese peers from foreign competition adds to hopes that China, as it industrializes, will remain one of the fastest- growing energy markets for years to come. Mr. Lewis of Rice University said that conservative estimates for future fuel consumption in China often ignore a trend toward road transportation and away from the railway system, as local governments invest much more in highways and bridges than in rails. 
Deborah Bosanek, Mr. Buffett's assistant, declined to comment on Berkshire Hathaway's PetroChina stake, but she said in a telephone interview from Omaha that she expected Mr. Buffett to field questions from investors and reporters on the matter Saturday and Sunday. 
Veteran Buffett watchers, meanwhile, cautioned against reading too much into the PetroChina play. Robert P. Miles, the author of a book on Mr. Buffett and his management practices, noted that the PetroChina investment, valued at roughly $50 million, was equivalent to just two and one-half days' worth of cash flow from the Berkshire Hathaway empire. 
"He doesn't do anything for sentimental reasons, but this investment is just a blip," Mr. Miles said in a telephone interview from Omaha. "It's still too insignificant to indicate any sort of pattern, when compared with the other large investments and acquisitions he usually pursues."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Warren E. Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway has invested in PetroChina. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Work progresses on a natural gas pipeline from Xinjiang Province in northwest China to the coastal city of Shanghai. The project has helped attract foreign investors to the government-controlled PetroChina. (Li Fengshan/Imagine China)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (63%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (92%); PETROCHINA CO LTD (92%); CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (62%); COCA-COLA CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC; PETROCHINA 

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (92%); BRK.A (NYSE) (92%); PTR (NYSE) (92%); K3OD (SGX) (92%); 0857 (HKSE) (92%); KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (62%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (62%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%) SIC6331 FIRE; 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%); JACOB ROTHSCHILD (57%) ROMERO, SIMON; BUFFETT, WARREN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (79%); INDONESIA (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003 



70 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Nobody's Perfect 

BYLINE:  By Anthony Quinn; Anthony Quinn is the film critic for The Independent in London.

 BODY:
 THE LIGHT OF DAY
By Graham Swift.
324 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $24.
 WIMBLEDON is used to its dramas, its shocks and sensations, but they traditionally happen on or around Center Court. In Graham Swift's intricate new novel, "The Light of Day," the drama that rocks this leafy London suburb happens out of season, in November, and it's a grimmer kind of headline maker. A gynecologist is slain at home by his wife, who was preparing to serve him coq au vin that evening. Instead, she thrusts a kitchen knife through his heart. This is a murder mystery, then, but only in the sense that murder is always a mystery.
The novel, although set within a single day, ebbs and flows across time and reassembles the past like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. The narrator, George Webb, buys flowers, lays them on the grave of the murdered man and then goes to the prison to visit the woman responsible for that death, a woman he has fallen in love with. George, a disgraced policeman turned private investigator, spends the day -- the second anniversary of the murder -- reflecting on the events that have led to this pass. As a specialist in "matrimonial work," he was hired by Sarah Nash to trail her husband, Bob, and Kristina, a young Croatian refugee whom they had taken into their home on a charitable impulse. Sarah knew that Bob and Kristina were having an affair, and that Kristina, with the war finally over, was about to return to her homeland. What she wanted George to do was make sure that Kristina got on the plane, and that Bob came home.
The action of the story turns out to be less significant than the manner of its telling. Swift is a virtuoso of narrative ventriloquism; he inhabits his characters through their voices. In common with his previous novel, the 1996 Booker Prize-winning "Last Orders," in which the unliterary demotic of four old geezers from the "Sarf" London borough of Bermondsey predominated, "The Light of Day" is couched in rigorously plain prose, filled with short, spare sentences and multiple question marks: it's the language of the police notebook. At times, George seems to be reciting a kind of doggerel: "The taste of freedom. Lemon light. Cold air in the mouth. The freedom of a graveyard, where they never let you out at all." This is gumshoe haiku. It's not just sentences that are abbreviated; paragraphs, subsections and chapters are planed down to a switchlike leanness.
Yet there is a pressure of meaning behind the apparent reticence. Certain words and phrases ("watch over," "lost soul," "sad case," "vacant possession," "crossing a line") begin to recur, deftly creating links and echoes of association. At one point, George thinks of how Sarah must be feeling on the anniversary of the murder: "I wasn't with her then, not till it was over. And I can't be with her tonight -- at 8:40. Holding her hand." There is a lovely shiver of ambiguity in that last phrase, suggesting both an act of reassurance and an act of restraint.
Ideas create little rhymes with one another. Through Sarah,a language teacher and translator, George has come to learn the value of words, to "hold them up to the light" as he sends her reports from the outside world -- homework," as he dryly calls it. George's father was a portrait photographer who knew how to make his sitters smile; his son deals with photographs too, but of an incriminating kind that wipes smiles away.
Swift uses the novel to explore the bonds between writing and detective work, professions that depend on stealth, alertness, an eye for detail. George was a good snoop as a boy, caddying for his father and his pals on the local golf course, "ears pricked, even then." He learned of his father's adultery while casually eavesdropping on their chat and had to live with it, pretending he didn't know. But the worm was in the bud. He is a kind of inversion of Graham Greene's narrator in "The End of the Affair" -- also set in South London, also with a romantically damned heroine named Sarah -- a writer who becomes an obsessive hunter of clues, retrospectively digging through his past to reach the present. There are other consonances between the two books. George hates the dead man in his grave just as Greene's writer hates God and the woman who he believes betrayed him. An impotent jealousy grips both men: George confesses to being "jealous of all those years, good long years," that Sarah and Bob had together; in Greene, "there are times when a lover longs to be a father and a brother: he is jealous of the years he hasn't shared."
What separates the two Grahams is the numinous perspective. "The Light of Day" has no equivalent to Greene's tormented Roman Catholicism: Swift's secular vision of humanity leaves his characters clinging to nothing but one another, a recourse that often proves unreliable. George's wife, Rachel, left him after his professional fall from grace, and his daughter, Helen, is only recently back in his life after years of estrangement. Unhappy families have been a constant in Swift's work since the publication of his first novel, "The Sweet-Shop Owner," and time and again he has returned to scenarios in which one character is somehow out of reach of another. In his best book, "Waterland," the narrator goes to see his wife, who has been silenced by a breakdown. In "Last Orders," a mother visits her mentally ill daughter each week for years on end, without ever being recognized.
"The Light of Day" is positively jagged with broken connections, not only in the prison walls that separate George and Sarah but in Kristina's flight from her home, Dubrovnik, and the traumatic loss of her family to Serbian butchery. Hovering in the background is the memory of the Empress Eugenie, exiled in the late 19th century with her husband, Napoleon III, to the incongruous locale of Chislehurst, where both Sarah and George, unbeknown to each other, grew up. ("Sometimes, maybe, fate steps in.")
Swift manages this patterning of motifs with exquisite economy, and the suggestion of lives held in check makes the book feel as English as marmalade. But the downside to this suppressed emotion is a want of dramatic urgency. While individual scenes -- like the interrogation of a witness that led George, ruinously, to try to rig the conviction of a violent criminal -- are expertly rendered, the story feels somewhat hobbled by its narrator's cautious spirit. Fitted with the accouterments of the noir genre -- an adultery, a desperate woman, a furtive surveillance, a lonely private "I" -- the book always seems about to step up a gear and cross into thriller territory. It never does, and the pivotal scene that the plot has been building to -- showing us Bob's return home on the night of his death -- falls mysteriously flat. One reads beyond it for a few pages before pausing to wonder: what happened back there?
It is difficult to reconcile the fact of so much writerly achievement with the feeling that the novel is somewhat underpowered. At one point, George offers the homely saw "Make a little do for a lot," which could almost be taken to express Swift's own modus operandi. He has become a master of word-paring, phrase-clipping and scene-whittling, and the austerity of his style feels like a perfect fit with the voice of his laconic detective. Yet in cleaving to this scrupulous technique, he has skimped on the more obvious satisfactions of excitement and suspense. The pages turn, but the pulse never quickens.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Derek Van Gieson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); MURDER (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MARRIAGE (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); CEMETERIES (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); REFUGEES (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



71 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: War No More 

BYLINE:  By Jonathan D. Tepperman; Jonathan D. Tepperman is the senior editor at Foreign Affairs magazine.

 BODY:
 THE UNCONQUERABLE WORLD
Power, Nonviolence, and the Will of the People.
By Jonathan Schell.
433 pp. New York:
Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $27.50.
 IF any single grand theory emerges from the tangle of literature on international affairs, it's probably this: Beware of single grand theories. An important corollary is to be especially wary of single grand theories based on historical uniqueness -- the premise that today we just happen to teeter at the fulcrum of history.
But Jonathan Schell, a columnist at The Nation and a longtime advocate of nuclear disarmament, is not a cautious soul. In "The Unconquerable World," he argues that what we are witnessing today is nothing less than the end of armed conflict as we know it. The "war system" that long pitted nations against one another is dying, undone by politics and the development of ever more potent weapons. A new, nonviolent approach to politics is about to take its place.
Unfortunately, "The Unconquerable World" doesn't really work as foreign policy big-think. Schell has not produced the kind of simple, elegant coherence that made other recent grand ideas, like Francis Fukuyama's "end of history" and Samuel Huntington's "clash of civilizations," such hits. His theory is too complex and nuanced to make for dramatic reading, yet not plausible enough to satisfy the serious student. The vision he paints of his imagined future is a glorious one. But he gives us frustratingly few ideas as to how, exactly, we're supposed to get there. 
The problem with war, Schell writes, is that in the course of the last century it ceased to function the way that Clausewitz described it: as a "final arbiter" of conflict between states. This failure resulted from two simultaneous trends, one coming up from the bottom, the other down from the top. First, "people's war," which started with Napoleon's mass mobilizations of citizen-soldiers, was perfected in the 20th century by Mao Zedong and Ho Chi Minh, who used popular guerrillas to overwhelm larger and better-equipped conventional armies. The introduction and proliferation of nuclear weapons, meanwhile, made great-power conflict all but unthinkable. Actual war fighting became less important than the appearance of advantage -- at least during the cold war, when Soviet and American strategists feinted and shadow-boxed but rarely landed a punch.
Schell argues that the combination of asymmetrical people's war and nuclear stalemate has made traditional combat obsolete. To buttress his case, he considers four famous revolutions, in each of which, he argues, bloodshed actually played far less of a role than is usually recognized.
The reader may be surprised by Schell's examples -- England's Glorious Revolution, as well as the American, French and Russian revolutions -- since at least two of these, the French and Russian revolutions, are remembered as particularly gory. But Schell's point is that though each of these rebellions may have become bloody, most of the killing came late in the game. The real revolutions occurred earlier: in the hearts and minds of the people, not on the field of Mars. Political battles for popular loyalty should thus be considered far more important than military struggles. 
Turning away from conflict, Schell charts what he calls a "parallel history": the rise of purely nonviolent action. In Gandhi's self-reliant and fiercely ascetic satyagraha and the later huge, bloodless revolutions that undermined the Soviet empire, Schell finds great hope for how political change might occur in the future; in them, he sees "violence disrupted or in retreat." 
Of course, now is a particularly awkward time to be writing about the triumph of nonviolence. As Schell himself notes, despite all the hopeful signs -- the rise of popular self-determination, the end of ideological division in the West and the growth of liberal democracy -- the world today faces even more threatening trends, like globalized economic exploitation and nuclear weapons proliferation.
And there is another danger that strikes Schell as more menacing still: America's current "Augustan" inclinations. Cursed with too much power and under attack, the Republic has betrayed its roots by giving in to the temptations of empire. Force and bluster have replaced diplomacy, and the once peaceful nation now "approaches the world with a drawn imperial sword." The results, Schell predicts, will be disastrous. And they will be Washington's fault.
Well, perhaps. But if retaliating against the attacks on New York and Washington was a mistake, just what Schell thinks the United States should have done is never made clear. Instead, in the book's final, most vexing sections, he proposes a number of bland steps toward world community that the nations of the planet should take together. The list includes gradual nuclear disarmament, the formation of a vaguely defined "democratic league" and the universal prosecution of crimes against humanity. 
Sounds good; in fact, the list looks remarkably similar to the international agenda of virtually every liberal democracy except this one. Therein lies a problem that Schell refuses to deal with: how to get the United States to agree to such measures, which many Americans view as threatening their jealously held sovereignty. Schell has little to recommend here, other than to call for a sort of global nonviolent revolution, based on a quasi-mystical notion of "cooperative power." 
It's not hard to see the difficulties with this approach. Schell's attacks on current American policy, which build quietly throughout the book before floridly erupting at the end, are so strident that they will alienate all but a very self-selected readership. Consider a passage like the following: "Could it be the destiny of the American republic, unable to resist the allure of an imperial delusion, to flare out in a blaze of pointless mass destruction?" Well, perhaps. But not likely, no matter how distasteful one finds the language of the Bush administration. And so it's hard to take the author of such words seriously. 
A larger problem is Schell's obstinate rejection of the fact that even in 2003 warfare can and does still play a vital role in world affairs -- and not only vital, but sometimes positive. Politicians from Bosnia and Kosovo to Afghanistan and East Timor credit their own freedoms -- indeed, their very lives -- to the kind of armed intervention that Schell excoriates. And now many Iraqis are doing the same. 
"The days when humanity can hope to save itself from force with force are over," Schell insists. A nice thought, but not everyone in Rwanda or Congo would agree. In fact, their complaint is that, on the contrary, no one was willing to exert force on their behalf. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ARMIES (75%); COLD WAR (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



72 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 7464 words

HEADLINE: The Thinkable 

BYLINE:  By Bill Keller; Bill Keller is a Times columnist and a senior writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
In each of the major cities of Pakistan, you can find a strange monument depicting a saw-toothed mountain and a poised missile. 
The mountain is a peak in the Chagai Hills, in whose granite depths Pakistan conducted its first nuclear tests five years ago. In the Islamabad version of this tableau, which sits on a traffic island amid a congestion of garishly ornamented trucks, three-wheeled taxis and donkey carts, the mountain is bathed at night in a creepy orange light, as if radioactive. The camouflage-dappled missile is called the Ghauri, and it has a range of about 900 miles. If the chronic tensions along the border between Pakistan and India should ever escalate to a nuclear war, the Ghauri would try to deliver at least one of Pakistan's warheads onto New Delhi. Lest anyone miss the point, the missile was named for a 12th-century Afghan warrior whose most memorable accomplishment was conquering part of India. 
 A couple of things about these odd shrines are worth considering. The first is the way Pakistan flaunts its nuclear potency in such a proud, even provocative public display. Traditionally most countries that possess nuclear weapons have maintained a discretion about them, befitting their stigma and mystique. Israel has never even publicly acknowledged the existence of its program, nor did the white rulers of South Africa before they quietly decided to dismantle their arsenal in 1989. Pakistan, too, used to be coy about whether it possessed nuclear weapons, but in the past few years the Pakistanis have decided that their weapons are more useful when brandished. Useful, first, in warding off the superior conventional army of India, but useful too as a nationalist proclamation and a beacon to Islamic pride. 
 A second salient fact about these roadside sculptures is that the Ghauri is, beneath its Pakistani cosmetics, a copy of a North Korean missile called the Nodong. A strong suspicion of American and Indian intelligence services is that Pakistan paid for this missile -- which can deliver a nuclear warhead -- in part by giving North Korea vital tidbits of information about the production and testing of nuclear explosives. Pakistani officials deny this categorically, but not very convincingly in the view of more impartial experts. (The father of the Pakistani bomb, A.Q. Khan, is known to have paid at least 13 visits to North Korea.) If the suspicion is justified, then Pakistan -- which lives at the busiest crossroads of Islamic terror -- is the first nation to have bartered away nuclear weapons technology on the black market.
What Pakistan has unwittingly memorialized is a new nuclear era. A dozen years after the Soviet Union crumbled, nuclear weapons have not receded to the margins of our interest, as many expected. On the contrary, in this second nuclear age, such weapons govern our foreign policy more than they have in decades.
We have been slow to wake up to this new order, but now we are in it with a bang. We just fought a war that began as a drive to disarm one tyrant with nuclear ambitions and to demonstrate America's resolve to others. There are so many ways to think about the war we have just concluded in Iraq that it is easy to overlook this one: it is the most audacious attempt to change the rules of arms control in half a century.
Nuclear proliferation is at the heart of our confrontations with North Korea and Iran, two states for whom the message of Iraq was intended. Proliferation is a persistent irritant in our relations with Russia and China, has contributed to America's official disappointment with the United Nations and is intimately intertwined with the consuming issue of our time, terrorism.
The first nuclear age, which began over Hiroshima, eventually matured into a great standoff between the United States and the Soviet Union. Despite a number of nuclear near misses during that confrontation's first 20 years -- the Berlin showdown, the Cuban missile crisis -- the two rivals slowly brought their fearsome weapons under control and negotiated a protocol for living with them. During the same period, other potential nuclear states were restrained -- by treaties, by the threat of sanctions and other diplomatic pressures, by the superpowers' semi-monopoly on technology and by the fact that weak nations could huddle under the nuclear protection of one bloc or the other. The alliances, Soviet and American, had a strong interest in limiting the number of states with nuclear weapons, and they generally kept things in check. In its way, the cold war worked.
In hindsight, you could say that the closing act of the first nuclear age took place in January 1994, when Ukraine agreed to give up the nuclear weapons it had inherited in the breakup of the Soviet Union. It was the last of the former Soviet states to relinquish its unconventional weapons, and probably the only one with the technological wherewithal to override Moscow's centralized control systems and become an overnight nuclear state. But at that time, possession of nuclear weapons was still understood as a serious impediment for a country seeking admission into the Western world. If you wanted to join the party, you checked your nukes at the door. The first Bush administration and then the Clinton administration bargained hard for the surrender of Ukraine's weapons, promising abundant financial aid and a military partnership that Ukrainians hoped would lead to American security guarantees.
However, an attentive listener back then might have sensed that the old verities were beginning to lose their power. Ukrainian nationalists (including many Ukrainian-Americans) raised a serious clamor for retaining the weapons. Why should Russia, which has a history of throwing its weight around, be a nuclear power and not Ukraine? Who will take us seriously without the Bomb? Some of the diplomats who negotiated the end of Ukraine's nuclear interlude are not so sure that today their appeal would successfully withstand the riptide of nationalism.
The second nuclear age was heralded by a rumble under the Rajasthani desert in 1998, as India's newly elected Hindu nationalist government detonated five test blasts. Two weeks later Pakistan followed suit. India's tests were a declaration of national pride, a sign of anxiety about its rival China and a caution to Pakistan. Pakistan's tests were more simply reciprocal. Announcing them, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif declared proudly, "Today, we have settled the score." 
Both countries were known to be developing nuclear weapons, but they came out of the closet brazenly. These were nuclear weapons with a regional agenda, unveiled with a populist flourish. And they had a religious subtext -- the Hindu bomb, the Islamic bomb -- that has become more acute as fundamentalists of the two religions gain ground in their respective countries.
India and Pakistan were, by many estimations, the forerunners of a new kind of nuclear power, ahead of the field but hardly alone. Iraq may be solved, but North Korea is regarded as already nuclear. Iran is believed to be moving rapidly toward acquiring nukes. Libya and Syria are watched with suspicion. Experts talk speculatively of the ripple effects -- of a nuclear Iran inspiring nuclear lust in Egypt, Turkey, even Saudi Arabia, of a nuclear North Korea prompting a breakout in Japan, South Korea, even Taiwan.
Long experience without catastrophic mishap has made us, perhaps, a little complacent about nuclear weapons. The Indian and Pakistani tests caused a media frisson and some halfhearted sanctions, but the sense of urgency quickly passed. They were just tests, after all, and half a world away, and everyone knows using nuclear weapons at war is -- the word is on every diplomat's save-get key -- unthinkable.
But each new country that gets nuclear weapons multiplies the potential for a war involving a nuclear state. And numbers are not the worst of it. The original nuclear era was primarily a boxers' clinch of two great industrial powers, each claiming to represent an ideology of global appeal. The second is about insecure nations, most of them led by autocrats, most of them relatively poor, residing in rough neighborhoods, unaligned with and resentful of Western power.
The arsenals of the first nuclear age were governed by elaborate rules and sophisticated technology designed to prevent firing in haste. Some of the newcomers are thought to have far less rigorous command and control, raising fears that the lines of authority could be abandoned in the heat of battle. The newer nuclear states, after all, are dealing with enemies close at hand -- minutes away by missile -- in conflicts that could unfold quickly.
Moreover, there is the danger of third-world weapons or weapons-grade material falling into the hands of terrorists -- the one enemy we know would probably not hesitate to use them. Sympathy for Taliban-style fanaticism thrives in the lower ranks of Pakistan's military, for example. American and Pakistani officials, and experts in rival India, say that Gen. Pervez Musharraf has Pakistan firmly under his control, but nobody imagines that the situation is foolproof. Or that Musharraf will endure forever.
"Then it's not a question of one or two warheads being diverted," said a senior administration official. "It's a question of a couple dozen Islamic bombs."
Even if a rogue state does not share weapons with terrorists, a nuclear Iran or North Korea or an extremist-led Pakistan could provide sanctuary to terrorists, and the United States might hesitate to pursue killers into a nuclear-armed refuge. Add to this the fear that emotional temperatures can spike when patriotism is tied up with national or religious identity. These are the same passions that have, at their worst, fed outbreaks of genocide, sectarian atrocities and suicide bombing. At the Wagha border crossing, where I left India for Pakistan, soldiers of the two countries stage a ritual every day at dusk. They shoulder rifles, compose their faces in warlike resolve and march straight at one another, stopping only when they are close enough to smell one another's breath. It is purely symbolic, but the symbolism is not abstract. India and Pakistan have fought three wars -- and India has mobilized for war twice in the past 18 months, following terrorist attacks by Kashmiri militants based in Pakistan. 
In the first nuclear age, centered on Europe and the cold war, we were on familiar ground. The second, though, is happening across a swath of Asia and is steeped in historic grudges, suppressed national pride and regional ambitions that the West poorly understands, let alone controls. 
Henry Sokolski, who was Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's deputy for nonproliferation policy in the first Bush administration, recalls leaving office in 1993 brimming with optimism. Communism was dead. Rampant democracy and rising prosperity would dispel the appetite for these awful weapons. "We had worked to end nuclear programs in Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Ukraine," said Sokolski, who now runs a conservative antiproliferation center. "It seemed all these countries were drifting away from tyrannical, authoritarian rule, and I thought: There's the formula! It's working!"
The optimists were soon disillusioned, with regard to both the proliferation of democracy and the proliferation of weapons. With the demise of the two big alliances, countries that had existed in the shadows of the superpowers were left to settle their own scores and to see to their own security.
For India, which conducted a nuclear test in 1974 but left the program on idle, the end of the cold war meant a rising profile for China, a longtime antagonist -- and a nuclear power. China, in turn, was helping arm Pakistan. And in this newly disordered world, nuclear weapons were a way to announce that India intended to be a player. "Whatever Indians say officially, there is a status attached to the bomb," said Kanti Bajpai, a political scientist and nuclear critic, when I rode out to see him on the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru University. "The five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council are all nuclear powers."
For an authoritarian regime with designs on its neighbors -- Iraq, say -- nuclear weapons could prevent the United States from coming to the rescue of allies. "It is a real equalizer if you're a pissant little country with no hope of matching the U.S. militarily," remarked one Bush administration official. "What if Milosevic had had nuclear weapons during the Kosovo crisis?"
Ahmed Rashid, a Pakistani journalist and author of an international best seller on the Taliban, argues that some autocrats sought nuclear weapons not to protect their countries but to secure their own holds on power. 
"In the 90's, it became an issue of regime preservation and survival," Rashid said over tea at his home in Lahore. Outside, hired men carrying automatic rifles guarded the driveway, the price Rashid pays for speaking as freely as he does. "Many of the Muslim states were client states of one bloc or another. Suddenly the props that the ruling elites leaned on are gone."
These autocrats dared not risk their authority by opening up their societies. Some looked instead to nuclear weapons as a way of demonstrating their own importance to the fate of the nation.
"Yes, Pakistan had the India problem, but one of the big justifications to go nuclear was that somehow going nuclear would free us of any other obligation to our own people," Rashid asserted.
Another reason nuclear weapons spread was that they could. In the first nuclear age, the secrets and ingredients of bomb-making were closely held. But the end of the cold war choked off political support for controls on the export of sophisticated technology and made borders more porous. In the second nuclear age, globalization seems to have made nuclear weaponry just another unsavory but probably uncontainable technology, like Internet porn. Poor countries can even finance their nukes by exporting other military material, as North Korea has done. 
"Demand creates the market," George Tenet, the director of central intelligence, told Congress in February, and "knowledgeable nonstate purveyors" are increasingly available to supply it, leapfrogging the tedious pace of old-fashioned nuclear programs. "The 'domino theory' of the 21st century may well be nuclear," Tenet said.
Many critics, especially abroad, say the U.S. has played midwife to the new nuclear age by a lack of vigilance bordering on complicity. We may not be a peddler of nuclear weapons technology or a flouter of international protocols. But we are guilty of hypocrisy, bad example, permissiveness and carelessness. In the world's graduation from the first nuclear age to the second, we have been a great enabler. The United States has tended to look the other way when nuclear offenders happened to be useful allies. This is inarguably the case in Pakistan. We made little effort to shut down Pakistan's nuclear program during the 1980's, when the Pakistanis were valued partners in aiding Afghanistan's insurgency against the Soviet Union. We knew China was selling missiles to Pakistan, but we were also courting China to offset the Soviets.
Although we have leaned recently on President Musharraf to make sure Pakistani nuclear capabilities stay home, we are reluctant to lean too hard, because he is now an indispensable ally against terrorists. "We are doing pretty much what we did in the 80's," conceded an American official who deals with South Asia. "The exigencies change, but the dilemma is still the same. You need Pakistan for some reasons, and therefore you cut the Pakistanis more slack than is prudent."
Whether this is bad policy or just playing the hand history deals is a hard question. It is easy to say we should get tough on countries that fail to toe the line on proliferation, but how tough is enough? Do we crack down on Pakistan to the point where we endanger Musharraf, and get a new Taliban in his place?
Some of our nuclear worries have grown because of a simple lack of attention. In 1994, President Clinton signed an agreement to supply North Korea with energy if it stopped reprocessing nuclear fuel into bomb-grade material. The deal averted a showdown, but afterward the Clinton administration -- diverted by other problems and intimidated by Congressional critics who said the deal was a sellout -- let things slide. Now, nine years later, the problem is back to haunt us.
Bush officials love to castigate Clinton, calling his North Korea deal appeasement. In fact, the agreement could have been a successful first step in defusing a North Korean threat, but it became an excuse to kick the problem down the road.
"The United States has trained Iranian engineers at M.I.T., winked at Israel and certainly in the case of North Korea prevaricated and not paid enough attention," said Sokolski, the former Defense aide. "Is it all our fault? No. But no American administration has done enough, not by a long shot."
The world of people who worry about nuclear weapons for a living is divided into two hostile camps, which sometimes seem more absorbed in fighting each other than in containing the spread of nuclear weaponry. The traditional arms controllers are advocates of treaties, export controls, international agencies and sanctions -- an elaborate regime intended to avert the spread and use of nuclear weapons. They will tell you that arms control has worked, that the handful of countries we worry about as nuclear pretenders is the same handful we worried about 20 years ago. The number of nuclear states has held at eight (the U.S., Britain, France, Russia, China, Israel, India, Pakistan), plus, it is now presumed, North Korea. And several countries (Argentina, Brazil, Taiwan) have backed away. The arms controllers say that what is needed now is to shore up those multilateral disciplines, fortify their enforcement and restore the sense of taboo surrounding these weapons. At the heart of their argument is a conviction that nuclear weapons, per se, are a hazard of a unique kind, and that part of discouraging their spread is a willingness to reduce our own arsenals -- at least to minimal levels, and ideally, in some future verifiable realm, to nothing.
Opposing the arms controllers is a new and ascendant camp, which asserts that the old constraints have broken down. Against the ineffectual diplomacy of traditional arms control, they offer a relatively coldblooded self-interest and confrontation most fulsomely demonstrated by the invasion of Iraq, although the menu of options includes surgical intervention, blockades, economic sanctions and the purely political muscle of public exposure and brutal candor.
In the nuclear world, traditionalists talk about "nonproliferation." The new school prefers the more muscular term "counterproliferation," which refers to a subset of activities involving the military. It should not surprise you to learn that under President Bush, the White House office responsible for these issues has renamed itself to incorporate the word "counterproliferation." Iraq was the first "counterproliferation" war.
There are serious tactical differences within the administration about how thoroughly to purge the legacy of old-fashioned arms control. But the senior policy makers in the area of arms control -- at the Pentagon, the State Department and the White House -- are pretty uniformly of the diplomacy-has-failed school. The principal players, like Under Secretary John Bolton at State, Under Secretary Douglas Feith and Assistant Secretary J.D. Crouch at Defense and Robert Joseph, who runs the nuclear franchise at the National Security Council, have voluminous records as fierce critics of the arms-control gospel from their days on the outside.
The counterproliferationists put little faith in treaties. Last year they successfully discarded the Antiballistic Missile Treaty, which prohibited weapons to shoot down incoming missiles for fear that this kind of defense would ignite a new arms race. The White House has sworn that the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, which would do what its name suggests, will never be ratified. As for the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which entered into force in 1970 and is supposed to limit the spread of nuclear technology and material, the administration accepts it as a bequest from the past but regards it as pointless. Only those who find it in their interest to obey will do so, Bush officials say, and the rest will cheat.
To the counterproliferators, the main problem is not nuclear weapons; it is bad regimes armed with nuclear weapons. Treaties and test bans, they say, limit the behavior of only the kinds of law-abiding people who obey treaties -- people like us. Thus the administration opposes any treaties that might inhibit us from developing new additions to our nuclear arsenal. And counterproliferators insist on our right to explore new species of nuclear weaponry, like precision-guided bunker-busters to cope with defenders who have buried their defenses under thick layers of concrete.
The logic at times resembles the tautology of an N.R.A. bumper sticker: If nukes are outlawed, only outlaws will have nukes. The Bush policy is to worry about the outlaws rather than the nukes.
In the world of nuclear affairs, they are the party of new ideas. The first was missile defense, reviving the Reagan-era scheme to intercept incoming ballistic missiles carrying nuclear warheads by using killer rockets, lasers and other devices. Since abandoning the A.B.M. treaty last year, the administration has raced to deploy the first antimissile batteries, even before demonstrating that they are reliable. Missile defenses are generally presented as the answer to a rogue nuke from a regime like North Korea or a missile obtained by terrorists. But their actual purpose is more complicated. What missile defenses are supposed to do is give America greater freedom of action as it goes about the missions it sets for itself -- protecting allies, for example, or disarming new threats. In theory, missile defense means a thug with a nuke cannot hold us at bay.
Since the administration pushed forward with deploying the shield, other countries have begun approaching us to help them introduce missile defenses against nuclear neighbors. Officials in Japan, rattled by North Korea's nuclear threat, have accelerated talks with the U.S. about installing missile defenses. India, too, has proposed that America help it obtain antimissile batteries -- either Israel's Arrow or the American Patriot. The Defense Department has supported this proposal, seeing India as a counter to the long-range threat of China. The State Department is reluctant, worrying that it will provoke Pakistan into a nuclear arms race or a domestic upheaval.
The second new idea on the Bush agenda is the one we have just witnessed, a greater willingness to use force either to pre-empt a threat before it becomes imminent or to reinforce a new, coercive diplomacy. Arms controllers tend to regard counterproliferators as unilateralists, carelessly provocative in their speech and quick to reach for a gun. Counterproliferators, in turn, paint traditional arms controllers as idealists and wishful thinkers. Neither side is entirely wrong.
In February, Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, paid a visit to Iran. His trip attracted little attention in a world absorbed by the search for illicit weapons in Iraq, and his subsequent public statements were characteristically bland. He did not accuse the Iranians of anything. But what drew him there was powerful evidence for the counterproliferators' complaint that arms control is not working.
The essential bargain that induced nonnuclear states to sign the Nonproliferation Treaty was this: If you pledge to refrain from arming yourself with bad atoms, you will be rewarded with a supply of good atoms -- a peaceful nuclear energy program. Inspectors from the I.A.E.A. will drop by occasionally to make sure you stay within bounds -- that the nuclear fuel for generating electricity is all properly booked and sufficiently diluted. (The most difficult ingredient for a bomb maker to come by is not the design or the engineering; it is uranium or plutonium, distilled to a weapons-grade concentration.)
Under these ostensible safeguards, the Russians sold Iran a 1,000-megawatt nuclear reactor and helped install it in Bushehr. The Russians agreed to supply the nuclear fuel for the entire life of the reactor and to cart away the used fuel so it could not be reprocessed into something dangerous.
So ElBaradei must have felt some chagrin when, on Feb. 9, Iran's president, Mohammad Khatami, disclosed that Iran had a little something going on the side. While the world was preoccupied next door with Iraq, Khatami offhandedly divulged that Iran had secretly begun building two plants for enriching uranium. After his visit, ElBaradei said that one plant was nearly ready for operation and that a much larger one was under construction.
The Bush administration is convinced that Iran has exploited the peaceful auspices of the Nonproliferation Treaty to shinny up the pole toward a nuclear-weapons program. Khatami's disclosure -- although accompanied by the ritual promises of purely civilian intentions -- is about as close to a confession as critics could want. It seems to confirm not only that the system can be circumvented, but also that the system actually gives would-be violators a leg up.
One American official told me that if the Iranians run the Bushehr reactor for five or six years, withdraw from the nonproliferation treaty (as North Korea just did) and route all their radioactive material through a reprocessing plant, they would end up with enough radioactive material to build something like 100 nuclear weapons. And this is not a problem that would necessarily be solved by regime change. In Iran, which lives in a hostile neighborhood and retains more than a little Persian pride, the reformers seem just as dedicated to a nuclear future as the mullahs.
The administration's solution, so far, is to lean hard on the Russians (as President Clinton also did, to little effect). The Bush officials hope the new disclosures will finally embarrass the Russians into clamping down. They also hope the Iranians and their sponsors will take the overthrow of Saddam Hussein as fair warning.
"I think the presence of 200,000 American troops on their border for X period of time may tend to concentrate their attention," observed a senior American official.
The ElBaradei visit also illustrates a second congenital flaw in the nonproliferation regime: enforcement depends almost completely on the cooperation of the suspects. The International Atomic Energy Agency, created at the United Nations in the 1950's to manage the distribution of nuclear materials, was born toothless. President Eisenhower wanted the agency to retain strict control of material and conduct intrusive inspections. The Soviet Union, India and France wouldn't hear of it. ElBaradei's minions cannot pop a surprise inspection. They go where they can persuade the inspected countries to let them go.
ElBaradei, upon learning that Iran had a parallel nuclear processing program growing in secrecy, could do little more than plead with the culprit for additional inspection authority that would "enable us to provide more comprehensive assurances" that Iran's program is just intended to produce electricity. Iran promised to think about it.
Another way in which the nonproliferation rules work against their professed intentions is illustrated by Pakistan. Like India and Israel, Pakistan is an outlier, a nuclear country that never signed the treaty. The five nuclear powers that signed are obliged to have no hand in the nuclear programs of these outsiders, lest we confer legitimacy.
But the biggest fear in Pakistan is not that its program might be legitimized. It is that Pakistan's nuclear weapons may be vulnerable -- to precipitous use in a conflict or to acquisition by terrorists.
Thus it might be a good idea for the U.S., which has abundant experience helping Russia lock up its nuclear material against diversion, to help Pakistan do the same. But the treaty forbids even this benign form of cooperation.
Despite the treaty, one U.S. official who deals with South Asia told me, the administration has offered to help Pakistan impose more sophisticated controls on its nuclear program, like "physical safeguards" to lock down sites where fissile materials are kept.
"We've entered a dialogue," the official said. "We'll figure out how we come to terms with our conscience later." 
Defense Minister Shigeru Ishiba's office in the headquarters of the Japanese Defense Agency is furnished with dozens of meticulous replicas of Japanese warplanes and battleships displayed in glass cases. Although Japan technically does not have an army, a navy or an air force, this is scale-model testimony to the fact that it actually has one of the world's largest military budgets. Thanks to the nuclear tantrums of North Korea, Ishiba's collection is likely to grow.
Could it grow to include Japanese nuclear weapons? 
Even to suggest such a thing causes media hyperventilation in Japan, the only country to have had its citizens incinerated by nuclear weapons. The nuclear taboo is backed by strong public opinion. North Korea's flamboyant withdrawal from the nonproliferation treaty, however, raised the prospect of a hostile and unstable regime holding nuclear warheads just an eight-minute ballistic-missile flight from Tokyo. And some Americans in the neoconservative choir that accompanies the Bush administration have been advocating a nuclear Japan as a countermove to North Korea. 
When I visited Tokyo in March, to see if I could glimpse a nation with the first inkling of an urge to get in the nuclear game, the defense minister and everyone else I talked to, including the most hard-line nationalists, said it is not about to happen. Even Shingo Nishimura, a staunch parliamentary militarist who was described to me as "the Richard Perle of Japan" (he was once fired from the cabinet for lamenting Japan's nuclear impotence), said he does not favor Japan producing nuclear weapons. What he advocates is the United States stationing a battery of intermediate-range nuclear missiles in Japan, under American control, and even that is viewed as a fringe opinion.
But not all the ripple effects of nuclear proliferation are nuclear. The convulsions over North Korea have given a serious boost to the idea of Japan collaborating in the American missile defense system. That standoff has also prompted a discussion of whether Japan might even need the ability to "pre-empt" a North Korean attack. 
Shortly before I visited Ishiba in March, he suggested that if the North Koreans seemed poised to attack Japan, Japan would have the right to launch a pre-emptive attack. This set off a very Japanese cycle of hand-wringing. What did he mean by that? Would it violate Japan's Constitution, which takes "defense" extremely literally? Did it reflect doubts about America's commitment to defend the islands?
Between draws on a smoke-ender nicotine inhaler, Ishiba explained to me that, alas, Japan does not have the ability to pre-empt anything. Its F-15 fighters cannot make it to North Korea and back without refueling, and Japan has no refueling planes. Nor does it have the precision-guided weapons to take out enemy silos once they got there. 
"There are some Japanese who are surprised that while spending the world's second-largest military budget, Japan still does not have any capability of that kind," Ishiba lamented. You can expect to see refueling planes and precision munitions on Japan's next defense shopping list.
The defense minister said that if he had the requisite hardware, he could conceive of striking North Korea only in response to an imminent threat -- if, as he put it, North Korea vowed to turn Tokyo into a "sea of fire" and then began fueling its missiles. But by then it would probably be too late to do anything about it.
It was hard to tell whether this pre-emption talk was a tentative step toward a more assertive Japan or a devoted client's nod to the Bush doctrine or simply a shrewd politician grabbing a chance to expand his budget. Maybe all three.
The idea of nuclear pre-emption did not begin with the Iraq war. Robert Litwak, director of international studies at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, has found five earlier instances when states seriously considered using military force to prevent the spread of unconventional weapons. President Kennedy contemplated a preemptive strike on China's nuclear facilities before its first test explosion in 1964, but decided America could cope with a nuclear China. Israel in 1981 bombed Iraq's Osirak nuclear reactor, enduring much criticism but setting back Saddam's nuclear program significantly. The 1991 gulf war plan targeted Iraq's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons programs, although it was a secondary motive for the war. President Clinton thought hard about taking out North Korea's nuclear facilities in 1994, but instead managed to negotiate his way out of what advisers feared would be a new Korean war. And U.S. cruise missiles destroyed a pharmaceutical plant in Sudan in 1998, ostensibly linked to production of nerve gas -- a claim that has been disputed.
Litwak told me he intended his research, published in the winter issue of the quarterly Survival, as "an antidote to both right-wing triumphalism and left-wing hysteria about pre-emption. The bottom line is, it is an instrument of policy, but not a silver bullet. "
That is exactly the reality the Bush administration has run into in North Korea. While the Pentagon has a contingency plan to bomb the country's nuclear facilities, and it could become a serious option, a senior official told me, "Nobody's really seriously arguing that within the administration -- that we should do it soon, anyway." The North Korean leader may just be crazy enough to respond by raining artillery shells on the metropolis of Seoul, or lobbing a missile at Japan.
So, what does a counterproliferation strategy for North Korea look like? I asked two Bush officials, both senior enough to have a say in what the administration ultimately decides. The first official argued that the best way to deal with North Korea is to encircle it, cut off all aid and wait for Kim Jong Il to fall. Buying his disarmament with food and oil, even if Kim was willing to bargain, would just perpetuate the regime and would be "morally repugnant," he said. And the administration is pretty sure Kim will not bargain away such a powerful weapon.
"If we could have containment that's tailored to the conditions of North Korea, and not continue to throw it lifelines like we have in the past, I think it goes away," said this official. "It's a bankrupt economy. I can't imagine that the regime has any popular support. How long it takes, I don't know. It could take two years."
And what is North Korea doing during that time?
"I think it'll crank out, you know, half a dozen weapons a year or more. We lived with a Soviet Union that had tens of thousands of nuclear weapons, including thousands of them pointed at us. We just have to cope."
I recounted this fatalistic view to officials in Asia and to American experts, and most were horrified. As they pointed out, it has some rather serious holes. First, North Korea, unlike the Soviet Union, will sell anything to anybody for the right price. Second, a collapsing North Korea with nukes may not be as pretty a picture as my official informant anticipates. Third, if this collapse means a merger of the peninsula into a single, unified Korea -- that is, if South Korea becomes a de facto nuclear power -- that will bring little joy to Japan or China. The second American official I spoke to agreed with his colleague that the Bush policy should include economic sanctions, and that a failure of the regime would be a desirable goal. But he was uneasy with the idea of letting North Korea's nuclear arsenal grow until the day of collapse. Before that would be tolerated, the administration would take a closer look at a military strike. "The only acceptable end state," he said, is "everything out."
Toleration of a nuclear North Korea, he said, would send a message to the Iranians and others: "Get your nuclear weapons quickly, before the Americans do to you what they've done to Iraq, because North Korea shows once you get the weapons, you're immune."
I asked this official whether he would favor letting nuclear weapons fall into the hands of friendly countries in Asia. After all, say some of the most ardent hawks, there are no bad weapons, just bad regimes. Some say this would produce a grand strategic result: China, which they see as America's most likely threat in the long run, encircled by nuclear-armed allies of America. We could even bring home our troops and let our friends police the region.
The official weighed his answer for a minute. "I notice a lot of my friends are saying, By God, give them to the Japanese, give them to Taiwan," he said. "I'd rather not. My ideal number of nuclear-weapons states is one."
Within the Bush administration, that official's comments represent the sober (and, at least for now, prevailing) view. We want nukes out of the hands of bad guys, and we are not yet proposing to give nukes to good guys. To critics, though, including much of the world abroad, that last sentence also reflects a frightening arrogance. My ideal number of nuclear-weapons states is one. Why is the ideal number not zero?
Nuclear weapons have always been more about psychology than about war. The power consists in having them, not in using them. A sense of awe, mingled with something like shame, characterized the first nuclear era. Previous American presidents at least paid lip service to the ultimate dream of a nuclear-free world -- and some, notably Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan, seem to have genuinely believed in it.
The stigma attached to nuclear weapons had real power. Kenneth Watman, chairman of the war-gaming department at the Naval War College, told me that throughout the cold war he observed or read about innumerable simulations of crises between NATO and the Warsaw Pact. In almost every case, the actors portraying the decision makers balked at using their nuclear weapons. Even in a game, even with their backs to the wall, even players who were foaming at the mouth held back, Watman said. "It's the pure lunacy of it. The disproportion between ends and means."
Watman says he believes this important psychological threshold has lowered since the Indian and Pakistani tests in 1998, when the rest of the world could not muster a strong response. Some say the Bush administration is further eroding the sense of taboo by advertising its Home Depot of new nuclear gadgets, by scorning treaties aimed at preventing bigger and more modern nuclear arsenals, by insisting on the right to test, by dreaming aloud of an American monopoly.
"In the cold war, they were viewed as weapons of last resort," said Pervez Hoodbhoy, a Pakistani nuclear scientist who is one of his country's most articulate disarmament advocates. "Now they are viewed as a means to fight wars. This is the final nail in the coffin of a nuclear-free world. What kind of message is that sending to the rest of the world?"
This is not the view of traditionalists alone. Henry Sokolski, a critic of the way the Nonproliferation Treaty has been implemented and a supporter of President Bush, says the cavalier attitude of some in the administration on testing, new battlefield nukes and international agreements is dangerous. Sokolski argues that nuclear weapons are like the slave trade -- an evil that transcends the sovereign rights of states, and one that should be battled by all means. Several Bush hawks have picked up the slave-trade analogy and used it to argue, for instance, that we have a right to intercept weapons traffic on the high seas. But Sokolski says some that administration officials miss the point. As long as the U.S. exempts itself from the opprobrium bestowed on nuclear weapons, it will lack the moral authority to bring the rest of the world along.
"Ultimately, like slavery, you have to be willing to argue against it wherever it is -- including getting away from our own reliance on it," he said.
Paul Bracken, a Yale political scientist who set out to define the second nuclear age in a prescient book published four years ago, "Fire in the East," began as a scholar of military strategy, but got bored with the subject and added a second career as an expert in global corporate strategy. He still teaches political science at the Yale School of Management, and when I called him at his campus office not long ago, he sounded exasperated at the polarization of the debate over nuclear proliferation. He agrees with the Bush hawks that the old arms-control regime has become increasingly irrelevant, and he regards the war in Iraq as "the most important arms control action in 50 years." Yet he agrees with the traditionalists that the administration hawks fail to understand the dangers of overheated rhetoric and the real value in arms-control diplomacy. Neither side, he says, seems able to climb up from its ideological trench.
"We had a nonproliferation regime that worked into the 90's, and then failed," Bracken said. "How many other government programs can you point to that worked for 25 years? If I can find a new arms control that works for 25 years, and then fails, I will break open the Champagne."
What might a new arms-control regime look like?
In the first nuclear age, the Americans and the Soviets studied each other intensely, negotiated constantly and over time learned to communicate their intentions clearly. The new players are more mysterious to us, and the administration sometimes seems more inclined to moralize about them than to study them and their motives for seeking to go nuclear. We know little, for example, about how North Korea's leader thinks, and even Iran -- which is both more accessible and more complicated than North Korea -- is regarded in some parts of Washington as a cartoon evil.
A new arms-control regime might begin by assessing the motives that tempt states to go nuclear, and then figuring out how to remove the temptation. It would necessarily be more engaged, less smug and more versatile. Some potential nuclear states might be amenable to swapping their weapons programs for a chance at prosperity. Some might respond to assurances that they will not be attacked, backed up by security guarantees or new alliances the U.S. would foster. Arms controllers are mostly dogmatic in their rejection of missile defenses, but it's worth studying whether missile defense -- which may or may not ever be useful to protect America from a nuclear attack -- could be useful in some regions to persuade potential nuclear states that they can live without these weapons.
Some countries could lose interest in nuclear weapons if we played a more active role in defusing the regional grievances that keep them on edge -- notably the border dispute between India and Pakistan, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. A few will prove incorrigible, at which point we choose between containment and forcible disarmament.
The administration is clearly right that a new arms control cannot rest entirely on the illusory safety of talks and treaties and U.N. resolutions. The autocrats most likely to be dangerous to us if they get nuclear weapons are the leaders least likely to care about staying in the good graces of the "international community," whatever that is. A new arms-control regime should distinguish among threats and offer a menu of options appropriate to the danger, from inspection to coercion. It would draw on military pressure and economic sanctions, along with the softer diplomacy that the counterproliferators scorn. It would not disdain international agreements but would demand smarter treaties, backed by intrusive inspections and rigorous enforcement. 
And it would accept the solemn responsibility -- a particularly American responsibility -- to restore the special stigma of nuclear explosives. The destructive power of these weapons is unique and breathtaking, and almost impossible to confine to military targets. Chemical and biological weapons, horrible as they are, cannot match them as agents of catastrophe. A strategy that focuses exclusively on regimes and not on weapons themselves has several flaws, and the most obvious one is this: when regimes change, weapons remain. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The United States conducted aboveground nuclear tests, shown in these declassified photos, from1945 to 1962. After the Limited Test Ban Treaty in 1963, the tests went underground. 6/9/62 Christmas Island (now Kiritimati), Pacific Ocean. 5/25/52 Nevada desert test site. 11/19/51 Nevada desert test site. 6/18/57 Nevada desert test site. 6/29/58 Enewetak atoll, Pacific Ocean. (from "100 Suns," by Michael Light, to be published by Knopf in October) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); COSMETICS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); RELIGION (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (77%) NEVADA, USA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%) PAKISTAN (95%); INDIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KIRIBATI (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHRISTMAS ISLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%) PAKISTAN; IRAN; PAKISTAN; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



73 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 3138 words

HEADLINE: Eggheads Unite 

BYLINE:  By Daniel Duane; Daniel Duane is the author of "A Mouth Like Yours," a novel to be published next year by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

 BODY:
Michael Janson, a tall, well-mannered University of Pennsylvania doctoral student, seethes about the modern university: beholden to corporate donors, enthralled by corporate-management strategies, all too willing to exploit the workers -- including its own graduate students -- who make the place run. With a gracious, raised-right humility in his brown eyes, permanent-press khakis and a fashion-free haircut, Janson makes an unlikely radical: he looks like someone whose life will work out fine if he just keeps showing up. But for more than two years, Janson, a budding political scientist, has played David to the University of Pennsylvania's Goliath. 
 In 2001, after watching N.Y.U. teaching assistants form a trade union, Janson and a handful of others decided to try it at Penn. Motivating them is their perception that the corporate university exploits teaching assistants as cheap labor in a way that -- most galling of all -- eliminates the professorships those T.A.'s are ostensibly training to get. 
 University fund-raising depends primarily on high-profile faculty publishing, so the smart money cuts the total number of professors in order to spend big on a few stars and give them enough free time to stay famous. Graduate students, serving as T.A.'s and even as lecturers, pick up the teaching slack. This makes for a great fiscal model -- tenure produces high fixed costs, while disposable T.A.'s work for peanuts. But it also creates an ever-greater oversupply of Ph.D.'s competing for ever-fewer tenured jobs. Back when graduate students could reasonably see themselves as apprentices bound for glorious lecture halls, the low pay was tolerable, but when T.A.-ships look like the university's way of balancing the budget at the expense of their graduate students' futures, it feels like an outrage. Administrators have made the mood only worse by sending their own salaries through the roof; Penn's president, Judith Rodin, the highest-paid of them all, makes more than a million dollars a year if you include other corporate-board fees. No surprise, then, that fed-up T.A.'s like Janson are at last taking matters into their own hands. 
Private universities fall under federal labor law administered by the National Labor Relations Board, and anyone seeking to start a union and guarantee that it will be recognized by his employer must follow the board's guidelines. The initial step is defining the group of employees you are trying to unionize and getting a majority of them to sign the board's authorization cards, which would allow the union to negotiate a contract on their behalf. At N.Y.U., the graduate-student organizers accomplished this in 2000. But the university disputed the claim by the T.A.'s that they were employees, and the National Labor Relations Board held hearings before going ahead with a union election. At those hearings, the administration argued that T.A.'s are just students learning how to teach -- and are therefore not entitled to collective bargaining. Virtually every elite university, facing an expensive future, rallied to support N.Y.U., with friend-of-the-court briefs filed by Columbia, Johns Hopkins, M.I.T., Princeton, Stanford, Yale and many others.
Despite the heavy firepower, the National Labor Relations Board agreed with the contention that T.A.'s are employees, doing real work for real pay. At the subsequent union election, T.A.'s voted in a new United Auto Workers local, which quickly scored a raise and much improved benefits. Almost overnight, T.A.'s began organizing at Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Tufts and, most recently, Penn. Unwilling to share N.Y.U.'s fate, administrators at these schools are fighting back with ferocity, producing an unseemly family feud in which Ivy League doctoral candidates -- arguably the blessed of the earth -- claim exploitation while their appointed guardians pay millions to sic anti-union law firms on their own best and brightest.
Following the example set by N.Y.U.'s grad students, Janson reached out to the national trade unions for help in organizing at Penn. Organized labor has been steadily losing membership since the 1970's -- making academia a welcome market -- and both the United Auto Workers and the American Federation of Teachers vied to negotiate on behalf of Penn's graduate students. After choosing the American Federation of Teachers, Janson and his colleagues immediately received financing and legal support. They also received the help of a professional organizer named Rich Klimmer. A silver-haired ex-Teamster, Klimmer has a penchant for real-world pith that acts like a natural tonic on young scholars. ("I'll tell you," Klimmer grumbles, "I had more control over my job wrestling drums at Big Ben Chemical than any T.A. on this campus.") Together, Klimmer, Janson and their newly christened Get-Up (Graduate Employees Together-University of Pennsylvania) again followed N.Y.U. in defining their group of union-eligible employees as all T.A.'s, except M.B.A. candidates, and all social science and humanities research assistants. Once they collected a majority of pro-union signatures from the group, Get-Up asked the National Labor Relations Board for a Penn union election. Because the university objected to the union, a hearing was held in January 2002, and the university's lawyers staged 28 days of testimony arguing that T.A.'s are not employees. (The union testified for four days.) But the labor relations board followed its own N.Y.U. precedent and scheduled a union election for February of this year. 
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. recently announced a campaign to reposition the dying labor movement as a "counterweight to unchecked corporate power," and in the days before the Penn vote, Get-Up followed the new A.F.L.-C.I.O. script to the letter -- demanding not just more money but also the more noble sounding "voice in employment" and pitching the freedom to organize as a fundamental human right, akin to the freedoms of speech and religion. 
In the Get-Up office, bright-eyed 20-somethings surrounded by cookie boxes, coffee cups and the beat of radical rap music, frantically prepared for a pre-election get-out-the-vote rally, to be held outside President Rodin's office. Janson himself was nowhere to be seen -- he was off browbeating individual T.A.'s into promising to vote pro-union. But his presence was everywhere. "Hey, Janson," someone yelled into a telephone, "wait, you organized this girl where? At the ballet?" A rosy-cheeked sociologist laughingly admitted that Janson "organized" an education student at a recent funeral: "He said it was O.K. She didn't know the deceased very well." So dogged is Get-Up's determination that during an afternoon of in-person cold calls, I overheard one female grad student tell the union crew, "You know, you're like the third group that's visited in five days, and I don't even know any of you, so I'm getting kind of freaked out." Chuckling and bashful, that rosy-cheeked sociologist admitted, "Yeah, it is kind of like a cult."
A few days before the election, walking around the Penn campus feels like moving back through the growth rings of an ancient tree, passing first Sansom Common, a new corporate-partner development that includes a Barnes & Noble Penn bookstore and a DoubleTree Penn hotel. The next ring records a simpler age of industry-education alliance, the midcentury Modernist box of the Annenberg School for Communication. After that comes the first ring old enough to merit the Colonial Williamsburg treatment, with date-of-construction signs on classic old fraternities. Penn's symbolic center, where Get-Up will hold its get-out-the-vote rally, is College Hall, the 19th-century Victorian masterpiece housing Rodin's wood-paneled office. Brought in by the trustees in 1994 in part to trim the staff, Rodin infuriated Philadelphia's working class by appointing the management consultants Coopers & Lybrand and eliminating more than 3,500 positions -- breaking a decades-old union in one instance, simply by moving the Penn Faculty Club across the street to the new DoubleTree hotel. In addition, she appointed a Coopers & Lybrand employee as her executive vice president and publicly referred to herself as Penn's C.E.O., making her the perfect windmill for the tiltings of anxious graduate students. 
With contemporary art on her walls and her hair expertly frosted, Rodin offers an absolute stonewall to every pro-union claim. The corporatization of the university is "completely spurious," she says. "It's obviously a great rallying point. 'They're so corporate!' Or, 'She's so corporate!' And we are the largest private employer in Philadelphia, but we don't sell soda. We provide a terrific education." Rodin also offers the unusual opinion that "there is no crisis in doctoral education," suggesting instead that the recession is simply squeezing the national employment picture. Doesn't Penn rely economically on the T.A.'s who teach, by union measures, about 70 percent of Penn's undergraduate instruction time? "Absolutely not." Rodin's objections to the union, she insists, are not economic at all, but academic -- what if professors have to negotiate educational matters with labor representatives? And even emotional -- what if unions damage campus collegiality? "We don't think our students are our employees," she says. "We think they're our protegees. We think we're nurturing and nourishing them, and the first time a student files a union grievance against a faculty member, it will transform that relationship forever." She glosses over, of course, the fact that at public universities that have long had T.A. unions there is little evidence of this happening. 
Rodin's anti-union major domo and deputy provost, Peter Conn, who looks as if he loves to eat, loves to argue and gets most of his exercise gesticulating, is considerably more worried about graduate-student malaise. As for why those students continue to be so outraged upon finding that the bad job data apply to them too, well: "The way they hear 'chances are one in five' is: 'I'm one. I'm terrific!' And they are terrific! You could probably open every Coke can in the building with the Phi Beta Kappa keys some of these people carry." Conn also, however, offers a compelling counterargument to the T.A.'s. At a cherry-wood table beneath dusty old oil portraits, Conn points out that like all private universities, Penn gives Ph.D. students free health care and tuition and even a monthly stipend. Penn assumes this burden to fulfill its core mission, producing the next generation of professors. Conn says: "I've told Janson that what keeps me up at night is not the union. It's Princeton. Princeton provides students with better financial support than anybody. Princeton has a lot more money, and it worries me. Harvard has a lot more money. Yale has a bit more money. It's a little deceptive. They don't have as much more money as you think." A result of trying to keep up, Conn explains, is that Penn now offers Ph.D. candidates five-year financing packages that require only two years of teaching, an investment that will cost $125,000 per student, if the waived tuition is counted as income. "Add all this up," Conn says, "and we're paying $145 an hour for the teaching required. Now that's a good job."
Janson will point out that these five-year plans were enacted well after he started organizing, that they are a neat new way of decoupling pay from teaching -- making it easier to argue that these are just apprenticeships -- and that nobody pays to get an academic Ph.D. because the return on investment stinks even when they're paying you. Janson also calls tuition waivers "imaginary funds," and this sends Conn into near-hysteria. "There's no Monopoly money here!" Conn sputters. "Every tuition-waiver dollar is an actual American dollar in my budget! This drives me nuts! Go ask medical or law students who's picking uptheir $27,000. They are. What you've got here is a group of students being paid to get doctorates! It's so preposterous that, I'm sorry" -- he glances at his press secretary -- "she's going to be very angry at me, but it's like looking in a fun-house mirror! 
"And you'll hear this, too." With a revolutionary's tone, perhaps mimicking Janson, Conn says: "'I want a voice. I want a voice!' And I say, 'O.K., let's take a typical graduate program. They're going to make a new hire. That person comes to give a job talk. Who's invited? Faculty and graduate students. That's a voice. The new graduate-student center cost over a million bucks. Why did we do it? Because the -- not unionized! -- graduate students said they needed it. I've been a graduate student myself. I lived in a garage! What more do you want? No, I think unionization is a marker for legitimate concerns about the larger health of Ph.D. education, and there is also this conception that unions are somehow ennobling, but to take that to the conclusion that an Ivy League graduate student researching Edmund Spenser is to be identified with a sanitation worker makes no sense."
In fighting get-up, Penn has employed an anti-union strategy appearing across the Ivy League. It surfaced in a memo to Cornell by the law firm that later represented N.Y.U. and Columbia, and then in a series of talks given by a University of Iowa dean discussing his anti-union experience. At the initial National Labor Relations Board hearings, which are typically held before a regional board officer, this mostly means beating the old dog about T.A.'s not being employees. Once the local board officer follows the N.Y.U. precedent and rejects your plea, the next move is the one N.Y.U. failed to make, appealing the decision to the full five-member National Labor Relations Board in Washington. Brown, Columbia, Tufts and now Penn have all embraced this tactic, finding it especially attractive because, though it allows the elections to proceed, it requires the board to impound the votes, uncounted, until all the appeals can be heard -- thus delaying the results indefinitely. This can be particularly devastating to the momentum of graduate-student movements, their members constantly graduating and moving on with their lives. 
To fight these delaying tactics, Get-Up has employed a strategy used with success by the United Auto Workers against DaimlerChrysler. Organizers have asked potential members, in advance of the election, to sign a petition declaring their support. The hope is to show that a strong majority of students want a union so that Penn will feel compelled to drop the appeal and allow the vote count to go forward. (At Yale, grad students are trying to achieve the same goal but are taking a different course. They are circumventing the National Labor Relations Board by holding a nonbinding union election under the auspices of the League of Women Voters, with the hope that they can pressure Yale into negotiating with them.) 
Thus, in the weeks before the election, Get-Up's organizing has involved not just begging for votes but also for these petition signatures. Meanwhile, Rodin has counterattacked with tens of thousands of fliers making such arguments as the fact that recent health coverage increases -- enacted since Get-Up got up -- might not have been possible under a union, and that unionized graduate students make less money than nonunionized graduate students. (Even Conn acknowledges this last as a howler, given that until recently the only unionized graduate students were at underfinanced public schools.) Most insidious, of course, is the not-so-hidden message behind warnings of a loss of "collegiality": if you think your job prospects are miserable now, wait until you join that union and fall out of favor with your faculty adviser. 
Conn called the pro-union impulse a "marker" for something else, and he is right, because T.A. unions can't get grad students the professorships they really want. But the anti-union arguments are markers, too, for an affection for the status quo and a lack of the moral leadership needed to drag higher education out of its mess. Concerned bodies like the Carnegie and Woodrow Wilson Foundations have suggested remedies like cutting graduate admissions, creating a new class of full-time university teachers and even changing the nature of the Ph.D., but there's no central authority to make it happen, and university self-interest runs the other way. 
At the rally a few days before the election, Janson takes the bullhorn in front of College Hall, within sight of the stacked red letters of the classic 1960's "LOVE" sculpture. Looking dignified in a pressed shirt and yellow tie, in contrast to his shabby-chic friends, Janson focuses the small crowd's attention: in a moment, he says, he will reveal the results of Get-Up's petition drive, the attempt to get people to declare union support before their votes are impounded at the election two days later. But first Janson wants to say a few words: "I am honored," he begins, in a sincere and booming voice, "to be out here with all of you in the cold while the highest-paid administration in the country sits inside in the warmth, with nobody to comfort them but their anti-union lawyers." Janson goes on to give a rousing speech, saying, "It has become clear that we stand for an idea established in these United States over 70 years ago, and in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, that every employee has the right to vote for a union of their choosing." Then, with a great sense of moment, Janson declares that through the petition drive, Get-Up can show a clear majority intending to vote pro-union. Turning to College Hall, he calls out: "So, I say to you, C.E.O. Rodin and Peter Conn, if you really care so much about collegiality, open your door to us and drop this appeal. Because we're going to win this election." 
The crowd erupts into cheers, but the only person opening College Hall's door is a stout, gumshoed police officer chatting with the building's guard. And over the next week, as the election goes forward and the uncounted votes are indeed impounded, it becomes clear that the university has no interest in retracting its appeal. For its purposes, the longer things remain in limbo, the better -- and the National Labor Relations Board gives no indication when it may decide the issue. Further frustrating to the students is that President Bush took advantage of a Senate recess last year to shoehorn in three strong anti-labor appointees to the board. It is possible that the board will decide to overturn the N.Y.U. precedent and assert what administrators have contended all along: that T.A.'s are not employees after all but professors-in-training with no need for a union. If there were professorships to be had, all those T.A.'s would, doubtless, be delighted to see it the same way. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eggs (Bela Borsodi); In one corner, Michael Janson, Penn's graduate-student unionizer; in the other, Peter Conn, Penn's deputy provost and defender of the status quo. (Darin Mickey for The New York Times) Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); PARAEDUCATORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (64%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ORGANIZED LABOR; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (93%) UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 

PERSON: DUANE, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



74 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Commute to Nowhere 

 BODY:
With six-figure salaries and prestigious educations, the executives featured in Jonathan Mahler's article (April 13) reaped the benefits of prosperous times while the average American worker saw only modest economic gains. These men have savings, assets and spouses to provide an economic safety net that most unemployed of more modest means would greatly envy. 
They are also fortunate that they and their families are in good health.
 A more realistic depiction of the perils of the unemployed and uninsured was the one portrayed in a Lives column in February about a woman with cancer and her unemployed husband. Bankrupted by insurance costs, they were on the verge of homelessness and reduced to begging for food money. If politicians wonder what constitutes real fear and terror for most Americans, this story should serve as a brutal economic primer.

A.M. Masisak
Trumbull, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); HOMELESSNESS (70%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: LOMBINO, DAVID; MAHLER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



75 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: Commute to Nowhere 

 BODY:
 I understand that our stagnant economy has inflicted suffering across all socioeconomic levels. But I'm not convinced that these former high-earners and their wives apprehend the relative mildness of their predicament. For example, was it really appropriate for the Casagrande family to receive a Christmas donation from the local Montessori school rather than, say, a poverty-level family that can afford no Christmas gifts, not to mention decent food or clothing?

Geri Modell
North Plainfield, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); CHRISTMAS (83%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS (53%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES 

PERSON: MAHLER, JONATHAN; BRYANT, ANDREA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



76 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1901 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 5-4-03: ENCOUNTER; 
Iraq's Permanent Capitalist

BYLINE:  By Patrick Graham 

 BODY:
Faisal loves his Belgian-made FN-FAL. It's the most balanced assault rifle in the world, he says, and he knows guns. Like many in the Iraqi elite, Faisal likes to hunt. When I dropped by for a barbecue five days after the marines pulled down the Saddam statue in Firdos Square, he showed it to me, holding up the gun by its handle like a scale. We were in the library of his home, which was modeled after a Frank Lloyd Wright design and which he had turned into a sandbagged bunker. Until the Americans arrived, Faisal's street was the safest in the city. Hussein's son Uday had a house eight doors down, and Tariq Aziz lived less than a kilometer upriver. When Faisal invited me for the barbecue, the looting had tapered off slightly but the city was still very unstable. The streets around his house resembled a Medellin comuna, with local militias manning barricades of palm trunks and rubble. Just before midnight, there were a few shots from very close by and we stopped talking to listen. Faisal ran into the library and grabbed his machine gun, and when I followed he told me to stay inside. The gunfire grew heavier. Faisal told the guards to open the gates and yelled "saula" -- charge -- and they ran down the street firing. After a while, I went out to the front of the house and peered down the street. 
I saw Faisal sticking out of the sunroof of his Grand Cherokee, holding the rifle from his waist, looking for looters. 
 At 39, Faisal is compact and wiry. He's unmarried and clearly enjoys being a bachelor. You could see him walking down the red carpet at Cannes in a tux with a blond model a good deal taller than he. Faisal's family is old money, very old compared with his regime-crony neighbors and the nouveau riche "sanction billionaires" who made their fortunes under Hussein. They came to Baghdad as merchants 300 years ago -- trading in tea, dates, sugar -- and at least one of his ancestors was a pasha under the Ottomans. Their name is still closely associated with the monarchy that was overthrown in the 1950's. The family name is so well known in Iraq he didn't want it published here for fear that disgruntled former supporters of the regime might try to kill him. While many of his relatives went to their homes abroad before the American troops arrived in Iraq, Faisal stayed behind during the war to protect the house and his family's holdings, which include a bank, hotels, steel manufacturing and the pharmaceutical company that he runs. 
 Faisal's Baghdad is different from other people's Baghdad. Before the war, there were no bars, no nightclubs, no public spaces where anyone got out of control. It wasn't just dull, it was purposely boring. But not for Faisal. "I had a great time here for the last 10 years," Faisal told me and then added "seriously" when I looked at him a little skeptically. "Too bad you didn't know me before the war. We had parties every night in a guesthouse I own. Well, almost every night -- until the end of the first week of the bombing. You would have learned a lot." He said that he invited businessmen, women and the high-ups in the intelligence service who got drunk and told him what was going on. "That's how this place worked," he said. "You had to know somebody in power, and when you needed a favor, you could call them up." 
Not surprisingly, Faisal had a complex relationship with the regime. He went to primary school with Uday, with whom he was always getting into fights. Uday was really smart, he told me, probably smarter than his father, but unstable. He said that Hussein's younger son, Qusay, was an ineffectual drunkard and lacked ambition. Faisal wasn't amember of the Baath Party -- he said no Baathist would ever have asked him or any of his relatives to join "because the capitalists and the socialists didn't mix." But his family was protected during Hussein's rule, Faisal said, because the regime needed businessmen to keep the country going. "We have been merchants since 1632. We have the respect of the markets, and that still carried some weight. These people were not stupid; they knew how to run the show. We knew them -- we all water-skied down on the river and went hunting in the same areas. Some merchants got too close to them, but we didn't. They were really uncultured, rough around the edges. You couldn't have a conversation with one of them. Listen, Iraq is an old country. We knew each other, we all married each other. But these people weren't part of that. Look at Tariq Aziz. He came to power in the 1970's, that's nothing." The older establishment had to deal with the new regime, which functioned on fear and bribery, he said. "You had to get around the laws, and because they were corrupt, you ended up paying."
The night I attended the barbecue at Faisal's house, his friend Haider, a quiet and nervous man whose family owned an aluminum plant, was devastated by the pillaging, especially of the museum, and asked why the Americans had let it happen. "What will they do?" he kept asking me. Haider said that that afternoon someone had offered to sell him one of Uday's Bentleys for $3,000, and he was offended that someone thought he might want to buy anything stolen. 
Faisal introduced me to a man he called Mr. Printing Press because he owned most of the country's private presses, though Faisal's family also had one. "Too bad you don't speak Arabic," Faisal said. "The guy's a stand-up comedian." The two of them had a routine going, and most of the jokes were about Saddam Hussein. Faisal translated one for me: "Saddam loves chickens. One day he decides that all chickens are going to lay five eggs and puts his son-in-law Hussein Kamel in charge. Everyone says it's impossible, but Hussein Kamel says he doesn't care because that's what the boss wants. So they work on it, and eventually they get the chickens to lay five eggs. So the big man comes to see. He lifts up one chicken, and there are five eggs. And then another, five eggs and then another, five eggs. But then he lifts up one and there is only a single egg. The guy in charge is brought over, he's terrified, and says: 'What can I do? It's a rooster."' 
The first time I met Faisal, three days before the barbecue, he was standing on his street carrying a pair of military binoculars and a pistol and wearing black Ray-Bans. I was looking for a riverfront house used by the Mukhabarat, the Iraqi intelligence service, a few blocks from his place. Faisal was worried that I would be shot by the neighborhood militias, so he offered to walk me down. Inside the Mukhabarat offices, the files were still burning, but we picked through a few. "This is your baby," he said. "It's a listening center." 
The house was filled with eavesdropping equipment, including tiny bugging devices, and banks of old consoles that looked like a recording studio from the 1970's. Faisal found files of orders for bugging operations, many of them without names, but he recognized the telephone-exchange numbers. "542, it's a posh neighborhood -- that's probably someone we know," he said. "I guess my office was bugged too." But what angered him most was that the land had been confiscated years earlier by the Iraqi regime, and he wondered whether, now that the Americanswere here, it would be returned to the family. He was deeply offended that the American military was not doing enough to protect private property, not just houses but the factories that he and others owned. 
Faisal is an evangelical-style capitalist, and one of his biggest beefs with the regime was the way it strangled business. In a way, Faisal is very American. He left Iraq when he was 13, and after attending secondary school in England, he spent a decade in the United States, getting a B.S. at City University in New York, before returning to Iraq. "I liked the lifestyle," he said in a mid-Atlantic New Yorkese. But he never contemplated staying in the United States permanently because, he said, "In Iraq, I'm a somebody."
For the last few years, he had been hoping that Saddam Hussein would go the way of Suharto or follow China's model of liberalizing the economy without internal strife -- or an invasion. "Saddam was doing a good job about security," he said. "The problem was the economy. Ninety-five percent of it was controlled by the government and 90 percent of that was essentially owned by a small clique. And private industry paid high taxes, but under the sanctions most imports were tax free. It was nuts." His biggest worry is that the new government will revert to the old socialist system, leaving a huge public sector and a corrupt system designed to benefit a few. "Iraq needs a privatization czar," he said. "Now, the ministry of industry owns the industries. That's wrong. They should look at it like it's a hostile takeover. Buy it, crack it up, sell it off. If I had control, I'd go to the C.I.A. or whoever is in charge now and get them to put a minister of finance, the heads of the private banks and the business groups in a room and make them come up with a financial solution. They need to set up a preliminary budget, get that money that's in escrow and pay the employees in charge of services. And they have to privatize. The Chinese model is too slow. Iraq needs a quicker pace, say two or three years." 
Faisal seems a natural bridge -- between the United States and Iraq, between the old Iraq and whatever comes next -- and a group of businessmen has been pressuring him to get into politics. But Faisal has been balking. "Hell, I'm a businessman," he says. "I've avoided politics all my life." 
He's being drawn in anyway, though. One night when Faisal and I were out for a drive, we stopped by a man sitting outside his house who Faisal said had worked on the chemical-weapons program. He was on a list of scientists wanted by the United States, and he hoped Faisal would help him surrender with dignity. Another time when I went by Faisal's house, he told me: "This poor guy who just dropped by is a member of the Baath party -- the guy is really scared. He was asking if he can be protected." Faisal's satellite phone rang constantly. These were mysterious calls. "I think that guy was a 'company' man," he said after hanging up one time. Or: "Tikrit is quiet. There was some sort of deal. If you were here yesterday I could have put you on the phone with a guy from Iraqi internal security." 
Ten days after the fall of Baghdad, an Iraqi whom Faisal had known in America and who was working with a new political party moved into Faisal's house, and the parking lot was full of cars owned by his businessman friends. Faisal was playing host to their discussions, but he told me he just wanted everyone to leave so he could open up the pool and get his life back. "All they do all day is sit around and have meetings and come up with slogans like 'Iraq for Iraqis,"' he said. "I've been in politics for four days, and you know what? It stinks." 
He said he was much more interested in getting his businesses back up and running. He seemed sure that he could make money no matter who ended up in charge. "Do you know anyone working for the medical aid agencies?" he asked me. "They might be interested in buying some pharmaceuticals." When I suggested it might be a good time to donate the medicine to the hospitals, he shook his head. "I've been donating to hospitals for the last three months," he said. "It's time to make money." 

GRAPHIC: Photo (James Hill) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FIREARMS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TRENDS (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); TEA MARKETS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%) GRAHAM, PATRICK; HUSSEIN, SADDAM; FAISAL (IRAQI BUSINESSMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



77 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 5-4-03; 
City Slights

BYLINE:  By James Traub; James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
One of the paradoxes of modern urban life is that while cities have regained something of the glamour and prestige they enjoyed 40 or 50 years ago, most of them -- at least the glamorous ones -- are staring down the barrel of financial catastrophe. Big cities have become safer and cleaner; suburbanites are far more willing to send their children to urban universities, or to go downtown to take in a show or even a ballgame, than they were a decade or two ago. But the cities themselves remain woebegone, in part because so much of their potential taxable wealth lies in the suburbs, beyond their reach. 
 New York City, which has a large upper class concentrated in Manhattan and a larger middle class in the outer boroughs, is luckier than most. But save in good years, New York's obligations almost always outrun its revenues. And this ispatently not a good year. The city is facing a deficit of at least $3.8 billion, and possibly quite a bit more, in its projected $44.5 billion budget. Mayor Michael Bloomberg has attacked the obligations side of the ledger -- belatedly, his conservative critics would say -- by proposing $600 million in service cuts and the layoff of 5,400 city workers. But that still leaves the city short, even in its least-bad-case scenario. So Bloomberg hopes to raise another $1.4 billion by reviving a commuter tax that the state allowed to lapse in 1999, and increasing it so that suburban commuters would pay the same New York City income tax as New Yorkers, a figure topping out at 2.85 percent. 
 Nobody, including the mayor, expects so high a rate to be authorized by the state government; a $500 million tax would still count as a victory. But the likeliest outcome may be zilch. Suburban legislators have denounced the commuter-tax idea. Their constituents are already facing big property-tax increases, as well as large hikes in tolls and rail tickets, and lawmakers are not likely to vote for anything that will increase the burden. What's more, Gov. George Pataki has insisted that a commuter tax would cost the city "thousands of jobs." In fact, according to Edward L. Glaeser, an economics professor at Harvard, this claim has not been demonstrated. Glaeser says that his own guess is that while a commuter tax of almost 3 percent might well persuade already jittery employers to leave New York, a more modest tax should have little effect. 
Simply as a matter of equity rather than of economics or politics, you would think that a mayor of New York ought to be able to say to all those doctors and bankers in Westchester, "We've given you a beautifully refurbished Grand Central Terminal, and we've given you Broadway and Central Park and subways without graffiti, and we're paying to protect you from terrorists; give us a mite out of your adjusted gross, for God's sake." You'd think; but you'd be wrong. A decade ago I heard Ed Rendell, then Philadelphia's crusading new mayor, address the conservative reform crowd at the Manhattan Institute. They cheered Rendell when he talked about standing up to the municipal unions and slashing bureaucratic bloat. But when he added that since the city couldn't do it all by itself, he had raised the commuter tax, he was booed. Booed! Urban reform is good as long as the price is paid only by urbanites; suburb-dwellers are free riders.
What's so unfair about this is that suburbanization itself has sped the downfall of many a once-great city. In a 1993 study, "Cities Without Suburbs," David Rusk, a former mayor of Albuquerque, observed that until 1950 almost everyone who worked in a central city area lived there as well, but that thereafter a growing fraction of urbanites lived in the "outer city" and were subject to county rather than municipal government. Cities that managed to absorb their own outer fringes continued to thrive, but the more common pattern, especially in the Northeast and Midwest, was the high-poverty central city surrounded by the ring of wealthy suburbs. "The city-suburban per-capita income ratio is the single most important indicator of an urban area's social health," Rusk concluded.
"Cities Without Suburbs" left barely a ripple, probably because Rusk insisted that the only lasting solution to the problem was the wholesale integration of city and suburb, a proposition that makes a 3 percent commuter tax sound mighty timid by comparison. But it is hard to argue with Rusk's broader point that older cities cannot simply reform their way out of their predicament. At the least, Rusk suggested, central cities must have access to "a larger share of the wealth of metro areas."
It's unlikely that Americans will resume the love affair they had with the urban in the first half of the 20th century, when every town worth its salt had a Great White Way and a Beaux-Arts theater. We are, perhaps irretrievably, a suburban nation. But we are no longer the anti-urban nation that we were. Cities no longer mean "menace"; they mean "culture" and "pleasure" and even "history." The terrorists of 9/11 targeted the World Trade Center because those giant buildings at the tip of Manhattan seemed to them to constitute the very heart of America. Maybe they were wrong; maybe the heart lies closer to Times Square. But it doesn't lie in Greenwich.
Time to wake up and hear the traffic. Our big cities are us. We owe them. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Retrofile) Chart: "THE CENTER CANNOT HOLD""It's the new conventional wisdom: After 50 years of decline, American cities have been reborn as safe and exciting places, certainly to visit if not to live. . . . Yet any notion of a deep and sustained urban revival is premature. If you want to see the real center of American economic life, do not head to Times Square in New York City. . . . Instead, get in your car, because you will need one, and drive 10 to 25 miles out from downtown U.S.A. to the land of new suburban prosperity. Almost all of America's metropolitan areas are experiencing remarkably similar patterns of growth -- a rapid conversion of farmland and open space to a dizzying array of housing subdivisions, shopping centers and office parks. This decentralization of people, businesses and jobs is the real story about America's economy and society. The positive signs of revival in our cities pale in comparison." From"Reviving Cities: Think Metropolitan" (Policy Brief No. 33 for the Brookings Institution), by Bruce J. Katz, June 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); BUDGET FORECASTS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); TRAVEL TICKETS (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SUBURBS; URBAN AREAS 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) TRAUB, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



78 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Learning Spanish: a Tense Undertaking 

BYLINE:  By LILI WRIGHT; LILI WRIGHT teaches English at DePauw University.

 BODY:
AS I pushed my 3-year-old daughter, Madeline, in her stroller down the cobblestone streets of Ronda, in southern Spain, I practiced my question in my head. I wanted to ask Carmen, her day-care teacher, if Madeline was having problems with toilet training at school.
 I found my verb and shifted it into the past tense before pushing through the front door. When the words came out fairly fluently, I puffed up with pride. 
 Carmen cocked her head, a polite gesture the Spanish use to convey that what I have said makes absolutely no sense. 
"Yo?" she asked. "Me?"
I had just asked her if she wet her pants yesterday.
Although it has been a lifelong goal of mine to master a second language, my mission has led to little more than a string of highly enjoyable failures. A French major in college, I spent my junior year in Paris. Somehow, despite the painful hours spent shoulder-to-shoulder with the warty matron who taught phonetics, after rainy promenades with our flighty art history instructor pointing her umbrella at yet another flying buttress, after plowing through Existentialist plays about bald sopranos and people buried neck-deep in sand, I managed to leave the country with only a precarious grasp of French grammar and slang.
Ten years later I set my sights on Spanish. A night class led to a series of trips to Mexico. Language became an excuse to travel. I took courses in Cuernavaca, Guadalajara, San Miguel de Allende and Merida. This spring, eight years later, I am at it again.
I know of few tasks more frustrating, especially as an adult. When we reach a certain age, we're used to being good at things (the rest we ignore). As a writer, someone who makes her living with words, I can't help seeing my inability to discuss intelligently the plot of the film, the meat in the soup, the sound on the street, as beyond humbling. Everyone says children learn languages more quickly than adults. But do they really? Or is it that we as adults expect so much more of ourselves? We know our crude sentences lack the grace and nuance we intend. Our jokes don't translate. It is hard to be a student again. 
When my husband, Peter, our daughter and I arrived in January in Ronda, a whitewashed city perched on a gorge in Andalusia, I immediately enrolled in a language school at the Palacio de Mondragon. More than 100 college students take classes in this 14th-century Moorish palace, most of them Americans. Oh, how quick my academic descent! With one placement test I was demoted from assistant professor to just another amateur in "Basico Dos."
On the first day we began grammar class with idiomatic expressions, a friendly ice breaker. A good person is a chunk of bread. If someone is boring, he is a corpse or furniture or just so-so. And if you're having an off-day, you can say "I am not very Catholic today." Someone who is sexy is like a train or like cheese; if he is really irresistible, he moistens your bread. Our teacher, Ana, acted out this expression, a favorite of hers, by rubbing an imaginary crust down the forearm of an invisible Antonio Banderas then popping it into her mouth.
Later that week we struggled with the subtle differences between ser and estar, the two forms of the verb "to be." Soon, even though we managed to get only half the answers right (which you could do if you knew nothing at all), Ana announced with grim resolve that we were moving to the subjunctive. Everyone nodded solemnly. Oh, yes, we've been there before. 
Subjunctive is a linguistic back breaker, the wall I slam against each time I pick up Spanish. A few years ago a Mondragon student created a cartoon expressing the depths of his subjunctive despair. In the first few cells, a happy-go-lucky student skips off to class. "I love my classes. I speak better Spanish each day. I go to the bars at night. I like my host family." In the next drawing, the professor announces they are to study the subjunctive. The student faints and crashes to the floor. 
The subjunctive is a second set of tenses, a parallel zone used to indicate that whatever is happening is hypothetical or a matter of opinion and might happen in the future, or might not, because maybe it's only what you want or demand or desire and not actually what's real. It is the tense for bad love affairs, for pundits and dreamers.
Despite my academic credentials, I am a mediocre student at best. I steer the class into as many digressions as possible. My notes are a mishmash. Between rules of grammar, I record each tidbit of cultural flotsam. When McDonald's first opened on a central plaza in Ronda, Ana tells us, vandals stoned its bright red sign until police were forced to guard the Big Macs and McPollos all night. Divorce is still relatively rare and can be expensive; spilling wine is considered lucky, as is stepping in dog poop. 
"If it happens," Ana says, "You should rush out and buy a lottery ticket."
As we slog through the rules and exceptions and conjugations, breathing whiffs of gas from the lone leaky heater, I cheer myself up by keeping a list of the most ridiculous things other students say, if only to make my own gaffes seem less egregious: 
I really enjoy smoking myself inthe afternoons.
New York City, including the outer donkeys, has 15 million inhabitants.
Behave yourself as if you were coats in winter.
The U.S. economy is very bad. Even the grapes are unemployed.
Out and about on the streets of Ronda, every conversation is a challenge. Andalusians speak at a furious pace. They chop off the beginnings and endings of words. They lisp. Expressions that worked so beautifully in Mexico don't fly here. In Mexico, I couldn't go half an hour without saying "Mande?" a quick, polite way of asking "What did you say?" Here, when I say it, Spaniards squint and cock their heads quizzically. 
SOME days I get downright petulant before the enormous size of the task ahead. All the vocabulary blurs together (pila, pina, pina, pino, pito, pillo, piso, pico, pio) and I swear that I must have learned every word in the Spanish language by now. But then I look up a new word, tierno, which means tender, and you can't ignore the word tender (what would Luis Miguel and the other crooners do?) or all the others I've tried to cram into my brain today: Landlord. Pacifier. Misfortune. Randy.
Trying to cheer me up, a fellow student points out that, of course, Spanish is impossible. Every verb can be conjugated 96 different ways. Every noun has a gender. There are four different kinds of "you," depending on how intimately you know this particular "you" and how many "you's" there are. Subjunctive aside, I can count 24 different ways to say "you were."
And yet, I enjoy the struggle. It is immensely satisfying to get the words down right. Instead of being just another gawking tourist asking for the menu in English, you can learn how people in other countries think and feel by what they say and how they say it. On a good day you can hear something unexpectedly beautiful come out of your mouth, without being quite sure how you managed it.
Still, at this rate, it doesn't seem likely I'll ever be fluent; so I have set my sights on the next generation. After four months in Spain, Madeline has at least realized what's going on: Spanish people have a different word for everything, and we're all playing a big game trying to learn their words for our things. One of her favorite jokes is to mutter a string of nonsense words, smile proudly and say: "I am speaking Spanish."
I don't know that I am doing much better.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Marcellus Hall) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (77%); HISTORY (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); ART HISTORY (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (76%) ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (58%) SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (76%); MEXICO (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



79 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY; 
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE:  By Joseph Siano

 BODY:
 NORTHWEST EXTRAS -- The Lake Quinault Lodge and Kalaloch Lodge, both on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington State, are giving two nights for the price of one through June 12. At the Lake Quinault Lodge, in Olympic National Park, the deal is good Sunday through Thursday, with savings of $78 to $115. Information: (800) 562-6672 or www.visitlakequinault.com. At the Kalaloch Lodge, overlooking the Pacific Ocean, the offer is valid on log cabins, also Sunday through Thursday, with savings of $93 to $124. Call (866) 525-2562 or see www.visitkalaloch.com.

TRANS-ATLANTIC FINALE -- The Queen Elizabeth 2 will make its last trans-Atlantic crossing on Dec. 15 (after which the new Queen Mary 2 takes over), and the six-day westbound trip is being offered at fares starting at $999 a person, based on double occupancy, with one-way economy-class air fare between the United States and London (government fees, tips and departure taxes extra). The July 22 and Sept. 1 and 25 eastbound trips start at $1,299. The Aug. 17 eastbound and Aug. 26 westbound crossings start at $1,399. Information: (800) 728-6273 or www.cunard.com.

CARIBBEAN SPECIALS -- For those who can leave from La Guardia Airport and book by next Sunday, US Airways Vacations has reduced rates on its Caribbean packages through Dec. 17. The packages include round-trip air fare, accommodations, transfers on the islands and hotel taxes and service charges. Two-night trips range from $299 a person, double occupancy, at the 90-room Crane Ridge Resort in Ocho Rios, Jamaica, to $813 a person at La Sirena Hotel (30 units) on Anguilla. There are two six-night plans available: at the 266-room Royal Antiguan Beach and Tennis Resort on Antigua ($839 a person) and the 131-room Windjammer Landing Villas Beach Resort and Spa on St. Lucia ($1,160). Not all hotels are available on all dates; departures are only on certain days of the week; airport fees are extra; and other restrictions apply. (800) 352-8747 or www.usairwaysvacations.com.

HYATTS FOR FAMILIES -- From June 1 to Aug. 31, 19 Hyatt resorts in the United States, the Caribbean and Hawaii will offer extra nights free after minimum stays of varying lengths, as well as allowing up to two children 12 or under per room to stay and eat free with their parents. Some resorts also provide a free round of golf for children when playing with a paying adult. The third night is free at the Hyatt Regency Scottsdale Resort at Gainey Ranch in Arizona ($180 a night the first two nights), and in Lake Las Vegas ($189 a night). The fourth night is free at the Hyatt resort in Key West ($255 a night for three nights), Waikiki ($265 a night) and Beaver Creek, Colo. ($169 a night), among others. In Aruba, the Hyatt Regency offers the fifth night free, after four nights at $240 a night. (800) 554-9288 or www.hyatt.com. JOSEPH SIANO

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRPORTS (87%); BEACHES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); AIRLINES (73%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); AIRPORT OPERATION (72%); FAMILY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (59%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (59%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (92%); ANGUILLA (79%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); JAMAICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



80 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
Fuji Photo Moves Its Base to Valhalla From Elmsford

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: VALHALLA 

 BODY:
IN the largest commercial leasing deal in Westchester in two years, Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. moved its United States headquarters last week, along with 330 employees, from cramped quarters in Elmsford to 164,000 square feet in an office park here. 
 The United States marketing unit of the Tokyo-based Fuji Photo Film Company has signed a 10-year lease and spent about $10 million to refurbish the space at the Summit at Valhalla, a 102-acre office park built by Cappelli Enterprises in 1990 and acquired by Reckson Associates in 1998. Other tenants at the corporate park include Verizon, PepsiCo and Nortel. 
 The relocation, Fuji executives said, reflects the 30-year-old company's evolution from a photo film company to a major competitor in the digital imaging and information industry. "We had outgrown our old space in more ways than one," said George Tanaka, president and chief executive of the company. "Our new headquarters marks a new chapter in Fujifilm's history and gives us a chance to better reflect what the company is -- that we are more than just a film company." 
The company had occupied 106,000 square feet on six floors at the Taxter Corporate Park in Elmsford since 1986, when it moved its headquarters from New York City to Westchester. Last year, Fuji selected the Valhalla location after a three-year search in Westchester and Fairfield Counties and various other areas. 
Frank Tomasulo, a senior vice president for CB Richard Ellis who was one of the brokers representing the Japanese company, said Fuji wanted to consolidate its space in a building that offered more space per floor than the Elmsford building. In the new location, he said, each of the building's four floors is 70,000 square feet, with Fuji occupying two and a half floors: the third and fourth floors and part of the second. The building also has covered parking for 1,000 cars.
Fuji representatives would not disclose details of their lease. But Salvatore Campofranco, a corporate senior vice president and managing director at Reckson, said asking rents at the glass and concrete building that Fuji is occupying, 200 Summit Lake Drive, are $27 a square foot annually. Comparable office space in the central business district of White Plains goes for the high $20's to low $30's, he said.
The Summit was chosen over sites in lower Westchester or New Jersey, for example, because of its proximity to a broad range of housing for employees in northern Westchester, Putnam and Dutchess Counties and the Danbury area, Mr. Tomasulo said. It is close to the Bronx River and Taconic Parkways for those commuting by car, and Reckson also offers shuttle service to and from the White Plains Metro-North Railroad station.
Finally, the corporate park, which overlooks woods, lakes and rolling hills, provides a setting that seems suitable for a corporate headquarters for Fuji, Mr. Tomasulo said. The Valhalla building has an all-granite atriumlike entrance with a three-story waterfall and offers large vistas of the surrounding countryside. By contrast, the building Fuji occupied in Elmsford, although also Class A office space, is next to a busy interstate and close to other buildings.
Mr. Campofranco said the three office buildings at the Summit had never experienced a high vacancy rate, even during the recession of the early 1990's, when office buildings in the rest of the county did. Reckson bought the buildings at the Summit -- a total of about 600,000 square feet -- for about $150 a square foot. The acquisition included development rights for 800,000 more square feet of office space on the 102 acres, although that option has not yet been exercised.
Fuji's interior space in Valhalla has been designed to serve as a showcase for its products and also to foster greater interaction and communication among employees, said Elisabeth Post-Marner of Perkins Eastman, principal architect for the project. She said the renovation costs were slightly less than $60 a square foot and included gutting the existing space to create a mostly open plan that reflected Fuji's interest in a nonhierarchical work environment.
Toward that end, Ms. Post-Marner designed the floors with most of the space used for cubicles rather than enclosed offices. The cubicles range in size from 8 feet by 8 feet to 8 feet by 12 feet, which is somewhat larger than most workplace cubicles, she said. They are placed so that employees working in the cubicles have access to the large windows overlooking the open space outside the building. Most of the managers' offices are against a interior wall, and have glass sides facing the cubicles. The glass walls and sliding doors to private offices reinforce the sense of a single open area.
Also, the company requested various formal conference spaces and informal gathering areas throughout the new space "to enhance corporate communications," she said. In addition, the new office space includes many areas and wall niches for hands-on product displays of printing equipment and cameras and for customer and employee education. There are plasma screens and monitors throughout the office areas. 
Where possible, the architect said, curved interior walls were installed to avoid the monotony of the rectilinear lines traditionally found in most modern office buildings. The color plan throughout is mostly neutral, but accentuated with Fuji's logo colors, red and green. Some walls, for example, have been painted red and some upholstery is red, while the exit signs, instead of being the usual red, are lighted in Fuji green.
THE company received a $750,000 state grant and a package from Westchester's Industrial Development Agency worth $1.9 million in tax exemptions over 10 years on the purchase of equipment and fixtures. Fuji's lease is the largest commercial real estate transaction of its kind in Westchester since Pepsi Bottling moved in 2001 to 380,000 square feet in Somers in a building formerly owned by PepsiCo, according to records from Insignia/ESG. 
So far this year, the largest commercial rental deal was the Ameriquest Mortgage Company's lease of 118,000 square feet at 333 Westchester Avenue, the former corporate home of General Foods. The property was purchased in 1998 by Charles S. Cohen, a Manhattan real estate developer. The 638,000-square-foot building is now 55 percent leased, according to Colliers ABR, the leasing agent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. has moved from Elmsford into 200 Summit Lake Drive in Valhalla. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) Map of Westchester, N.Y. shows the location of Valhalla.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); RELOCATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (89%); LEASING INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (65%); LAKES (65%) RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: FUJIFILM HOLDINGS CORP (94%); PEPSICO INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); CBRE GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FUJI PHOTO FILM CO 

TICKER: 4901 (TSE) (94%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); CBG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (94%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (54%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%) SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES; SIC3695 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA; 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



81 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2979 words

HEADLINE: So How Much Is That . . . . . . . . Worth? 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
AFFIXING a number to a long-held notion, a major study of Manhattan apartment sales has calculated that there is such a thing as a "condo premium" -- 15.5 percent.
 The study, analyzing nearly 100,000 co-op and condominium sales in the borough since 1984, assessed the value of everything from a fireplace (plus 11.36 percent in a co-op, plus 9.69 percent in a condo) to the all-cash financing required by some buildings (which can drastically affect that condo premium). 
 Designed to control for 41 varying and interacting factors, the study looked at characteristics ranging from the age of a building to the effect of additional square footage on otherwise comparable apartments.
And, at the same time, it examined why co-ops have long dominated the apartment market in New York -- unlike the rest of the country -- even though condominiums provide that price premium and despite the fact that they certainly have made recent inroads in the Manhattan market, particularly downtown.
Titled "The Condominium vs. Cooperative Puzzle," the study was conducted by Michael H. Schill, director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University; Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, a leading Manhattan appraisal company; and Ioan Voicu, a research fellow at the Furman Center. 
It examined 99,491 transactions throughout Manhattan tracked by the Miller Samuel company from January 1985 through the first half of 2002 -- 68,908 co-ops and 30,583 condominiums -- about 85 percent of all the sales during that period.
"We were able to take the value of each unit and pull apart how 41 different attributes and amenities contribute," Professor Schill said. "For example, we have estimated how much the existence of a terrace or a balcony affects value, whether prewar or postwar construction matters."
"We also figured out whether building rules and policies, such as financing limitations, improve value or cause it to decrease," the professor continued. "And we do all of this while taking into account neighborhood, apartment condition and underlying building mortgages."
New York is unique in that co-op apartments greatly outnumber condominiums. According to the Census Bureau's 1999 American Housing Survey, fewer than 2 out of 10 owned apartments in the five boroughs are condominiums, compared with 8 out of 10 across the nation. Yet, over the last decade, the dominance of co-ops has shown some signs of slippage -- reflecting a certain tension between the degree of freedom afforded by a condominium and the greater control over the community's lifestyle that comes with a co-op.
Owning a condominium is akin to owning a private house, with few if any restrictions on whether and to whom the owner can rent or sell the apartment. In a co-op, the buyer is actually acquiring shares in the co-op corporation, as well as a proprietary lease for a particular apartment. Co-ops require buyers to go through a board approval process that examines, among other things, their financial status. And co-ops usually enact more house rules, typically limiting the ability to sublet or, perhaps, regulating the presence of pets in the building. 
Those sorts of controls can, in some cases, limit market appeal. In others -- particularly in the most affluent neighborhoods -- they may enhance it.
"Virtually all multifamily buildings constructed for the ownership market are now being built as condominiums," Professor Schill said. "In addition, some buildings have actually converted from co-ops to condominiums, even though it's a difficult and expensive proposition."
Over all, a condominium premium does exist in Manhattan, the study found. "On average, condominiums are worth 15.5 percent more than cooperative apartments," Professor Schill said, "taking into account neighborhood, location of units, different financing structures and all of the 41 different attributes and amenities we looked at."
Stuart Saft, the chairman of the 2,000-member Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums (300 of them condominiums), said he was "not surprised that there's a premium for condos, because it's easier to get in."
"But once you're in," Mr. Saft continued, "it's much more difficult for the board to provide residents with quiet enjoyment of their apartments, undisturbed by their neighbors."

Apartment Features
41 Characteristics: What They're Worth
 The study examined 24 building characteristics and 17 apartment characteristics (it is available online, starting this weekend, at www.law.nyu.edu/realestatecenter/condo_coop.pdf). "The idea," Mr. Miller said, "was to control for all other characteristics in order to isolate one characteristic or amenity."
Square footage was, obviously, one of the most significant attributes determining value. "If you have identical apartments in terms of number of bedrooms, bathrooms, condition, view -- virtually every characteristic that we controlled for," Mr. Miller said, "every 1 percent difference in square footage between those two apartments resulted in a 0.78 percent premium for condos, and 0.53 percent for co-ops."
For example, he said, "If you have a $500,000 apartment with 1,000 square feet, an additional 10 feet, or 1 percent, would add $3,900, or 0.78 percent, if it's a condo; and $2,650, or 0.53 percent, if it's a co-op."
Looking at the number of bedrooms, the study calculated that each additional bedroom in a condo added 7.11 percent to the price, and 18.53 percent in a co-op. At the same time, each extra bathroom added 10.54 percent to the value of condominiums and 15.53 percent to co-ops.
"Another category we looked at, and of particular concern in the current geopolitical environment, is the doorman lobby," Mr. Miller said. Condos with a doorman or an elevator operator or a concierge enjoyed an 11.5 percent premium, and for co-ops there was an 11.77 percent premium.
Standard appraisal forms employ a somewhat subjective system for rating the condition of an apartment. An apartment in average condition is one that had a substantial renovation between 5 and 10 years ago, "meaning they improved the kitchen, the bathroom or redid the floors -- or any combination of these improvements," Mr. Miller said. "That would be considered the most typical condition by a buyer."
An apartment in fair condition, or below average, is one that needs some type of substantial upgrade -- rewiring, a new kitchen or bathroom. And an apartment in good condition (there is no category for excellent) is one that was substantially renovated within the last five years.
Using average condition as the reference point, the study found that for condos there was a 5.48 percent discount for fair condition and a 3.94 percent premium for good condition. And for co-ops, there was a 1.64 percent discount for an apartment in fair condition and an 8.67 percent premium for one in good condition.
Barbara Corcoran, chairwoman of the Corcoran Group, one of Manhattan's leading brokerage firms, said the premium placed on apartment condition is important, though sometimes overlooked. "Sellers often don't appreciate that a premium is always paid for excellent condition," she said, "especially by buyers who have lived through a previous renovation or maybe lived without a kitchen for a year."
As with apartment condition, the ratings for the view from an apartment are subjective. An average view would be of the building across the street. A fair view, or less than average, would be something like an air shaft or a sunless prospect from a low floor in the rear of the building. A good view would just clear the rooftop of an adjacent building, possibly for one or two blocks. And an excellent view would be anything better than that. "The best would be on a penthouse that fronts Central Park or across a river," Mr. Miller said.
Using average view as the reference point, the study calculated that condominium prices reflect a 1.21 percent discount for a fair view, a 3.48 percent premium for a good view and an 8.42 percent premium for an excellent view. For co-ops, there was a 9.05 percent discount for a fair view, a 3.6 percent premium for a good view and a 7.99 percent premium for an excellent view.
In Ms. Corcoran's estimation, however, "the averages on the views are interesting, but meaningless, when pricing an apartment."
The real-world value of an excellent view in a high-end apartment is much greater than the study suggests, she asserted. "Although the report cites a 7.99 percent premium for an excellent view in a co-op," Ms. Corcoran said, "we have a listing for a seven-room apartment at 870 Fifth Avenue on the back of the building for $2.2 million and an identical one on the front for $3.3 million -- both properly priced, but with the view apartment priced 50 percent higher than the other."
It certainly helps to have a platform from which to enjoy the view -- and, so, the study assessed the added value of balconies and terraces.
A balcony is usually smaller than a terrace and extends out from the building facade, while a terrace is typically larger and sits on top of the apartment below. "For balconies, we saw a 0.9 percent premium for condos and a 6.04 percent premium for co-ops," Mr. Miller said. "For terraces, we saw a 10.7 percent premium for condos and 18.37 percent for co-ops." 
Then there is the internal view -- meditating in front of the flames and harking back, perhaps, to prehistoric times around the campfire.
"The fireplace amenity probably incorporates other characteristics, such as ceiling height and plaster walls in prewar buildings, which we couldn't control for," said Mr. Miller. "But, still, the presence of a fireplace indicates a 9.69 percent premium in condos and 11.36 percent in co-ops."
Ms. Corcoran said: "Everyone loves a fireplace and is willing to pay for it, even if they never use it. It represents everything that people love about 'Old New York,' and it remains one of the ultimate status symbols -- that 'I've arrived.' "
More prosaically, the study goes into some of the dollar-and-cents characteristics affecting a building's value.
For instance, it looked at the proportion of owner-occupied apartments as opposed to sponsor or investor-held units. A building that has more owner-occupied apartments is generally considered more financially stable. And a corollary factor, Mr. Miller said, "is resistance by lending institutions to provide apartment loans in those buildings with a higher investor-sponsor concentration." A building with 20 percent or more investor or sponsor-held apartments experienced a discount of 1.63 percent in a condominium, and 0.15 percent in co-ops.
A building's age plays a role in value -- and in Manhattan, for the most part, the older the better. Comparing prewar (defined as built by the end of 1945) with postwar buildings, the study found that there was a 30.7 percent premium for prewar condos and a 12.7 percent premium for prewar co-ops.

Co-ops vs. Condominiums
Tighter Controls Or Easier Financing
 With its finding that, over all, there is a 15.5 percent premium for condominium apartments, the study stokes a running debate over the advantages of bothforms of ownership.
In addition to the fact that it is easier to buy and sell a condominium apartment, since there is typically no board approval process for purchasers, it is also generally true that condominium owners can freely rent them out -- while, in many cases, co-op owners are barred from subletting or can do so only for short periods. "This means that investors, particularly foreign investors, are going to be much more eager to purchase condominiums," Professor Schill said.
There is also no underlying buildingwide mortgage for condominiums, so owners do not share the same degree of risk for default. If an owner of a co-op apartment fails to pay his or her maintenance (part of which goes toward reducing the underlying mortgage), the other shareholders must make up the difference to avoid foreclosure by the lender that provided the underlying mortgage.
Mr. Saft of the council of co-ops and condominiums pointed out, however: "Notwithstanding the fact that there isn't a mortgage on the condominium building, there is still some risk of default for condominium unit owners. This arises from the fact that the common charges paid by the unit owner cover the cost of operating the building."
"Each time a unit owner stops paying common charges," Mr. Saft continued, "the only legal means the board has of collecting the common charges is through a foreclosure procedure, which can take up to five years. And if the apartment is worth less than the mortgage on it, the condominium will never be able to collect the unpaid common charges" -- with all the neighbors footing the bill.
A major strand in the debate revolves around the fact that the co-op form allows current shareholders to determine whether potential buyers are financially viable, not to mention things like whether they have criminal records or are bass drummers. "A year ago," Ms. Corcoran said, "4 percent of our buyers were being turned down by co-op boards; as of the end of last month, 9 percent were being turned down." At the same time, co-op boards typically enact -- and more strictly enforce -- more rules governing behavior in the building.
That can be a two-edged sword.
"On the one hand, it gives greater control to existing residents to determine who their neighbors are, what sort of tone the building has," Professor Schill said. "On the other, some extremely restrictive rules can limit demand for apartments among potential purchasers and, thereby, reduce value."

Financing Regulations
If Barriers Are High, So Are Co-op Prices
 The study did not analyze the premium or discount attributable to the wide variety of possible house rules. But it did examine the considerable effect of financing regulations. Because condo owners do not share the same risk of default on an underlying mortgage, financing restrictions are, for the most part, the purview of co-ops. 
"And what our findings show is that the more restrictive the financing rules are, the greater the value of apartments," Professor Schill said -- a finding strenuously questioned by Ms. Corcoran.
The study first determined that only 1.1 percent of the co-ops in its sample allowed buyers to finance 100 percent of their mortgages, 30.4 percent allowed 80 to 99 percent financing, 45.4 percent allowed 60 to 79 percent financing, 16.1 percent allow 40 to 59 percent financing, 1.3 percent allow 10 to 39 percent financing and 2.1 percent are all-cash -- leaving 3.6 percent undetermined.
Using the 60 to 79 percent financing-allowed category -- the most common -- as the reference point, "we found that for co-ops thatallow 100 percent financing there was a 2.41 percent discount below the value of those co-ops allowing 60 to 79 percent financing," Mr. Miller said. 
Co-ops that allow 80 to 99 percent financing had a 2.71 percent discount from the reference point. Co-ops allowing 40 to 59 percent financing saw a 14.55 percent premium. Those that allow 10 to 39 percent financing had a 22.19 percent premium. "And all-cash co-ops, those that don't allow any financing, had a 47.94 percent premium," Mr. Miller said.
The study goes on to compare various co-op financing restrictions with condominium values, factoring in the fact that almost all condos have no such restrictions. 
"Importantly, the overall 15.5 percent condo premium does not exist with respect to all cooperative apartments," Professor Schill said. "For example, compared to a co-op in a building that allows 100 percent financing, the condominium premium is 20.2 percent, meaning that a condominium apartment in a comparable building is worth a fifth more than the co-op." 
"However, when that same condominium apartment is compared with a co-op that allows no financing at all, the premium disappears and a 20.7 percent discount emerges. This means that apartments in co-op buildings that do not allow any financing are substantially more valuable than comparable condominiums."
That conclusion, Ms. Corcoran said, "jarred me."
"Only the most prestigious buildings have always allowed only a tiny universe of all-cash buyers to come in," Ms. Corcoran continued. "And the reason it works is not because they are demanding all cash but because they happen to be lucky enough to be in the best locations on the Upper East and West Side."
Limited financing in those buildings "hinders their value," she insisted. "The numbers are correct as averages, but the conclusions could lead you down the wrong road. I wouldn't want to encourage buildings to restrict financing thinking they would pick up value, because less financing decreases value because less people can buy them. The more people who can buy something, the more it's worth -- supply and demand." 
Mr. Saft sees the the study as "a self-fulfilling prophecy."
"For years, brokers have been pushing condominiums over co-ops because they don't like being required to resell co-op apartments after a board turndown," he said. "So, even though, in many respects, it is more difficult for the condo board to operate the building, the brokers have been saying for years that there's more value in a condominium than a cooperative."
"And they have said it so often and so loudly that buyers now take it as gospel." 
Professor Schill believes, however, that the co-op is hardly an endangered species in New York. "Even though our results suggest that it would be in most people's economic interest to convert co-ops to condominiums, that's extremely difficult to do because most people in a building would have to agree, the tax consequences are likely to be considerable and everyone would have to get a new mortgage."
"Even though condominiums dominate co-ops nationwide, and even in New York with respect to new construction," Professor Schill said, "it's likely that co-ops are here to stay."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Ioan Voicu, Michael H. Schill and Jonathan Miller, authors of "The Condominium vs. Cooperative Puzzle," covering 99,491 sales. (John Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 4) Chart: "Manhattan Co-ops and Condos by the Numbers" gives average statistics on buildings from a study of transactions dating back to 1985. (pg. 4) Drawings (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CENSUS (50%) HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; COOPERATIVES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; SCHILL, MICHAEL H (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



82 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 2; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2013 words

HEADLINE: LOW COUNTRY CRUISING IN EAST ANGLIA 

BYLINE:  By AURELIA C. SCOTT; AURELIA C. SCOTT writes frequently about travel.

 BODY:
IT'S easy," the young man said, demonstrating the combination throttle and gear shift in our rented 12-foot electric boat. "Forward, reverse, stop." 
 As I settled into the driver's seat for the morning excursion, he added, "Don't trail your ropes or they'll snag." 
 Then, with a grin, "And if the ducks are passing you, you're going too slow."
Last September, my husband, Bob, and I spent two weeks exploring East Anglia, a rural area of eastern England that is home to a 117-square-mile wetland (slightly bigger than the borough of Queens), the Norfolk and Suffolk Broads. We exchanged homes with an English couple, trading our Victorian in Portland, Me., for a white-washed cottage in Hemsby, a village on the edge of the Broads. 
 Part nature preserve, part recreation area, the Broads welcome about a million visitors annually, who fish, bird-watch, bicycle, hike andboat along nearly 125 miles of navigable rivers and shallow lakes, or "broads." The waterways wend through a bucolic landscape of reed beds, windmill water pumps, manicured fields confined by blackberry hedgerows and medieval villages of flint-walled churches and thatched cottages. 
We spent our days walking, boating and exploring villages. That first self-drive expedition on the River Thurne was as easy as promised. 
We rented our craft in Potter Heigham, a village famous for a medieval stone bridge built low over the water. Instead of testing our bridge-avoidance skills, we steered downriver, past brightly painted vacation cottages and boathouses. 
Sailboats and swans glided through the waterside neighborhood; ducks cropped postage-stamp lawns; homeowners waved from deck chairs. 
After several hundred yards, we left the houses behind and entered typical Broads habitat. Six-foot-high marsh grass and reeds blanketed the shore of the 50-foot-wide river. Marsh harriers wheeled overhead. White-beaked black coots rode the swells. 
I counted eight solitary fishermen, each of whom had carved out a space among the reeds. The only sounds were the calls of birds, rustling reeds and the gentle chug of the few slow-moving boats.
This serene, seemingly natural landscape is actually the result of centuries of human intervention. From possibly as early as the ninth century until the 14th, peat quarries were excavated in the treeless marshes beside East Anglia's many rivers. 
The peat heated such grand buildings as Norwich Cathedral, which in 1343 burned 400,000 pounds of Norfolk peat. By the 15th century, however, the water table began to rise and the quarries gradually filled, becoming the Broads.
On that first day on the water, we turned left at the whitewashed Thurne Dyke wind pump. Like most Broads' wind pumps, the one in Thurne village is a beautiful and nonfunctional artifact; plain electric pumps regulate the water levels in the marsh today. 
After mooring our boat more or less proficiently, we walked along Thurne's winding lanes admiring the undulating thatch roofs, each unique to the thatcher. Then with our boating map spread on a table at the Lion Inn, we debated our next destination and ate a hearty plowman's lunch of local bread, cheddar, ham and pickled onions.
While we loved the freedom of steering our boat along the waterways, we also enjoyed two guided tours. 
One day, we boarded a Broads Tours Company double-decker riverboat in bustling Wroxham on the Bure. After reassuring us that the river is only eight feet deep, our captain-cum-tour guide took us downriver past fanciful riverside cottages, including one shaped like a windmill and another like a beehive.
Throughout the 90-minute tour, the captain regaled us with an entertaining mix of history and personal reminiscences. We learned, for example, that older cottages are built on 90-foot alder wood stilts sunk into the marsh, while newer ones are built on steel. 
We learned also that the Broads' distinctive wide-hull, gaff-rigged sailing vessels known as wherries can navigate fully loaded in three feet of water. And we learned why most of the Broads' pubs are located on a bend in the river: 
In the days before engines, when the wind died, the wherries congregated at river bends. "And what better is there for sailors to do when there is no wind," asked our captain rhetorically, "but drink?" 
Another day, we joined a naturalist and another couple on a "wildlife water trail" managed by the How Hill Nature Reserve on the River Ant near Ludham. In a small electric boat, we left the river and glided into the reed bed, following a channel dug 200 years ago by reed cutters. 
Reeds swayed above our heads and brushed the sides of our little boat. We watched ruddy darter dragonflies lay eggs on the strawlike stems and listened to the call of a rare Cetti's warbler. 
The waving reeds are a crop as well as a refuge for rare species. An 18-inch-thick Norfolk reed thatch roof, we were told, can last for 70 years.
Suddenly, we heard a quiet putt-putt and behind us appeared a flat-hulled open boat driven by a ruddy-faced man in a squashy hat. It was Eric, a thatcher, out to cut marsh grass to use as roof capping. 
"Beautiful day for it," he called as he edged past us in the five-foot-wide channel.
That evening, we celebrated another day on the water with dinner at the Fisherman's Return in Winterton-on-Sea. In a 300-year-old flint and brick building, this pub offers exceptional meals in a cozy dining room warmed by a small fireplace and a large, dark-paneled bar room with a dart board. 
I tried a fizzy hard cider that came with a "careful, it's strong" warning from the smiling bartender (it was), while Bob sipped a Norfolk Wherry Bitter. Then we settled into a table near the fireplace for thick slices of hot, locally smoked salmon followed by fresh grilled lemon sole, tiny new potatoes and caramel apple tart.
We had intended to do as much walking as boating in the Broads. Paths are marked on local maps and identified with roadside signs. Yet we discovered that river walks often confined us between towering stands of reeds with no view of the water. 
And one meadow looked much like another as we trudged across it. So we shifted our focus to visiting nature preserves and ambling through villages. 
Typically, we would see a hand-made sign picturing the main historic occupation of a village (fishing boats, farmers, reed cutters), a village green, pub, church, grocer and tidy flower-bedecked homes. We found that grocers give directions, churches welcome visitors, local people love to discuss their gardens, and pubs offer well-prepared local specialties.
We combined village and nature walks one day in tiny Ranworth on the Bure River. Our first stop was St. Helen's Church -- to see the view from its bell tower and to admire its prize possession, the most complete 15th-century rood screen in England. Painted in faded blues, greens, yellows and reds the carved dark wooden screen depicts then-popular saints and the apostles, all looking, to my modern eyes, pale, hopeful and hungry.
Bob's poor eyesight made it unwise for him to climb the bell tower, so I set off alone. As I climbed up the narrow tower's steep, uneven stone steps, it was easy to imagine that the year was 1402, not 2002. 
I paused to breathe when I reached the wooden platform beside the bells, then climbed two iron ladders to the roof. Our informants had been right -- the view of church spires, white sails and blue ribbons of water threading through green fields was worth the quaking in my legs.
I rejoined my husband on the Norfolk Wildlife Trust's boardwalk nature trail, which guides visitors through all the Broads' habitats -- open water, reed bed, fen and alder woodland. The trail -- less than a mile -- leads to a visitor center in a thatched wooden building set on pontoons in Ranworth Broad. There, we collected a stack of postcards and toured an informative display about the Broads' ecology, economics, and social history. 
Just upriver from Ranworth is Horning, a village whose traditional prettiness made it one of my favorites. Its long main street beside the boat-filled Bure is lined with thatched cottages abloom with window boxes, local shops rather than tourist traps, pubs and several 19th-century hotels. 
On the day we visited, we ate a vegetable curry and local sausages and mash at the New Inn, a half-timbered pub with a beamed ceiling, and watched a heron stalk across a waterside lawn. 
To visit villages that weren't on a river, we drove narrow country lanes -- for instance, from tiny Sea Palling on the coast, south past the vast red Horsey wind pump, to stately Martham, whose Georgian houses range along its village green. 
By the end of our visit we were already waxing nostalgic about the call of gray lag geese, the whisper of reeds and the sight of a thick thatch roof curving above a window like an embrace.

Boating through the reeds, past swans and fishermen

Getting There
 East Anglia is a drive of around three and a half hours from London. We took the M11 to the A11 toward Norwich. From Norwich, the A47 leads to the Broads.
 Several airlines fly to Norwich International Airport from Manchester, Edinburgh and Amsterdam, but none from London. 
 But there is fast train service from Liverpool Street Station in London to Norwich, taking 1 hour 40 minutes.

Boating and Walking
 A comprehensive guide to activities, restaurants and accommodations in the Broads can be found at www.norfolkbroads.com.
 The Broads Authority, 18 Colegate, Norwich NR3 IBQ, (44-1603) 610-734, publishes excellent maps and guides to the area. Its Web site, www.broadsauthority.gov.uk, also provides a helpful introduction to the area. 
 Another source of information is the Norfolk Wildlife Trust, which manages several nature preserves in the Broads. Contact it at Bewick House, 22 Thorpe Road, Norwich, Norfolk, NR1 1RY; (44-1603) 625-540, fax (44-1603) 598-300; www.wildlifetrust.org.uk/norfolk.
 Broads Tours, a boat company consortium, offers guided tours and boat rentals by the hour, day or week, with rates starting at $16 an hour, $83 a day and $830 a week, at the rate of $1.60 to the pound. It has offices in Wroxham, Potter Heigham and Horning. For more information, call (44-1603) 782-207 or see www.broads.co.uk.

Where to Stay
 As house exchangers, we had our own home in Hemsby. But the Norwich Area Tourism Agency, Guild Hall, Gaol Hill, Norwich, NR2 1NF; (44-1603) 662-661, fax (44-1603) 666-687, www.visitnorwich-area.co.uk, lists many accommodations in its guide to the Broads.
An option is staying on the water. Norfolk Broads Direct, a subsidiary of Broads Tours, (44-1603) 782-207 and www.broads.co.uk, rents fully outfitted houseboats for three to seven nights. Prices range from about $500 to $1,500 depending on size of the boat and time of the year. 
 We toured several bed and breakfasts in the Broads:
 The Old Station House Bed and Breakfast, North Road, Hemsby, Great Yarmouth, Norfolk NR29 4EZ, (44-1493) 732-022, has three beautifully appointed, sparkling queen bedrooms. They share a bathroom, but each has a sink and they are being converted to private baths. The rate, $60 a room, includes a full breakfast. 
 The Swan Inn, Lower Street, Horning, Near Wroxham, Norfolk, NR12 8AA, (44-1692) 630-316, fax (44-1692) 630-821, is a historic inn on the River Bure. The 11 pleasant, modern rooms with private baths go for $95 to $105, with breakfast. 

Where to Eat
 The Fisherman's Return, the Lane, Winterton-on-Sea, Norfolk, (44-1493) 393-305 and www.fishermans-return.com, serves lunch and dinner daily. Dishes include grilled sole, battered cod, lamb shank in ginger, and fresh local crab. Dinner for two with wine runs about $50.
 The New Inn, Lower Street, Horning, Norfolk, (44-1692) 631-223 is open for lunch and dinner daily. Dishes include vegetable curry, Cromer crab, steak and ale pie, lamb shank in tomato. Dinner for two with ale, about $40.
 The Lion Inn, the Street, Thurne, Norfolk, (44-16692) 670-796, offers lunch and dinner daily. Choices include lamb balti, cumberland sausages and mash, grilled bream, six types of curry. Dinner for two with ale, about $40. AURELIA C. SCOTT

GRAPHIC: Photos: The newly restored, but nonfunctioning, wind pump at Thurne. Electric pumps now regulate the water levels in the Broads.; A double-decker river boat on the Bure at Horning. The Lion Inn at Thurne, a place for a hearty plowman's lunch. (Photographs by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. 10); The River Bure is bucolic, even in bustling Wroxham.; The 15th-century rood screen, St. Helen's, Ranworth. (Photographs for The New York Times by Jonathan Player)(pg. 12) Map of England highlighting Norfolk Broads.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); HIKING (77%); BIRDING (76%); BIRDS (76%); WETLANDS (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); RELIGION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (56%) MAINE, USA (56%) ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



83 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: SHEDDING POUNDS IN LEAN TIMES 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN CATTO; SUSAN CATTO contributes to The Times from Toronto.

 BODY:
 THE downturn in international tourism has led to exceptional deals on flights to Britain and accommodations there. "The industry is pulling together to really try to give British tourism the push that it needs right now," said Sarah Long of VisitBritain, formerly known as the British Tourist Authority. 
 Flight offers change so often and expire so rapidly that the best fares can usually be found on airlines' Web sites or on sites like Travelocity.com or Expedia.com. Last month, some flights between New York and London were going for less than $300 round trip. Prices rise as high season approaches, but there are plenty of deals this month and next. And even July and August -- high season -- still hold some bargains.

Packages
Some of the best offers combine flight and accommodation. All package prices described below are per person, based on double occupancy, and are subject to tax and security fees of approximately $105 a passenger. Prices are for departures from New York gateways (Kennedy or Newark Liberty).
Virgin Vacations, the package-tour branch of Virgin Atlantic, offers London packages with flights, hotel, Continental breakfast, city guides and coupons. The Budget Spring Fling package, for departures up to May 30, includes round-trip flights on United or Air-India plus six nights in a hotel. With 15 properties to choose from, prices start at $399 at the budget Royal Sussex Hotel in Paddington and rise to $899 for the Howard, a luxury Swissotel property in the West End. The Virgin Spring Fling -- the same trip, but with flights on Virgin Atlantic -- costs an extra $70 to $100. (Travel from Washington or Boston is $40 over that; other departure cities are also available.) Tickets must be purchased by May 20. For travel in June, similar packages start at $559 for departures through June 15, and at $789 for travel from June 16 to 30. 
The Virgin's/Harrods Fling, available for departures June 30 to July 12, takes advantage of the famous summer sale at the Harrods department store in London. With six hotels to choose from, packages include six nights' accommodation, breakfasts and a $:25 Harrods gift certificate (about $40). Prices start at $979 at the tourist-class Thistle Kensington Palace and rise to $1,179 at the luxury Montcalm Nikko Hotel in Marble Arch. 
All packages require a 10-day advance purchase. Weekend flights are $25 extra and bookings made less than three weeks in advance are subject to a $30 ticket courier fee per set of tickets. (The standard courier fee is $10). Information: (888) 937-8474 or www.virginvacations.com. 
British Airways Vacations air-inclusive package, on sale until May 16, offers flight and three nights at three- to four-star London hotels. Packages cost $423 and up for departures up to June 30, and rise to $562 in July. Book soon to get the best hotel: the price is the same whether you stay in the four-star Gresham Hyde Park in Lancaster Gate or the three-star Kensington Close Hotel, for example. Prices vary for additional nights. Weekend surcharges for flights from Thursday to Saturday are $15 either way; (877) 428-2228 or www.britishairways.com/londongetaway. 
Summer deals are still being developed, but the spring offer at American Airlines Vacations, valid for departures up to June 15, includes an economy-class flight, three-night hotel stay and breakfast package with a bonus of 2,000 AAdvantage frequent-flier miles. The lowest rate, $399, features the Thistle Euston, a recently refurbished hotel between Regent's Park and the new British Library. A more luxurious option, Le Meridien Grosvenor House on Park Lane, costs $575. If booking additional nights, the sixth night is free; (800) 321-2121 or www.aavacations.com. 
At United Vacations, the leisure-travel branch of United Airlines, the standard package includes round-trip air fare and four nights' accommodation, with breakfast and hotel taxes, a guidebook, discount card and 1,000 frequent-flier miles if you book on the Web. Passengers must depart by June 15. A six-night stay starts at $684 at the well-situated Thistle Kensington Garden in Bayswater, rising to $1,199 for the Raffles Brown's Hotel. For shorter trips, the flight plus four nights at the budget Comfort Inn Kensington costs $559; with accommodation at the Art Deco Strand Palace in the theater district, the package costs $769. 
In July and August, United Airlines' packages to Britain include a fourth or fifth night free at selected hotels. Prices begin at $874 for the small, three-star Craven Gardens Hotel near Hyde Park; (800) 328-6877 or www.unitedvactions.com.

London Hotels
The latest hotel bargains in London and the rest of Britain can be found online at such sites as www.lastminute.com. 
In London, the Savoy Group is offering a special rate at all its luxury hotels, subject to availability (it could run through Labor Day weekend), of $234 (at $1.57 to the pound) for a single room and $281 and up for a double, without V.A.T. or breakfast. Normal rates start at around $455 single, $502 double. The Savoy Group includes the Savoy on the Strand, (44-20) 7950 5492; the Berkeley in Knightsbridge, (44-20) 7950 5490; and the Connaught, (44-20) 7950 5493, and Claridge's in Mayfair, (44-20) 7950 5491. Information: www. savoy-group.co.uk. 
Also on the high end, the Dorchester Hotel, overlooking Hyde Park, has a three-night weekend special for $1,429 double (50 percent off regular rates) until Dec. 31, including V.A.T. and breakfast, as well as a choice of dinner for two or transfers to Heathrow Airport or theater tickets; (44-20) 7629 8888 or www.dorchesterhotel.com.
At the Milestone Hotel and Apartments in the Kensington section of London, a three-night weekend costs $1,225 for a family of four, plus 17.5 percent V.A.T. The Weekend With the Kids includes breakfast, butler service to unpack luggage, a gift basket of bubble bath, toys, books and films, a bus tour, $:50 (about $80) in vouchers for the Hamleys toy shop, tickets to a musical, a family photo album and midnight milk and cookies; (44-20) 7958 7727 or on the Web at www.milestonehotel.com.

Walking Tours
A number of walking-tour companies have reduced rates. Until July 1, Explore Britain, (44-17) 4065 0900, on the Web at www.xplorebritain.com, has a seven-night self-guided walking tour along the Cornish coast for $678 a person, double occupancy, a discount from the regular price of $835. The package includes seven nights' accommodation in country hotels, inns and guesthouses and daily breakfast and V.A.T.
Discounts at HF Holidays, (44-20) 8905 9558, www.hfholidays.co.uk, include two all-inclusive seven-night walking packages in the Scottish Highlands. The Glen Coe journey, departing on July 12, is reduced from $697 to $631, single or double occupancy, and the Pitlochry trip departing Sept. 27 is $601 instead of $658. 
English Lakeland Ramblers of New York is discounting its walking vacations in England and Scotland by $250 for solo travelers and $600 for couples. Before the discount, packages including meals, accommodation and guides start at $2,180 for a seven-day walking trip in the Lake District, and rise to $2,540 for a new eight-day journey through the Hebrides in Scotland. Information: (800) 724-8801 or www.ramblers.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); RETAILERS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); EXPEDIA INC (57%); TRAVELOCITY.COM INC (57%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (57%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



84 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1050 words

PERSON: Douglas R. Carmichael 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Eager to Be the Auditors' Auditor

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
BY his own admission, and yet by accident, Douglas R. Carmichael has been preparing for decades for his new job as the first chief auditor for the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the recently created regulator of the accounting industry.
 Mr. Carmichael, 61, has taught auditing and accounting at Baruch College at the City University of New York for 20 years, and was on several people's short lists of candidates for the job. It is easy to see why: he has written widely used books on auditing and helped draft auditing standards in the 1970's and 80's. 
 He has also testified before federal regulators on rules that should govern accountants and before judges hearing cases involving complex accounting questions or ethical issues, expressing his opinions on what auditors should and should not have done. Those appearances have not endeared him to accounting firms, which have often been the defendants in such lawsuits.
"The litigation work has given me a real opportunity to know what is going on out in practice and to have a more realistic perspective," Mr. Carmichael said in an interview last week. He then uses that perspective in teaching students, many of whom will become auditors, he added.
Mr. Carmichael, who speaks slowly and gives the impression that he has carefully considered every word, was drawn to auditing the way other college students might be drawn to philosophy or even poetry.
"It brought together so many different elements in addition to accounting," said Mr. Carmichael, who received an economics degree in 1963 from the University of Illinois and a doctorate in accounting there in 1968. "It included ethics and legal liability and the use of technical tools like statistical sampling."
That holistic approach to auditing makes Mr. Carmichael a very persuasive expert, said Brian J. Gallagher, a lawyer at Kronish Lieb Weiner & Hellman in New York. "He understands, more significantly, the logic behind it all, what the standards are supposed to do, how these standards are supposed to work," said Mr. Gallagher, who has worked with him as an expert witness. "He defines that job, the one he has now."
Several accountants and lawyers who have worked with Mr. Carmichael or faced him as a hostile witness were reluctant to comment on his new position out of concern that any criticism might lead to unwelcome attention from the accounting oversight board. Some said privately that they feared he would endorse auditing standards that would be too restrictive, setting the bar unrealistically high for what accountants are expected to review and discover.
Others said they thought he would take a more moderate position as a regulator than he has in lawsuits.
After receiving his doctorate, Mr. Carmichael taught at the University of Texas in Austin. The American Institute of CertifiedPublic Accountants hired him in 1969, and he spent the bulk of the next 14 years researching and writing auditing standards, the rules and procedures that auditors are to follow when reviewing companies' financial results.
"We've got over 900 pages of well-developed standards," said Dan M. Guy, a certified public accountant and a litigation consultant in Santa Fe, N.M. Mr. Guy both worked with Mr. Carmichael and succeeded him at the institute. "Doug and I made a big contribution," Mr. Guy said.
Mr. Guy remembered calling Mr. Carmichael for help in resolving difficult issues even after Mr. Carmichael left the institute in 1983 for Baruch College. After that move, Mr. Carmichael began testifying in lawsuits as an accounting and auditing expert. His work for plaintiffs and, occasionally, for defendants began almost by accident, Mr. Carmichael said. 
But he said he testified only when confident of the facts. He described a case in which a lawyer asked for his help in defending an accounting firm that had been sued after failing to detect a fraud. Mr. Carmichael agreed initially, then learned that when the auditor had sought to confirm that the company's customers were legitimate, he had failed to notice that many of the customers' addresses were post office boxes.
"That was a clear warning sign that something was going on," he said. He did not testify.
And Mr. Carmichael does not condone subpar work, several colleagues said. He is demanding of his students and of himself, said Martin Benis, an accounting professor at Baruch, who hired him from the accounting institute.
"Not only is he not tolerant of substandard work, he does not tolerate fools easily," Mr. Benis said. "He has tremendous pride in the auditing profession, and he believes, I think, that the auditing profession has suffered a couple of black eyes because of substandard work."
Several lawyers said Mr. Carmichael's impatience with sloppy work, along with his willingness to give his opinion in no uncertain terms, make him a very good witness for whichever side he is on -- and make him trouble for opponents. He does not yield in his views, they said.
"The first time I ran into him, he was on the other side," said Gregory Markel, head of the litigation department at Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft, a law firm in New York, who found him to be an "extremely capable technical accountant, a highly articulate, strong-minded fellow."
"And I decided the next time I wanted him on my side," he added. 
Mr. Markel was representing an accounting firm that was being sued for not finding fraud at a company it audited; Mr. Carmichael was an expert witness for the plaintiff. "I've questioned a lot of expert witnesses in my day, including a fair number of accountants," Mr. Markel said, "and he was about as tough as I've seen."
Mr. Carmichael said he would continue as an expert witness in just a few lawsuits -- with board approval -- and withdraw from the rest.
Mr. Carmichael lives with his wife, Carol Schaller, the author of several books on computer auditing, on a farm in Lumberville, Pa., north of Philadelphia. He commuted to teach at Baruch, he said, but will now be on leave from the college. He plans to keep an apartment in Washington.
The new job may not endear him any further to accounting firms, Mr. Guy said, but he added that after serving as an expert witness against some firms, Mr. Carmichael was already accustomed to their hostility.
"It's not where you win friends," Mr. Guy said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas R. Carmichael at Baruch College, where he has been teaching. He is chief auditor for the accounting industry's new regulatory body. (Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (94%); AUDITS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ETHICS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); LITIGATION (88%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TESTIMONY (74%); EXPERT WITNESSES (74%); LAWYERS (74%); POETRY (70%); JUDGES (69%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: COOLEY LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC COMPANY ACCOUNTING OVERSIGHT BOARD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

CARMICHAEL, DOUGLAS R (PROF); GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



85 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Coaching Unemployable to Be Reliable

BYLINE:  By Anthony DePalma 

 BODY:
SOME people let work define their lives. Not Israel Torres. For a long time he let his life define his work, and both were calamities. 
 For much of the last two decades, Mr. Torres, now 43, was on drugs. Crack, cocaine, you name it. They were his life, and his work. Dealing drugs was easy money, but it meant doing hard time, lots of it. Five years in one prison, three in another. When he got out, his former life came back like a stain in an old table. Another five years behind bars. 
 But the last time he was released, things changed. When his welfare benefits ran out, he was sent to a community group in the Bronx that promised to teach him not only how to find a job but also how to keep it. 
As politicians cut welfare rolls, they sometimes seem to forget that lives shattered by poverty, drug addiction or other problems may have lost the rudiments of work. Getting a job is hard. Sticking with it is harder.
Mr. Torres admits he had never held a real job, and didn't know what it meant to work responsibly. But last year, after a two-week boot camp that drilled him in fundamental work concepts like reliability and responsibility, he started on the production line at the A. L. Bazzini Company, an old New York nuts and dried fruits firm that moved to Hunts Point a few years ago. You can smell the roasting peanuts a mile away. 
Early this year, Mr. Torres got his first W-2 and he rejoiced. He now has money in his pockets, a regular job and a steady life. It feels good, he said, really good. 
"How're you doing?" a visitor asked Mr. Torres as he stirred a huge vat of cashews on the Bazzini production line. His one-word answer said it all: "Perfect." 
Mr. Torres is where he is now in large measure because of the Bazzini company's willingness to take risks and because of an employment program that combines job training with job custodianship in a new and effective way. 
"We're basically door-openers for people with multiple barriers to employment," said Mary Sprague, director of Managed Work Services, a program run by VIP Community Services, a nonprofit group in the Bronx. 
The concept is simple. Employers with low-skill jobs to fill are recruited. Sultana Distribution Corporation in the Bronx and Kruysman Inc., an envelope company in Queens, have also participated. So has the Bronx Zoo. The employers contract with Managed Work Services to fill fairly interchangeable positions. The company pays the program, which pays the workers.
Recruits go through two weeks of basic training, learning essentials like being on time and dressing properly for work. Counselors make sure they have sturdy shoes and wristwatches, and can read a bus schedule. 
When employees show up for work at the plant they are accompanied by a job coach paid by the program who oversees their break-in period. Like a production-line guardian angel, the coach helps take care of arranging doctors' appointments and baby sitters, the kinds of little issues that, if not handled properly, can cost workers their jobs. In a pinch, the coaches can replace workers on the line.
After six months of supervision, the workers can move to permanent jobs, which the program helps find. Just over 220 people have entered the program since it began last year. Of those, 121 did not complete the six-month transition period because one of those little life issues got in the way. An additional 45 are in the program and about 54 who completed the transition period have gotten permanent jobs, 10 of them at Bazzini. 
Rocco Damato, chief executive of Bazzini, said that besides getting highly motivated workers, he also qualifies for tax credits for hiring local people. 
Mr. Damato is participating in the program again and now has nine more transitional workers, including Theresa Berry, 45. She was on welfare pretty much since she was 18, addicted to drugs and unable even to consider taking a job. About a month ago, after her welfare benefits expired, Managed Work Services sent her to Bazzini. 
"I never thought I could make a month, but I did," Ms. Berry said proudly. She puts labels on boxes and stacks them on pallets. She makes $7 an hour, and for the first time in years she is making plans.
"I'm going to get me a new apartment, and then I'm going to buy things for my three godchildren," she said. More important is what holding down a job after so long says about her. 
"It shows," she said, "I can do something outside of just doing drugs." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Israel Torres, a former addict with a prison record, is holding down a steady job thanks to a boot camp in basic work skills. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); COCAINE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); STATIONERY PRODUCT MFG (65%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (65%) LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: A L BAZZINI CO INC (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2068 SALTED & ROASTED NUTS & SEEDS (67%)

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



86 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS; 
Looking at Dollars and Cents of Widowhood

BYLINE:  By DIANE COLE 

 BODY:
IT'S not a pleasant truth. But for women, planning for retirement should generally include planning for possible widowhood, given the nearly six-year gap in life expectancy between the sexes. In fact, in the 2000 census, almost one-third of women between the ages of 65 and 74 described themselves as widowed. For women above 75, the figure was 61 percent.
 Moreover, on average, a woman earns just 76 cents for every dollar a man earns. That adds up to an estimated lifetime difference of more than $300,000, according to the Women's Institute for a Secure Retirement, a nonprofit organization, known as Wiser, that was founded by the Heinz Family Foundation. That means both less potential for an independent nest egg and a greater likelihood of lower Social Security benefit payments in retirement. 
 In addition, as many Americans worry about the path of the economy -- not to mention the effects of war and terrorism -- financial planners are reporting an increase in inquiries from men and women about how to prepare for the unexpected. 
Planning, of course, does not ease the pain of loss, but it can reduce financial anxieties. Sandra Barty of Center Lovell, Me., found herself without retirement savings when her husband, Dick, died in 1999.In fact, at the age of 57, "I didn't know where the money would come from that I needed to pay my living expenses, month to month," she said.
The couple were hardly poor. But upon her husband's death, income from his consulting business ended, and there were no insurance policies or other apparent sources of income.
"I was in shock," said Ms. Barty, 61, who has since become an educational consultant "I was grieving. I felt detached from the consequences of daily living. But the reality was, I also needed money to pay the bills."
The most direct way for women to build financial security is to set up and contribute to their own retirement accounts, said Ginita Wall, a certified financial planner in San Diego and the author of personal finance books.
More broadly, experts advise women to take a more active role in family financial matters. "A man is not a plan," Ms. Wall said.
"Too many women say, 'Oh, he's so good with money!' " Ms. Wall added. "But you need to know the basics, at the very least, because if he dies, you will be the one carrying things forward."
Women who are not involved in managing the family finances run the risk of finding out too late that their spouses were not nearly so good with money as they believed.
Nonetheless, financial planners report that many couples still play traditional roles, with men managing the family finances. "With careers, children and households to juggle, even highly skilled professionals are happy not to have one more thing on our plates," said Cindy Hounsell, the executive director of Wiser. But, she warned, these women may save time in the short run without realizing the long-term consequences.
In contrast, Janet Hays, now 73 and living in New York, used to sit down with her husband, David, every New Year's Day to plan their budget and investment decisions for the year. They used the software Quicken to keep track of their expenditures and to make sure they remained on target with their budget.
That financial teamwork prepared Ms. Hays, the author of "Retire in New York City -- Even if You're Not Rich" (Bonus Books), to handle her finances after her husband died in 1995, when both were 66. "There was a sense of partnership with finances throughout my marriage," she said, "and that provided the foundation afterward, as well."
Planning, of course, does not mean only saving. Financial counselors say couples should also consider estate planning to be sure their assets are distributed as they wish with as few tax consequences as possible.
Before having a will prepared, couples should double-check the names of beneficiaries who are listed on all legal and financial documents, including trusts.
"Most people don't realize that where I.R.A.'s, 401(k)'s, other retirement instruments and property are concerned, your will is not necessarily the last word," said Aytan Y. Bellin, a lawyer in New York who specializes in elder law, trusts and estates and disability law. "Even if you have cut a person out of your will, if he or she is the designated beneficiary on those other deeds or accounts, they are the ones who will inherit that property."
Widows who plan to remarry may want to consider a prenuptial agreement.
"Working out the prenup agreement was emotionally difficult because I found it very disturbing to think through every awful possibility to prevent against," said Jane Lattes-Swislocki, who lives in Rockland County, N.Y. Her first husband died in 1987, and she remarried four years later.
Her primary purpose in writing a prenuptial agreement, she said, was to protect the financial interests of her children, who were still young. Nine years into the second marriage, with her own four children and her husband's two children from his first marriage more on their own, the couple drafted what she calls a "midnuptial" agreement. It takes into account not only the children's interests but also the property the couple have bought jointly.
WHENEVER you have legal documents written or revised, make sure you understand the ramifications of every legal provision, said Ms. Wall, the planner in San Diego. She recalled a widow whose husband had transferred all his real estate assets into a trust with the intention that should he die, his widow would receive the rental income until her death; the property would then be left to his children from his first marriage.
"But that's not what happened," Ms. Wall said. Because the trust's wording was ambiguous, the widow received only a small part of the income. The rest went to trust funds designated for her husband's children.
Perhaps the most basic issue is deciding whose advice is best. After her husband's death, Ms. Barty received well-meaning advice from relatives and friends, and she "inherited" a lawyer and broker from her husband. But she found that none of these people could provide the comprehensive planning she wanted.
In such cases, "look at the advisers you and your husband had, and if you're not satisfied, then find someone else," said Alexandra Armstrong, chairwoman at Armstrong, MacIntyre & Severns, a financial planning firm in Washington. Better yet, she said, couples should find advisers with whom they are comfortable while they are still together, and with whom either spouse could work if the other dies.
Ultimately, Ms. Barty sought out a financial planner, Janet Press, based in Tarrytown, N.Y. Ms. Press helped her see that she had a source of income after all: she could rent out her husband's country house, which she had inherited, and earn enough money to pay her own housing expenses. Ms. Press also encouraged her to pursue ways to use her graduate training asa teacher and consultant to earn a living.
But when it comes to financial preparedness, the sooner the better. "As you plan for retirement, from the start be a partner with your husband," Ms. Press advised. "Make sure you share the same goals, and that you both understand the consequences of your decisions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janet Hays 73, on a cross-country skiing trip in February. She said she was prepared for handling her finances after her husband died in 1995. (David Jennings for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); WOMEN (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CENSUS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); INSURANCE POLICIES (68%); TERRORISM (67%); WRITERS (60%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; WOMEN 

PERSON: COLE, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



87 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2376 words

HEADLINE: A New Technology, Now That New Is Old 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
MARTIN PICHINSON is one of Silicon Valley's undertakers. His company, Sherwood Partners, has carved out a prosperous niche as an expert in shutting down failed technology start-ups on behalf of venture capital firms and other disenchanted investors. And, this summer, he plans to move his company's headquarters to Palo Alto, Calif., the heartland of opportunity for his rapidly growing business.
 Mr. Pichinson, 57, does not always bury companies. Some can be rehabilitated or sold off. But Sherwood Partners has shut down 150 once-aspiring start-ups in the last two years, and Mr. Pichinson figures that thousands more are destined to fold. His company stands ready to help things along. 
 "We're doctors of reality," said Mr. Pichinson, who began his business career in the garment industry. "You don't have to have a Harvard M.B.A. to know that more money has to come in than go out." 
The winnowing of the corporate population is just one sign that the information technology industry is maturing in ways that will affect technology companies, their customers and investors for years to come. But what's painful for Silicon Valley is beneficial for those who use the stuff it produces.
The industry, according to Irving Wladawsky-Berger, a strategy executive at I.B.M., has entered "the post-technology era." It is not that technology itself no longer matters, he explained. Instead, he said, the steady advances in chips, disk storage and software mean that the focus is no longer on the technology itself -- with its arcane language of processing speeds and gigabytes -- but on what people and companies can do with it.
As a result, industry executives and analysts say, the balance of power is shifting away from technology suppliers and toward their corporate customers. At the same time, the use of lower-cost building blocks of computer hardware and software is spreading, making it easier for companies and individuals to share data and work together using industry standards rather than remain dependent on one or two main suppliers.
These trends, they say, point to increased pressure on prices and profits for most technology companies, a good deal for corporate customers and a very tricky time for investors.
This is more than a backlash against the bubble years, or a mere pendulum swing in attitudes and practices. The technology itself will still deliver waves of innovation in the future. Yet an industry that has risen to account for 10 percent of the economy and nearly 60 percent of business capital spending can no longer play by its own rules.
"I don't see a loss of faith in technology, but gravity has been turned back on," said Dick Lampman, the director of Hewlett-Packard's research laboratories. 
Yet an article published last week in The Harvard Business Review does question corporate America's faith in the value of technology. Titled "IT Doesn't Matter," the article argues that information technology is inevitably headed in the same direction as the railroads, the telegraph, electricity and the internal combustion engine.
All of these industrial technologies aged from their boom-time youth to become, in economic terms, ordinary factors of production, or "commodity inputs," the article noted. "From a strategic standpoint, they became invisible; they no longer mattered," wrote Nicholas G. Carr, editor at large of The Harvard Business Review. "That is exactly what is happening to information technology today."
Most corporate executives, however, still think there is a lot they can do with technology to give them an edge. Glen Salow, the chief information officer of the American Express Company, sees the recent trends in the industry as working to his advantage. First, he said, the hard times in the technology business have increasingly meant that big corporate customers hold the upper hand in their dealings with suppliers. That shift, Mr. Salow added, has given him not only more bargaining power on price, but also more influence in the products and services that are developed.
Corporate customers want to use technology to achieve goals like cutting costs, improving customer service and speeding the pace of bringing new products to market. But in the past, the computer industry has often treated customers with a certain arrogance, selling raw technology, take it or leave it.
MR. SALOW recalled a conversation he had in the late 1990's with the chief executive of a major computer company, whom he declined to identify. As Mr. Salow recalled, the computer executive told him, "My job is to make the hottest box on earth and deliver it on your loading dock."
"You don't hear that kind of talk anymore from him or anyone else," he said. "There has been a huge change from that perspective. The voice of the customer is being heard."
Corporate customers are insisting that technology companies adopt industry-standard software formats and communications protocols, so that the many different kinds of computer systems in corporate data centers can work together. In doing so, the companies are encouraging a technology trend that was really kicked off by the Internet, with its global reach that connects all sorts of technologies. For the Internet to work, the computer plumbing had to cooperate. And hardware and software standards make it more difficult for technology companies to "lock in" customers to their more expensive, homegrown technology offerings.
With their new power, customers are also pressing for greater flexibility in how they buy computing resources -- especially as a utility-style service in which they pay only for as much as they use, as if they were buying electricity. Mr. Salow signed a utility pricing and outsourcing deal with I.B.M. last year, in which 1,500 technology workers were transferred to I.B.M. The arrangement, he explained, reduces fixed technology expenses, giving American Express more flexibility. 
The widespread use of software standards, Mr. Salow added, enables the thousands of internal programmers at American Express to build new applications almost as if snapping together Lego blocks, reducing the amount of code that has to be written by hand. A result, he said, is that the software for, say, a new credit card offering or a fraud-detection feature can be built and put into use in about two weeks; five years ago, this might have taken six months. 
"It all frees you up to take more gambles because each risk is not so costly and you can move a lot faster," Mr. Salow said.
Several big companies besides I.B.M. -- including Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, Microsoft, Oracle and Veritas -- are moving to utility computing. But Salesforce.com was founded in 1999 specifically to capitalize on the trend. It sells sales-force automation software over the Internet; users with a standard Web browser get access to it for a monthly fee.
Marc R. Benioff, the founder and chief executive of Salesforce.com, regards his company as a force for change in an industry that he says is still mired in the "preutility era." In the future, Mr. Benioff said, "the risk and complexity of computing should shift to the utility."
Mr. Benioff's message and his low-cost, no-frills offering have gone over well at a time when companies are squeezing technology budgets.
Salesforce.com expects its revenue to about double this year, to $100 million. The company has started with sales-force automation, a software market where Siebel Systems is the leader.
Yet Mr. Benioff has ambitious plans to move into other big software markets where companies like SAP, PeopleSoft and others sell software for managing manufacturing, planning, human resources and other operations for large corporations. These big, complex "enterprise" software systems can cost millions of dollars and take several months or years to install and use.
"I think there is going to be a huge democratization of these enterprise technologies because of this on-demand computing enabled by the Internet," Mr. Benioff said. "Our evangelical mission is to destroy enterprise software as it exists today."
THE push toward utility computing, according to Mr. Wladawsky-Berger of I.B.M., fits neatly into his concept of a post-technology era. "In the last few years," he said, "the underlying components have become so powerful, reliable and inexpensive that you don't have to worry so much about the underlying engine, and you can move up to higher-level concerns." 
I.B.M. has moved more and more toward becoming a provider not only of technology, but also of business expertise in 17 industries from banking to electronics and transportation. Its $3.5 billion purchase of PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting last year was a step toward that goal.
Mr. Wladawsky-Berger is in charge of guiding that strategy, which I.B.M. is promoting as "on-demand computing." The on-demand concept represents a maturing of computing in a sense, he said, but more as "the next evolutionary step in information technology, where the fun really begins" rather than an aging industry in decline.
Each successive wave of computing -- from mainframes to minicomputers to personal computers to the Internet -- has opened the door to new users and created new problems. Each of those, in turn, must be addressed if the industry is to move ahead. The Internet brought an explosion of computing complexity. And while many dot-coms are gone, Internet technology has spread widely, becoming a mainstream technology in corporations.
Marc Andreessen, a co-founder of Netscape Communications, whose software introduced Web browsing to millions and touched off the Internet boom, is now chairman of Opsware, whose data-center software is intended to tackle the complexity crisis. "At Netscape, we were building all the software components that made this possible and created the problem, and we didn't grasp the implications," said Mr. Andreessen, who is 31.
I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft and Sun have also begun major efforts to address the complexity problem with automated management tools that can replace people. But analysts say there is also room for innovative start-ups like Opsware.
"At the same time there is this relentless cost-cutting, there is also a lot of excitement about this market for tools to cope with the complexity conundrum, where a boatload of computer science is going to have to move into the corporate mainstream," said Mark Stahlman, an independent industry analyst.
Roger McNamee has been a professional investor in technology companies for more than two decades, starting as an analyst at T. Rowe Price. In 1991, backed by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm, Mr. McNamee became a co-founder of Integral Capital Partners, a so-called crossover fund investing in start-ups as well as fast-growing public companies. Integral Capital thrived in the 1990's. But late in the decade, Mr. McNamee said he and his partners became "really concerned about how wacky the market had become." In the second half of 1999, at the peak of the bubble, Integral returned $1.5 billion to investors in its main fund.
In 1999, Mr. McNamee and three colleagues founded Silver Lake Partners to invest in mature companies. Silver Lake quickly raised $2.3 billion from institutional investors and wealthy individuals, including three of technology's best-known billionaires, Bill Gates, Lawrence J. Ellison and Michael Dell. Silver Lake's strategy is to make longer-term investments, taking a five-year perspective, of $250 million or so in each company. "We're looking mostly for winners in consolidating industries," Mr. McNamee explained. "This is a period of thinning the herd."
And once the downturn is over, Mr. McNamee is skeptical that spending on technology will ever return to its long-term trend, dating back to the 1960's, of increasing at two to three times the growth rate of the economy. So, he said, broad-based technology funds are probably a formula for losing money. "This is absolutely a stock-picker's environment," Mr. McNamee observed. 
For its part, Silver Lake is betting that the corporate winners will include Flextronics, a contract manufacturer of computers, cellphones and other products; Seagate Technology, a disk drive maker; Gartner Inc., the technology research firm; and Ameritrade, the online broker.
One of Silver Lake's investors, Mr. Ellison, the chairman of Oracle, has been one of the most vocal proponents of the view that the technology industry is graying. "Thousands of companies are on life support that just have to die," he said. "Our industry is in the inevitable process of maturing."
Yet Mr. Ellison's concept of a maturing industry is not exactly a listless old age. There will be fewer companies and slower growth, he said, but still plenty of leeway for entrepreneurial creativity. "There will continue to be very cool new computing technologies," Mr. Ellison said.
Unlike so many industrial technologies -- railroads, say, or the telegraph -- the stored-program computer is a general-purpose tool, animated by software, a medium without material constraints. The unrelenting pace of improvement in processing speeds, data storage and miniaturization means the tools are more powerful and smaller; people then figure out things to do with them.
Indeed, innovation continues apace, despite the downturn. Advances are evident in a range of technologies -- wireless, data center automation, speech recognition, intelligent software, telephone service over the Internet, sensors, natural language processing, and on and on. 
Underestimating the potential for computing has proved a common pitfall over the years, from Thomas J. Watson at I.B.M. in 1943 ("I think there is a world market for maybe five computers") Ken Olsen at Digital Equipment in 1977 ("There is no reason anyone would want a computer in their home").
Jim Gray, a computer scientist, has worked in the industry for more than 30 years. For his pioneering research on databases and transaction processing at I.B.M. and elsewhere, he won the 1999 A. M. Turing Award, sometimes called the Nobel of computer science. "I've seen the 'end' at least twice in my career -- only to be surprised by the next wave," said Mr. Gray, who now works for Microsoft. "My guess is that this computer thing has just gotten started."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Irving Wladawsky-Berger, an I.B.M. strategy executive, says his industry is in "the post-technology era." (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Roger McNamee, a professional technology investor, says he seeks "winners in consolidating industries." (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. 13); (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Peak, Plateau or Pause?"Information technology spending reached record levels a few years ago. Some industry analysts say it may never grow as fast as it did in the late '90s. Graph tracks worldwide information technology spending from 1980-2003. (2003 estimated). (Source: IDC)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BONDS (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (64%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INDUSTRY PROFILES; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SHERWOOD PARTNERS 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



88 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER WEST SIDE; 
Pantries Face Bare Shelves And Higher Demand

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
Elisa Baez, a 25-year-old mother of three from the Kingsbridge neighborhood in the Bronx, is neither homeless nor unemployed. Still, she goes to a food pantry on 86th Street and West End Avenue to stretch her paycheck with donated rice and cans of tuna fish. 
 But lately, she has been leaving empty-handed. "They run out of food sometimes," Ms. Baez, a nursing home attendant, said as she left the West Side Campaign Against Hunger last week. "So I have to come back." 
 As one of the city's largest and best-run pantries, the West Side Campaign, located in the basement of the Church of St. Paul and St. Andrew, usually has a surplus. But for the first time in its 25-year history, dozens of people are being turned away each day.
 "You can see through the shelves," Kirstin Swanson, a pantry spokeswoman, said as she surveyed the supermarket-style aisles the other day. 
 Throughout the city, activists say, the anemic economy has driven tens of thousands of working New Yorkers, like Ms. Baez, into food pantries and soup kitchens, and simultaneously shrunk donations to those organizations.
The West Side Campaign, for example, served some 3,000 households in March, nearly 1,000 more than in March 2002. Meanwhile, it is receiving 30 percent less food from the federal government, by far its largest supplier. 
 "That mirrors the pretty dramatic need in food pantries across the city," said Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, which represents 1,018 pantries. "Even the best programs are turning people away, so I can only imagine what the others are doing."
 City officials paint a very different picture. 
 "There is no indication of an upsurge of demand, no request for additional food, and no indication that people are being turned away," said Frank Sobrino, a spokesman for the city's Human Resources Administration. If the West Side Campaign Against Hunger is seeing an increase, he added, "they haven't told us." Nevertheless, other food organizations echo the message of the West Side Campaign. The Food Bank for New York City, which supplies much of the canned food to city pantries, reports a 7 percent decline in its stocks this year. City Harvest, which redistributes bread and other perishables from restaurants, is reducing its deliveries by one million pounds, or about 5 percent. 
 "We're seeing less food throughout the entire food chain," said Julia Erickson, City Harvest's executive director. Because fewer people are eating out, she said, "restaurants have less food to give." 
 The outlook may worsen, advocates warn. The contingency budget proposed by Mayor Bloomberg would eliminate the only city program that supplies food to pantries and soup kitchens. The $7.7 million program provides about eight million meals a year. 
 On her return trip last week, Ms. Baez was able to fill two large bags with powdered mashed potatoes, rice and canned fruit. She began coming to the pantry last winter, she said, because money had become tight. 
 "I used to be full-time, but now I'm only part-time," she said. "Everyone is making less money." DENNY LEE

GRAPHIC: Photo: The West Side Campaign Against Hunger sometimes turns people away. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (92%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); DINING OUT TRENDS (65%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); HUMAN RESOURCES (50%) FOOD; SOUP KITCHENS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD BANK FOR NEW YORK CITY (59%) FOOD BANK FOR NEW YORK CITY; WEST SIDE CAMPAIGN AGAINST HUNGER (ORGN) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) LEE, DENNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



89 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK OBSERVED; 
A Virus of Fear

BYLINE:  By MARC SIEGEL; Marc Siegel is an internist and an associate professor of medicine at New York University Medical School.

 BODY:
THE small waiting room in my office near New York University Medical Center is just as congested as the rest of New York, with patients sitting practically on top of one another. As with the subway, it feels as if germs here might spread more quickly than other places, and I half expect my patients to catch the bug their neighbor is harboring. But whether the risk of catching something from another patient is real or imagined, one thing is certain. The stress of living and working in the city may make it seem so. 
 Added to this mix we now have the tangible-seeming risk of SARS. My waiting room is filled with patients brimming with the same question. "Could I have SARS?" a patient blurts out. Unsolicited, an office secretary replies, "You must ask the doctor." Meanwhile, the 13-inch television set in the middle of the room is playing all SARS all the time and updating my patients on the virus every hour. 
 An Asian-American architect has come to see me for the first time. No one sits next to him in the waiting room, and when he coughs, the room empties out altogether. 
 In my examination room, the architect announces that he returned from Hong Kong a few weeks ago. He travels to China and Hong Kong on business every few weeks, but because of the effect of the SARS scare on the economy there, he has lost his latest architectural job and has had to come back. On the plane bringing him home, he says, no one would sit with him. 
 He has come to me with a cough and symptoms of a cold, but no fever, no muscle aches, no difficulty breathing. Hearing this, I want to don a mask, but I put on gloves instead. 
 My patient plays down his symptoms, clearly realizing I may be worried about SARS. 
 "It's just a cold," he says. "It was going away, then it came back a little. It's only a tickle." 
 Without saying the magic word, I reassure him that what he has sounds not like something sinister but like simple bronchitis. I give him an antibiotic and send him home. 
 Afterward, I am suddenly nervous, thinking of my two young children. Doctors are not immune to worries about contagion. The concern doesn't go away completely until I have taken a shower and irrationally washed away the psychological remnant of my fear. It is the same thing I used to do for AIDS in the 80's, scrubbing my hands after every encounter with every patient, whether or not they might have AIDS.
 A week later, the architect has returned to the office with a smile rather than a cough. During that week, the specter of SARS has spread through the world more rapidly than even the disease itself. Though no new cases have been reported in the city, New Yorkers are increasingly frightened, increasingly wary. 
 Asia is more isolated than before, and the architect has no immediate prospect for work there. Here in New York, he thinks people are taking into account his Asian features and coloring and avoiding him on the street. I can see this occurring in my waiting room, where the other patients now deliberately avoid not only him but anything he has touched. 
 So why is the architect smiling? In my consultation room he confesses that he was actually afraid he had SARS, but now that he knows he doesn't, even though he is not working, he believes his future is bright. 
 New Yorkers are a nervous bunch to begin with, and their doctors are no exception. Most of us, doctors and patients alike, are medical Zeligs; like Woody Allen's character, we take on the symptoms and even the personality of the latest threat. In this case the global health alert and travel advisories that are meant to contain the droplets of the virus also spread virulent fear by word of mouth. The city felt this fear and vulnerability for many months pre-SARS; now the fear of bioterrorism has been converted into a fear of a deadly mystery virus.
 The stress of living in New York helps distort perceptions. The scientific literature analyzing the health of the city's residents shows, for example, that a disproportionately high percentage of adult New Yorkers suffer from heart disease related to a higher level of stress. After studying this phenomenon, the journal Psychosomatic Medicine reported in 1999 that these conditions were due to the strain of life in New York itself. 
 New Yorkers compensate for the pressure they feel by paying more attention to their symptoms, to every itch and twinge, as if this vigilance might protect us from an ever hostile environment. We seek out doctors more, and use elaborate health care nets to protect from the ultimate free fall.
 Our method of coping seems to be more successful than it gets credit for. A few weeks ago, to widespread amazement, the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene released statistics showing that despite all the stress of city living, the average lifespan in New York is higher than anywhere else in the country. 
 AND so, in the new era of fear of SARS, we molt and adapt, and before long we develop a new sort of shtick. Though New Yorkers always cough and kvetch, I've never heard so much nervous coughing before. We have always seemed on the verge of catching something, or, if not actually catching something, at least complaining that we might. Now each raspy breath seems more significant, each sniffling acquaintance seems ominously afflicted. 
 My office phone is ringing continually with respiratory complaints. I know better than to counter these concerns with the bald statistic of zero deaths from SARS in the United States so far. I don't want to appear to be playing down serious potential risk. If SARS spreads as easily as the common cold but is more deadly, it could cause medical mayhem here. Because we live in close quarters, the spread of any disease may be eased by proximity.
 In the meantime, New Yorkers are building a defense to the fear. Simply put, we get used to the latest obsession more quickly than people in other places do. There is nothing about this in the medical literature, but I am positive that as a group we dust ourselves off faster, suppress our worries quicker and return to work faster. We may be complainers, but we rally fast.
 Our respiratory filters join our gas masks and our stash of antibiotics in our tiny closets. If and when SARS actually comes here, beyond the small number of current probable cases -- two in New York City, according to the Centers for Disease Control -- we will have prepared ourselves for the idea. 
 We were made to feel vulnerable by the attacks of Sept. 11, but we were also toughened by them. And we were tough before. Like the architect, I am almost ready to get used to the idea of SARS, to resume my normal business and stop thinking about it. Before long, the patients in my waiting room will follow suit. 
 By the time SARS takes hold in New York, if it does, we'll be ready. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Yorkers are old hands at building defenses to their worries, even aboard the No. 6 train. We may be complainers, but we rally fast. (Catherine Leuthold/Corbis SABA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); COMMON COLD (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); DISEASE REPORTING (74%); CHILDREN (64%) SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME) 

PERSON: SIEGEL, MARC (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); CHINA (75%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



90 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Profits Recover.Jobs Vanish. Stocks Rise.

BYLINE:  By JEFF SOMMER 

 BODY:
The three major stock market indexes rose last week as upbeat corporate earnings announcements cheered many investors, despite a report that unemployment deepened in April.
 It was the third consecutive positive week for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which is up 5.7 percent for the year, and for the Nasdaq composite index, which has risen 12.5 percent. 
By contrast, the Dow Jones industrial average, which fell the previous week, is up only 2.9 percent for the year. 
 On Friday, investors shrugged off a Labor Depart-ment report that the unemployment rate in April rose to 6 percent from 5.8 percent, matching an eight-year high. 
 McDonald's was the best performer among the Dow stocks, rising 11.26 percent for the week. Shares of SBC Communications and J.P. Morgan Chase also rose more than 7 percent each.
 For the week, the Dow gained 276.33 points, or 3.3 percent, to 8,582.68, while the S.& P. 500 climbed 31.27 points, or 3.5 percent, to 930.08. The Nasdaq rose 68.34 points, or 4.8 percent, to 1,502.88.
 The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note rose to 3.93 percent, from 3.89 percent a week earlier. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"Note: Prices are plotted on varying scales so that percentage changes in stock price are comparable. CitigroupNYSE: CCitigroup and nine other investment firms agreed to pay $1.4 billion to settle charges that they issued biased research. Restrictions were also places on senior executives in dealings with research analysts.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $39.70WEEK'S CHANGE -- +3.25%EST. '03 P/E -- 12.33 McDonald'sNYSE: MCDMcDonald's said its first-quarter earnings jumped 29 percent based largely on favorable currency trends.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $17.59WEEK'S CHANGE -- +11.26%EST. '03 P/E -- 13.40 DialNYSE: DLDial agreed to pay $10 million to settle a federal lawsuit brought on behalf of 91 women who said the company ignored sexual harassment by men at one of its soap plants.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $20.10WEEK'S CHANGE -- -1.47%EST. '03 P/E -- 15.14 ImCloneNNM: IMCLEBoth the chairman and chief executive of ImClone Systems resigned under pressure amid internal and federal inquiries into the company's tax treatment of stock options.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $21.00WEEK'S CHANGE -- +18.44%EST. '03 P/E -- Tyco InternationalNYSE: TYCThe troubled conglomerate, whose former top executives are accused of looting the company, uncovered $1 billion in new accounting irregularities.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $16.78WEEK'S CHANGE -- 14.85%EST. '03 P/E -- 12.00 Taubman CentersNYSE: TCOSimon Property and Westfield America have accused Taubman Centers of improperly using its share repurchase program to thwart a hostile takeover bid.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $18.74WEEK'S CHANGE -- +5.58%EST. '03 P/E -- PrimediaNYSE: PRMThe owner of New York magazine posted a narrower first-quarter loss as lower costs helped offset a decline in sales.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $2.68WEEK'S CHANGE -- +3.08%EST. '03 P/E -- Priceline.comNNM: PCLNThe online seller of discount travel services reported a first-quarter loss of $8.03 million, but its hotel bookings surged. The company is also seeking a reverse stock split.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $3.14WEEK'S CHANGE -- +55.52%EST. '03 P/E -- 82.63 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



91 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
'You Should Have Thought of That Before'

BYLINE:  By RICK GLADSTONE 

 BODY:
Well she got her daddy's car
And she cruised through the hamburger stand now
Seems she forgot all about the library
Like she told her old man now
 "Fun, Fun, Fun," by Brian Wilson and Mike Love
 In that song back in 1964, the Beach Boys first explained why Daddy took the T-Bird away. But the lyrics still ring true today. According to a survey conducted by the Progressive Insurance Company, the most important reason parents revoke the driving privileges of their teen-agers is not reckless driving or even an accident. Instead, it's poor academic performance. The survey of 1,000 teen-age drivers, conducted in December and released last month, had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. RICK GLADSTONE

GRAPHIC: ChartTOP REASONS TEEN-AGERS LOSE DRIVING PRIVILEGES Bad grades: 18%Drove over speed limit: 16Got a ticket: 15Bad behavior: 13Drove with too many passengers: 8Did not wear a seat belt: 8Did not call home: 8Broke curfew: 8Drove somewhere not allowed: 6Drove car without permission: 6 Graph tracks sales of painkillers (year-over-year change, weekly) through March 23 Graph tracks new mortgage applications (year-over-year change, weekly) from November through April. Graph tracks energy prices (change in consumer price index) from April through March. Graph tracks personal bankruptcy filings (totals in thousands, weekly) from November through April. Graph tracks online sales (dollars in billions, weekly) from November through April Graph tracks hotel occupancy rates (four-week moving average, daily) for New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago through April 26. (Sources: Progressive Insurance driving survey ; NPDFoodworld painkillers ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics energy ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DRUNKEN AND RECKLESS DRIVING; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: PROGRESSIVE INSURANCE CO LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) PROGRESSIVE INSURANCE CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%)

PERSON: GLADSTONE, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



92 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Bah, Wilderness! Reopening a Frontier to Development

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
MORE than a century after historians declared an end to the American Frontier, the Interior Department made a somewhat similar announcement last month, with no fanfare. On a Friday night, just after Congress had left for spring break, the government said it would no longer consider huge swaths of public land to be wilderness.
 The administration declared that it would end reviews of Western landholdings for new wilderness protection. As long as the lands had been under consideration for the American wilderness system, they had temporary protection from development. 
 With a single order, the Bush administration removed more than 200 million acres from further wilderness study, including caribou stamping ground in Alaska, the red rock canyons and mesas of southern Utah, Case Mountain with its sequoia forests in California and a wall of rainbow-colored rock known as Vermillion Basin in Colorado.
By declaring an end to wild land surveys, the administration ruled out protection of these areas as formal wilderness -- which, by law, are supposed to be places people can visit but not stay. Now, these areas, managed by the Bureau of Land Management, could be opened to mining, drilling, logging or road-building.
The idea of designating an area as wilderness -- wild land left as is, for its own sake -- is an American construct. Artists and writers in the mid-19th century led the charge for wilderness, with Henry David Thoreau arguing from his pond-side home in Concord, Mass., that wilderness sanctuaries were a necessary complement to civilization.
In setting aside the first wildlife refuge in 1903, on Pelican Island in Florida, President Theodore Roosevelt protected a patch of America that is now the smallest of the formally protected lands -- a mere five acres. And since passage of the Wilderness Act of 1964, 106 million acres have been given the wild lands designation, with more than half of that total in Alaska.
Over the years, the Bureau of Land Management, the nation's biggest landlord, with 262 million acres under its control, has continued to survey its vast holdings, trying to determine whether more land is suitable for wilderness. But the Bush administration says wilderness reviews should have ended 13 years ago, at the close of a study period mandated by Congress. This interpretation is challenged by conservationists who plan to appeal the Bush order in court. 
If the Friday night declaration represents the beginning of a broad new land management policy, the Interior Department has not said so. There was not even an announcement of the end of the wilderness reviews on the department's Web site.
Instead, the change came about in a settlement of a 1996 lawsuit filed by the State of Utah against the Interior Department over a reinventory of three million acres conducted by Bruce Babbitt, the interior secretary at the time. Most of the lawsuit had been dismissed and sat dormant until the state amended its complaint in March.
"This does not mean that someday down the road we may still manage some of these lands as wilderness," said Patricia Lynn Scarlett, an assistant interior secretary.
The move follows a consistent pattern in the president's environmental policy: to change the way the land is managed, without changing the law. Whether the issue is allowing snowmobiles in Yellowstone National Park or logging in the Pacific Northwest, the course has been to settle lawsuits by opponents of wild land protection, opening up the areas to wide use, without going to Congress to rewrite the rules.
Oil and gas developers and others point out that the Clinton administration did the same thing -- making broad changes of policy by administrative order -- but on behalf of an environmental constituency. In their view, wilderness protection amounts to a land grab, putting potential timber or mining areas off limits. They say citizen groups were abusing the law by bringing land surveys to the government, which then managed the land as de facto wilderness. Leaders of some Western states have long complained that wilderness study essentially eliminates the chance to gain any economic value from the land, money that is needed for state coffers.
To many conservationists, the announcement was more than another setback. Wilderness, in the oft-quoted line of the writer Wallace Stegner, is "the geography of hope." To have that geography capped, they argue, has had the same effect on some outdoor lovers as the fencing of the public range had on open-country cattle ranchers. "They are trying to declare, by fiat, that wilderness does not exist," said Heidi McIntosh of the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance.
The interior secretary, Gale A. Norton, said that the policy reflected the administration's attempt to cooperate with local officials and heed concerns of industries that rely on public lands' resources. "The Department of the Interior believes that we should manage these lands in a way that provides the greatest benefit to the public," Ms. Norton wrote in a letter to Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah.
In another letter, Ms. Norton said it seemed senseless to consider declaring any more wilderness areas in Alaska because its elected officials are against expanding this protection. But critics say that in California, a majority of elected officials favor more wilderness. And in New Mexico, Gov. Bill Richardson, a Democrat, has asked the government to prevent drilling in 1.8 million acres of the Otero Mesa, an area that has all the qualities of wilderness.
The New Mexico land is the largest contiguous piece of Chihuahuan Desert grassland left in North America, Governor Richardson said. It may be wild, but for now, it can no longer be Wilderness.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After a Bush administration order, Fisher Towers in Utah, top, and Bering Glacier in Alaska among other areas could be reopened to mining, drilling, logging or road-building. (Jamie Buscher) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDERNESS (91%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); MAMMALS (76%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); SURVEYING & MAPPING (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); WILDLIFE (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); LITIGATION (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%) WILDERNESS AREAS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (55%) INTERIOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (78%) UTAH, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (97%) WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



93 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: State Says Businesses Must Wait 2 More Months for 9/11 Recovery Aid 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
Four months after applying for government aid under a program to help small businesses in Lower Manhattan recover from the World Trade Center attack, 1,600 businesses are still waiting for their promised grants, and government officials now say they will have to wait up to two months more.
 Owners of many businesses say they need the money now as they continue struggling to overcome steep losses they suffered when the September 2001 terrorist attack forced them to close for weeks or months and then led to sharply reduced business after they reopened. The undelivered grants total more than $54 million, an average of nearly $34,000 each. 
 But the state agency that runs the World Trade Center Business Recovery Grant Program says that the delay, paradoxically, is a sign of the program's success. Officials of the agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, say the program drew so many qualified applicants that the total amount of the approved grants, $535.3 million, exceeded the $481 million that the agency established for the program. 
A spokesman for the agency, Alex Dudley, said that more than 13,500 companies had been approved for the existing $481 million allocation, and that the vast majority of those companies had received their grants.
The agency's need to obtain the additional $54.3 million has caused the delay in delivering the grants to the 1,600 businesses that were approved for that amount, Mr. Dudley said last week. Another factor, he said, is that many applications arrived in a surge in the weeks before the Dec. 31 deadline, causing a backlog in the review and approval process that kept the agency from knowing until March how much more money it had to seek.
The agency is now asking for those funds from another state body, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, which controls hundreds of millions of dollars in unallocated money that the federal government has made available, Mr. Dudley said.
Obtaining the additional funds requires the approval of both the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation's board and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the federal agency that provided the money, and a successful effort will take until July, a spokesman for the Lower Manhattan agency said. 
The spokesman, Matthew Higgins, said the agency's board was likely to consider the request at its next meeting, on May 15. If it approves the application, a 15-day waiting period for public comments is required before the request can go to the Department of Housing and Urban Development, where, Mr. Higgins said, consideration of such applications usually takes about 30 days.
But Roy A. Bernardi, the department's assistant secretary for community planning and development, said his agency would "make every effort to fast-track" any such request, and an aide, who spoke on the condition of not being identified, cited possible approval by his agency "within two weeks."
Either way, it means more waiting and more frustration for people like Bruce Kessler, who said that he applied on Dec. 27 for a grant for his catering company and that Empire State awarded it more than $20,000 on Feb. 24. He needs the money now, he said.
"We lost $150,000 to $200,000" in the year after the trade center attack, he said, and "we're still 50 percent down" from the level of business before then. He said he wanted to use the money "to hire people to market the company more," which he said was vital in seeking to gain new clients in a very competitive business. His firm, CEO Catering, was on Warren Street, several blocks from the trade center. It has since moved to SoHo.
"When you call, they apologize and empathize and say they're doing the best they can," Mr. Kessler said of his inquiries to Empire State about when he might see the money.
Mr. Dudley said pretty much the same thing: "We're working as hard as possible to get them the money as soon as possible."
Under the program, businesses and nonprofit groups between 14th Street and the Battery with fewer than 500 employees were eligible for compensation for economic losses stemming from the terrorist attack.
Those in the trade center or close to it were generally eligible for up to 25 days' worth of losses, to a maximum of $300,000. Those in the program's zone farthest from the trade center -- from Houston to 14th Street -- generally qualified for up to three days' worth of losses, to a maximum of $50,000.
Though the total $535.3 million approved for more than 15,000 businesses and nonprofit groups averaged about $35,000 each, Empire State reported in November that half of the grants were for less than $13,300.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Kessler has moved CEO Catering from downtown to SoHo. He says he needs a $20,000 grant to "market the company more." (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); CITIES (66%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%)

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



94 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2478 words

HEADLINE: As SARS Outbreak Took Shape, Health Agency Took Fast Action 

BYLINE:  By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. with LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN 

DATELINE: GENEVA, May 2 

 BODY:
It took until mid-March nearly four months after the first outbreak -- for the world to learn of SARS. Yet a look back at the early days of the epidemic, and at the earliest warnings given to the World Health Organization, leaves little doubt that the agency acted as swiftly as it could.
 Some opportunities were missed along the way, and the health agency was led astray by assumptions that later proved wrong. But public health experts say the agency's investigators are only as powerful as the information they have to work with. And from the start, they were frustrated by the lack of official candor in China, where severe acute respiratory syndrome first erupted last November. 
 "W.H.O. did a fantastic job," said Dr. Jack Woodall, the moderator of ProMED, the Federation of American Scientists' Program for Monitoring Emerging Diseases, which as early as Feb. 10 posted an alert on its Web site about a mysterious outbreak in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou. "They acted marvelously and exemplarily, as fast as they could. But it dragged on and on because China wouldn't cooperate. 
"The World Health Organization isn't the world health police," he continued. "It's a club, like a club in Boston where everyone's a member and they slap each other on the back. Every member's a sovereign country, and if they don't want to report something, they don't."
Dr. Barry R. Bloom, dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, said the global alert issued by the health agency on March 12 was "enormously courageous."
"They took an enormous risk," Dr. Bloom said. "If you ask 'What risk?' I remind you of swine flu."
In 1976, a single death in New Jersey from what was feared to be a genetic echo of the killer swine flu of 1918 set off a panicky rush for a vaccine. The disease disappeared after infecting only 500 people, the vaccine was abandoned after 32 deaths from side effects, and the director of the federal Centers for Disease Control was dismissed.
The Outbreak Center, on the fourth floor of Building L of the W.H.O. campus here, began officially querying China about its mysterious epidemic on Feb. 10. As Chinese officials have since acknowledged, the response was a mix of inept diagnoses, outright lies and, finally, stonewalling.
Over the next two weeks, Chinese officials said that the outbreak had killed only five people and that it had been snuffed out in the province of Guangdong, where Guangzhou is. They then said it had been caused by a mycoplasma, then by chlamydia. They then stopped responding and forbade doctors to do so. It was not until April 20 -- when China's health minister was dismissed -- that the epidemic's true scope began to emerge.
By Feb. 12, frustrated flu specialists in Hong Kong working with the World Health Organization quietly carried out a sort of medical commando raid, slipping into Guangdong hospitals to get tissue samples from dying patients. But because the specialists were looking for bird flu viruses, they missed the apparent cause of SARS, a coronavirus.
And on Feb. 19, the organization and the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sent a joint investigative team to Beijing to find out what was going on in southern China. But Beijing health officials stalled the team until they gave up. Permission to visit Guangdong was not given until April 2.
There were two unlucky misses very early in the epidemic. On Nov. 20, at what is thought to be the very beginning of the outbreak, a W.H.O. flu specialist who was in Beijing for a vaccine conference heard of a spate of unusual deaths among health care workers in Guangdong, which he now suspects included SARS cases. He requested tissue samples, but the ones he received contained only common flu strains.
And on Nov. 27, a report of a "flu outbreak" closing schools and factories was picked up by a Canadian Health Ministry computer that sifts news reports for the W.H.O. But the report was never translated from the Chinese.
More important, investigators believed as late as mid-March that China was secretly and stoically fighting a new bird flu strain, possibly one as lethal as the swine strain, then called "Spanish flu," that killed more than 25 million people in 1918 and 1919.
That notion was reinforced on Feb. 19, when two real cases of bird flu were diagnosed.
"In retrospect, this was a total coincidence," said Dr. Stephen M. Ostroff, deputy director of the C.D.C.'s National Center for Infectious Diseases. "But our feeling was that this was the unifying hypothesis behind the outbreaks."
The crucial moment that sent the disease caroming around the world, probably a sneeze or cough in Hong Kong's Metropole Hotel, took place on Feb. 21.
But that would not be known for weeks, and even Canadian officials say the W.H.O. reacted as quickly as it could.
"They were working with what they had," said Allison McGeer, a Toronto doctor who later fell ill herself fighting the epidemic, but recovered. "We knew from ProMED that something was going on. But having the announcement a few days earlier would still almost certainly have not been able to prevent initial spread. There were too many things we didn't know."

An Illness Emerges
On Nov. 20, Dr. Klaus Stohr was in Beijing to discuss China's flu vaccination policy. Dr. Stohr heads the W.H.O.'s flu program, for which 111 laboratories around the world annually scan 200,000 samples from flu victims, looking for candidates for the next year's vaccine.
As it happened, the first case of SARS had emerged that month in Guangdong, perhaps in the markets where all sorts of live animals, including chickens, cats, turtles and badgers, are sold for food. At the meeting in Beijing, Guangdong's representative described a small flu outbreak that had killed several people in one hospital. "I think that was SARS," Dr. Stohr said in hindsight. 
At the time, though, there was no particular reason to suspect that the outbreak was anything other than flu, Dr. Stohr said. In epidemiological terms, "one or three or five deaths in a province of 55 million is nothing."
"But," he said, "I thought, 'Let's be on the safe side and get the virus.' " 
Tests of samples from Guangdong at the C.D.C. and a Japanese laboratory turned up routine flu strains, Dr. Stohr said, so they were discarded.
"If the conference had been in December, and there had been 100 deaths -- I don't know," he said, "but things might have been different."
As early as January, hospitals in small cities in Guangdong were telling the provincial health department about clusters of atypical pneumonia. Herbal medicine shops were besieged and the price of white vinegar shot up 12-fold because it was believed that boiling it into vapor would disinfect a house.
Whether or not reports of those cases were sent on to Beijing, they were not being disclosed to the W.H.O.
In December and January, "it was dead silence from China," said Dr. Guenael Rodier, the W.H.O.'s chief of communicable disease surveillance.
That, epidemiologists said, was not surprising.
"Numbers on health outbreaks are the most politicized numbers in the world," said Dr. Stephen O. Cunnion, a retired outbreak specialist from the Navy who posted the Feb. 10 warning on ProMED after hearing from friends in China. "From China, you can't even get an accurate count of how many people have been killed in an earthquake." 
On Feb. 5, Dr. Stohr said, panic grew when the Chinese subsidiary of the drug company Roche took out ads saying that its drug Tamiflu worked against bird flu.
"That put in the minds of people that a bird flu epidemic had started," he said. The company later apologized.
No laboratory had by then found bird flu in humans, but southern China was primed to fear it. An outbreak there in 1997 infected only 18 people but killed 6 of them. The outbreak was stopped by the slaughter of 1.4 million birds.
Moreover, Dr. Stohr said, in December, an unusually powerful strain killed many wild birds in the Hong Kong Botanic Gardens.
Mutating bird flus are an epidemiologist's nightmare. Though most strains that infect humans -- usually poultry farmers -- cause nothing worse than conjunctivitis, the 1997 strain, which the 18 victims all caught from birds, had the same mortality rate as smallpox.
A fatal strain that could be passed from human to human "is the sword of Damocles hanging above all of us," said Dr. Rodier. "The good news about SARS is that it's not a pandemic flu."
On Feb. 11, in response to an official W.H.O. inquiry, Beijing tersely replied that an unidentified pneumonia in Guangdong had hospitalized 300 people and killed 5.
Guangdong's Communist Party secretary announced to the news media that "the illness has been effectively treated and controlled."
But at the same time, provincial health officials publicly urged anyone with fever or cough to seek immediate medical help and suggested that residents fumigate rooms with a vinegar-based steam wash, wear gauze masks, and stay away from shopping centers and train stations.
The next day, said a W.H.O. official, a flu lab in Hong Kong affiliated with the agency was asked to get some samples clandestinely.
Developing a vaccine takes about eight months, so if a dangerous new flu was likely to hit the world by the next winter, time was already short.
The lab's doctors "had friends and relatives working in hospitals in China, so they took the bus or train over and got samples from patients who died," the official said.
But because they were looking for bird flu, they found nothing. 
On Feb. 14, Li Liming, director of the Chinese Center for Disease Control, said that there had been no new cases since Feb. 10 and that the situation was "under control and not as serious as the rumors say." 
On Feb. 18, the Chinese disease center announced that chlamydia bacteria had been found in two patients' lungs, and that it must have caused the outbreak.
"We didn't believe it," Dr. Ostroff of the C.D.C. in Atlanta said. Antibiotics also cure chlamydia.

A Worrisome Turn
On Feb. 19, the plot took a twist. A Hong Kong laboratory reported on a 33-year-old man and his 9-year-old son who had hurried to Fujian Province to see the man's dying 8-year-old daughter. The father died on his return on Feb. 17; the son was sick. Both had the H5N1 strain of avian influenza.
Dr. Stohr said a Hong Kong colleague asked him, "Are you sitting down?" before giving him the news. This might be the nightmare bird flu -- a fatal strain that had passed from human to human.
Ultimately, however, that one-family outbreak seems to have spontaneously died out. The cause of the daughter's death remains unknown.
Officials outside of China, now very worried, tried another route. Dr. Keiji Fukuda of the C.D.C. and Dr. Hitoshi Oshitani of the World Health Organization were dispatched to Beijing and told to get to southern China.
Prompted by the C.D.C., Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, pressed China's deputy health minister, then visiting Washington, for permission for the team to visit.
Permission was granted, and they arrived Feb. 23. "But it was the Asian cultural thing of not wanting to say no," said Dr. James W. LeDuc, director of the C.D.C.'s division of viral and rickettsial diseases. "Keiji got to Beijing and found out he didn't have an invitation."
The two men were left sitting in their hotel rooms for two weeks with nothing but routine briefings. In early March, they left in frustration.
Investigating outbreaks is always politically touchy. As a United Nations agency, it has no power to order member states to cooperate.
"If I wasn't happy with the U.S. investigation of SARS cases in Pennsylvania, would I have the right to pop up in Philadelphia?" asked Dr. Michael J. Ryan, coordinator of the W.H.O.'s global alert system.
Because the W.H.O. does not have enough money to field its own teams, it must send volunteers. The C.D.C. in Atlanta is the biggest contributor but, W.H.O. officials said, some countries are about as eager to see American health inspectors as Iraq was to see American arms inspectors.

Facing the Facts
With China uncooperative, momentum stalled. Then on Feb. 21, the disease escaped China when a 64-year-old Guangdong doctor checked into the Metropole in Hong Kong and infected guests who would spread it to Toronto, Hanoi, Singapore and elsewhere in Hong Kong.
The true nature of the disease -- that it was not a flu, but a pneumonia indifferent to antibiotics and antivirals -- was not understood until March 11, when two factors merged.
Dr. Carlo Urbani, a W.H.O. clinician, chillingly detailed the outbreak he was fighting in Hanoi. Johnny Chen, an American businessman who had been in the Metropole, had infected 22 hospital workers and 7 at his garment business in Hanoi. Dr. Urbani would soon die of the disease.
Tissue samples, flown to Bangkok on a plane chartered by the United States Embassy because local airlines refused to carry them, showed no flu. Meanwhile, workers in a Hong Kong hospital were falling sick. An airport worker who had also been in the Metropole had been put on a jet nebulizer to clear his lungs and had infected 112 others. A Hong Kong laboratory found no flu in them.
On March 12, the W.H.O. issued a global health alert as a routine news release. With war in Iraq looming, it got relatively little attention. Three more events prompted its much more emphatic March 15 alert.
The Canadian authorities reading the first announcement recognized that the pneumonias in one Toronto family fit the pattern. The authorities in Singapore said a hospitalized flight attendant who had stayed at the Metropole also did.
And then, at 2:30 a.m. on March 15, Dr. Ryan was awakened by Singaporean officials warning him that a doctor who had treated pneumonia patients there had just left a conference in New York, told relatives he was feeling sick, and boarded a plane home with a stopover in Europe.
Dr. Ryan spent the next four hours hunting down the plane and getting the doctor safely isolated in Frankfurt. That incident galvanized W.H.O. officials into issuing a much more urgent and detailed alert.
They also picked a name.
"We have to brand this," said Dr. David L. Heymann, the W.H.O.'s chief of infectious diseases. After tries like Atypical Pneumonia Without Diagnosis, they settled on a pronounceable acronym. 
Asked if he thought an earlier alert could have saved any lives, Denis G. Aitken, an aide to the W.H.O.'s director general, the senior official on hand that day, said he doubted it, noting that the four new outbreaks were well under way by early March.
"If you lose sleep over that, you'll become petrified," Mr. Aitken said. "You just have to face the facts."

Rise of a Virus
Previous articles in this series examined the economic impact of SARS and the early spread of the epidemic. A later article will chronicle the search for the virus that causes it. The articles remain online at nytimes.com/sars.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 11, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with a front-page article about the World Health Organization's response to the SARS epidemic misidentified the official shown with Dr. David L. Heymann, the organization's executive director for communicable diseases. He was Dr. Klaus Stohr, scientific director of its SARS investigation, not Dr. Michael J. Ryan.
The article also misidentified the organization that runs ProMED, the Program for Monitoring Emerging Diseases, which posted an alert on its Web site on Feb. 10 about what later proved to be a SARS outbreak in Guangzhou, China. The parent group is the International Society for Infectious Diseases. (The Federation of American Scientists established the program but turned it over to the international group in 1999.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: EARLY WARNING -- Dr. Stephen O. Cunnion, a retired outbreak specialist from the Navy, posted an alert, above, on a Web site on Feb. 10 after hearing from friends in China. Dr. Cunnion's e-mail address has been obscured.; VIRUS TRACKERS -- Top, Dr. Michael J. Ryan, left, and Dr. David L. Heymann of the W.H.O. Above, clockwise from right, Doctors Stephen M. Ostroff, Julie Gerberding, James Hughes and James W. LeDuc, of the C.D.C. (Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. 16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (94%); SARS (93%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (92%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); VACCINES (89%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BACTERIA (73%); INFLUENZA (73%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (66%); WEB SITES (53%) SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); SURVEYS AND SERIES 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (91%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (56%) WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: JULIE LOUISE GERBERDING (50%) MCNEIL, DONALD G JR; ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (71%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%) SOUTH CHINA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



95 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: COMMUTER'S JOURNAL; 
The Price We Pay for Heading South Each Morning

BYLINE:  By JACK KADDEN; Jack Kadden is an editor at The Times. His e-mailaddress is kadden@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
LET'S pause to savor a golden moment that will pass all too quickly.
 As of this month, New York State rail commuters are paying more, on a per-mile basis, than Connecticut commuters -- 7 percent more, to be precise. 
 That's because they were hit with a 25 percent fare increase on May 1. Previously, we were paying 18.3 percent more than they were, according to Connecticut Department of Transportation figures. 
But, the planets will soon move back into alignment and we will recapture the honor of bearing the largest burden of any commuters in the nation.
As early as July 1, Connecticut plans to raise fares for travel to New York by an average of 15 percent. For a commuter from Westport, that means a monthly ticket will rise to $292, from $254. When the increase takes effect, we'll be paying 8 percent more than New Yorkers.
The reason for this disparity is simple: Connecticut makes commuters pay a far larger share of the cost of running the railroad than New York, or any other state -- roughly 74 percent, compared with 58 percent for New York City subway and bus riders and 51 percent for Long Island Rail Road riders.
To some people, that's not such a bad thing. After all, why should an insurance executive in Hartford or a real estate agent in Norwich have to subsidize my railroad ticket?
Moreover, some argue, most commuters from Fairfield County are making big salaries and won't miss an extra $38 a month. That's less than the cost of an oil change for a Lexus.
But there's another way to look at it.
Fairfield County is an important economic engine for the state's economy, and its future depends on easing the highway crisis that makes driving to work on Interstate 95 or the Merritt Parkway such an exercise in frustration.
Arguably, I-95 is one of the worst roads in the nation, and its crowded, dangerous conditions have become a disincentive for businesses that are considering moving into the state. There is no easy solution to the traffic problem, but getting more people to use Metro-North couldn't hurt.
That's why Prof. Fred Carstensen, an economist at the University of Connecticut, thinks the fare increase is such a bad idea.
"It's an outrage, because it's bad policy," he said. "You have a congestion problem in Fairfield County, and this will add to it."
He's convinced the fare increase will send more people to their cars, increasing traffic and air pollution. And he's not alone.
State Senator William H. Nickerson, a Greenwich Republican and a member of the legislature's Transportation Committee, said a recent report by the Transportation Strategy Board concluded that the only way to ease traffic is to increase rail ridership. "The fare increase operates counter to that," he said.
Harry P. Harris, chief of the Bureau of Public Transportation for the state's transportation department, said he doesn't think many commuters will switch. "There is no question there will be a momentary drop in ridership," he said. "There always has been." But he added. "It always bounces back in a month or two, because the cost of driving to New York City is so horrendous."
Maybe and maybe not.
At a hearing last month on the fare increase, Terry Shea of Fairfield, said, "I commute to New York with my wife, and at a combined cost of almost $600 a month, it will be a whole lot cheaper to drive."
He said a lot of people on the train were talking about forming carpools.
Mr. Harris said most in-state fares won't be going up, so local commuters won't have a reason to give up the train. But he conceded that they represent only 6 percent of riders in Connecticut. He also said the state has not done any market studies. And that is Professor Carstensen's biggest complaint.
He said the state should conduct a full-blown study of the economic and environmental impact of higher fares. "We ought to stop flying blind. We ought to figure out what the rates of return are."
He estimated that a 15 percent fare increase would only bring in 11 percent more revenue because of people who choose to drive. Moreover, he said, a comprehensive study would only cost about $50,000, which he called "chump change." He's right; it's less than one half of 1 percent of the $12 million the fare increase is expected to raise annually.
Ultimately, Professor Carstensen admitted that the state has little choice but to raise fares, given the $1 billion budget deficit it faces.
But Senator Nickerson argued, "If we don't start addressing the region's transportation needs now, when will we start?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) RAILROADS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMMUTING 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD CO 

PERSON: KADDEN, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



96 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Going in (Nostalgic) Circles 

BYLINE:  By ABIGAIL SULLIVAN MOORE 

 BODY:
FOR only 50 cents, you can step into the past by taking a ride on the historic carousel in Bushnell Park in downtown Hartford.
 Sheltered by a pavilion with stained-glass windows, the antique wooden carousel sits near the bottom of a gentle slope, above a new toddler playscape and a shallow reflecting pool adorned by modern sculpture. 
 The carousel was purchased by the Knox Foundation in 1976 for $55,000 from an Ohio amusement park to help revitalize downtown Hartford, said Louise DeMars, executive director of the New England Carousel Museum, which manages the carousel for Hartford. 
The 89-year-old carousel has been supported by the city and with donations from corporations and private individuals. Support has also come from the nearly 600-strong Friends of the Bushnell Park Carousel, whose dues range from $10 for a Cherub membership (for children) to $5,000. 
Most recently, the carousel's floor was refurbished. Ms. DeMars is now seeking money to restore the housing that encircles the carousel's top like a faded gold crown. She hopes to raise $27,000 through local foundations, corporations, carousel members and the National Carousel Association.
Ms. DeMars has raised $1,000 so far, and there is talk of having a big party at the carousel in the fall to come up with more money.
Restoration needs aside, the carousel generates 500 rides on weekdays when school is out and up to 1,000 rides on weekends, said Mark T. Krell, the carousel's assistant manager.
"It brings out the children in everyone," he said.
The carousel will run from May through late October.
Each year, Hartford school children receive free tickets, Ms. DeMars said. Area schools also come for "spin and learn," a one-hour session that combines a trip to the carousel with a visit to the state Capitol.
"Last year, we had someone who was 96 years old," Mr. Krell said. "She wanted to ride a horse that went up and down."
Of the carousel's 48 horses, 36 are "jumpers," which move up and down; the rest are stationary. There are also two chariots that, Ms. DeMars said, accommodated the wide skirts worn in the early part of the century.
"Back then, the carousel was considered a thrill ride," she said. 
Everything in the Bushnell Park Carousel is carved in the ornate Coney Island style, a carousel design characterized by big gold buckles and shiny fish-scale armor on the horses.
"I like the glitz," Ms. DeMars said.
The three-tiered carousel also brings out the romance in people. 
Two West Hartford residents, Ian Smith, 36, and Sandy Collins, 35, are planning to exchange their wedding vows, standing on the carousel during an evening ceremony May 24 before 175 guests. 
"I used to go there as a kid," Mr. Smith said. "I loved it."
For Ms. Collins, the carousel evoked memories of visits to other carousels with her father, who died when she was 17. Holding the wedding at the carousel is a way to remember him, she said. 
After the vows are exchanged, the guests will be invited to take a spin.
"The carousel seemed like a magical place to begin our journey as a married couple," Mr. Smith said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, staff and volunteers at Bushnell Park cleaning the carousel, which opened yesterday and will run through late October. Left, Louise DeMars at work. (Photographs by Mary Haggerty for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); HORSES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SCULPTURE (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); CORPORATE GIVING (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (66%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%) CAROUSELS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND CAROUSEL MUSEUM 

PERSON: DEMARS, LOUISE; MOORE, ABIGAIL SULLIVAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%) HARTFORD (CONN); BUSHNELL PARK (HARTFORD, CONN)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



97 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Hartford Y to Close Rooms 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE 

 BODY:
IT'S a small room with bad lighting and scuffed furniture. On a recent Saturday morning, as a cold rain splattered the window and corridor signs announced Alcoholics Anonymous meetings and candy machine hours, the shabbiness of the place was palpable. But for Angel Sanchez, who just got out of jail, a room at the Hartford Y.M.C.A. is a sanctuary he can afford. Hearing the place is scheduled to close left him with a worry as raw as the weather.
 "'I heard about that and I don't know what I'm going to do," he said. "'The only other place for me is the shelter." 
 Choice doesn't figure much into the lives of the 120 or so people who live here, a short stroll from the gold-domed Capitol. They are accustomed to having little. They stay here, they said, because it is clean, safe and on a bus line, but mostly because it's cheap: $25 a night; $20, for a shared bath. Some, like Mr. Sanchez, arrived fresh out of prison with nothing more than a few dollars and a change of clothes. Others are exiled from home for one too many battles with alcohol, drugs or mental health.
Whatever brought them here, the question of where they will go when the Y.M.C.A. shuts down its residence remains in limbo. Last month, the board of directors announced it wanted to focus resources on programs and jettison the residential units above its athletic facilities and administrative offices. The board wants to spend $10 million to build or rent space for two neighborhood centers in the north and south end of Hartford.
The Y.M.C.A. also plans to spend about $13 million on new gyms, locker rooms and racquetball courts; the existing athletic facilities were built in 1938. The projects are contingent upon a feasibility study and raising the money. Daniel Tracy, a Y.M.C.A. board member,said he expected the process to take two to three years, but said the organization was committed to closing the single-room residences.
"This is the painful part of all of this," Mr. Tracy said, of displacing the men and women who live at the Y.M.C.A. 
When the 128-room residential tower was completed in 1972, it was the last residential facility built in the United States by a Y.M.C.A., said Kevin Washington, president of the Y.M.C.A. of Greater Hartford. A major source of funding for the complex was supplied by the local insurance industry to create temporary housing for corporate recruits.
"You can see we don't have the corporate types anymore and haven't in a long time," he said. "Housing was on its way out then."
But other similar facilities in the state, including Y.M.C.A.'s, are maintaining and even strengthening their residential components. Hartford's Y plans to renovate and expand to convert its 85 single rooms into 71 efficiency apartments to provide transitional housing for low-income women, said its housing director, Carol Dunn. Two Y.M.C.A. residential complexes in Bridgeport and New Haven are flourishing, said Philip Dwyer, director of the Central Coast Y.M.C.A. that serves those areas. 
In Hartford, the Y wants to strengthen its athletic facilities (although its pool is scheduled to close) and get back into the neighborhoods to reach some 4,000 children, Mr. Tracy said. The Y.M.C.A. residents require a range of services the organization cannot provide, such as drug and employment counseling. Indeed, other than the A.A. meetings, the only fliers in the rack outside the elevator are for rental apartments and Chinese takeout.
In Hartford there are plans for the construction of 1,200 new residential units within the next two years that are expected to attract middle and upper income people. Harry Freeman, the city's director of economic development, said the apartments or condos, including sites like the $500 million Adriaen's Landing hotel and conference center, will be market or luxury rate. Market rate rentals begin at $1,000 a month. Asked about affordable housing downtown, Mr. Freeman could only point to the market rate units.
"'If you add up the cost of a month's stay at the Y, it's $600," he said. "There are a lot of apartments in Hartford for $600." Mr. Freeman also pointed out the city's home ownership program, a program once directed by Mayor Eddie Perez in his days as a neighborhood organizer. Under the plan, low-income Hartford residents can buy houses at below market rates and with little down payment.
Yet Y.M.C.A. staff said only 18 of the residents were long-term, staying for more than two months. The rest are looking for a way station. Mary McAtee, executive director of the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness, said many people used the Y.M.C.A. as a respite from the city's eight shelters or a relative's sofa.
"They're going to end up in the shelters and the shelters are already overflowing," Ms. McAtee said. Others are trying to establish a foothold on the future. A man who dashed out the front door Saturday morning was headed to work.
"I've got to catch a bus," he said. "I'm working construction. Twenty-five bucks an hour."
The man said he waited in front of a drugstore for contractors to offer work; Mr. Sanchez found work with a landscaper the same way.
George Real, 41, has regular work. He's the assistant superviser of the laundry room at St. Francis Hospital. What the Y provides him with is an affordable safety net between arguments at home. He said the most inexpensive hotels run about $200 a week and aren't always near public transportation.
On a recent morning, he leaned on his muscled, tattooed forearm as he watched television from his bed. He was killing time before leaving to pick up his children for the day.
"No one bothers you here," he said. "It's not expensive. Sure you have to put up with people, kids coming in and out of the lobby for the gym, but there's a canteen downstairs that sells hot dogs and deli food." 
Mr. Real parted the curtain to display a panoramic view of the park, the Capitol and the handsome Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Arch bedecked with seraphim.
"See that?" he said with child-like wonder. "I'm up here with the angels."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hartford Y.M.C.A., top, is planning to shut down it residential complex, which would displace the people who stay in its rooms, above. George Real, left, said no one bothers him at the Y and it is inexpensive. Angel Sanchez, below, said his only choice may be to stay at shelters. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (72%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); RACQUETBALL (64%); INSURANCE (50%) HOUSING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (59%) YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSN 

PERSON: STOWE, STACEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HARTFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



98 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2203 words

HEADLINE: S.O.S. From the Stacks 

BYLINE:  By CARIN RUBENSTEIN 

 BODY:
THIS is a tale of two cities in the one called New Rochelle.
 In the last year tension between the two New Rochelles has mounted. Dueling Web sites have sprung up. Campaign funds compete. Dueling leaflets are handed out. Countless meetings have been called. 
 The conflict is over the financing and fate of the city's library, a community institution that is rarely the target of such intense cross-fire. 
Because of a confluence of events and decisions by the New York State Education Department, the New Rochelle City Council and the New Rochelle Public Library Board of Trustees, residents of New Rochelle may lose their main library, as well as the Huguenot Children's Library, if they do not vote to approve a new tax to support a $2.96 million budget on June 3. In the past, the library was paid for out of the New Rochelle city budget. But the city is suffering budget woes, and the City Council voted to remove library financing from its charter early this year after learning of the state law requiring that city residents must vote on library budgets. As a result, the library's city-based financing runs out on June 30. The new tax has already been voted down twice; the June 3 vote will be the last. 
The possibility that New Rochelle's library -- the second busiest in Westchester and among the oldest -- may have to shut down has become a lightning rod for mounting frustration and anger over New Rochelle's budget problems. It has also polarized this second-largest city in Westchester along political, social and economic lines, dividing even lifelong residents and former classmates. 
At a time when New York State is threatening substantial cutbacks in cultural and community subsidies, and Westchester County has already reduced its contribution to local libraries, New Rochelle's situation may be a preview of cutbacks in store for other communities.
"The financial problems in Albany are terrific, and what's at risk are precious services," said Maurice J. Freedman, director of the Westchester Library System, who spoke at a recent information session about the New Rochelle situation sponsored by the League of Women Voters of New Rochelle. The meeting was attended primarily by a consortium of library advocates who have hired a media planning company for a public education campaign and have established their own Web site (www.saveourlibrary.org).
"We're not talking about just budget cuts, we're talking about the survival of the library," said Pat Anderson, director of the New Rochelle Public Library. The library, although the highest net lender in the county, ranks 30th out of 38th in per capita spending, she said. 
The bitter disagreement over who should be underwritingNew Rochelle's library is, in part, a result of a law passed in 1996 by the New York State Legislature concerning the management of small city school district libraries. The law stipulates that those libraries be financed with a tax separate from the city budget, as the schools themselves are. Those taxes are voted upon directly by residents. 
No one in Albany, or in New Rochelle, noticed that the New Rochelle library was chartered this way until 2001, when James L. Farrell Jr., a library development specialist with the New York State Education Department in Albany, visited library trustees, at their request, to discuss additional sources of money. 
"I went down and explained to them that they should be voting on the budget, and they were in shock," Mr. Farrell recalled. 
The library trustees, all seven of whom were appointed by the school board, put a $3.4 million budget to a vote last year on June 12 with little publicity and only one polling place for 37,000 registered voters. It was defeated, 2,208 to 1,518. They tried again on July 9, this time with 12 polling places, but the proposal was again turned down, with a much closer vote of 3,948 to 3,770.
The third and final vote will be on a pared-down budget of $2.96 million, as well as for two seats on the library board, which will eventually be fully elected, according to Thomas Leghorn, vice president of the library's board.
If the library budget passes, it will increase New Rochelle city taxes by about 1.7 percent, or an average of $174 a year, according to the city's finance commissioner, Howard Rattner. 
If the budget proposal fails, however, there will be no more city money for the library, according to Mayor Timothy C. Idoni of New Rochelle, a Democrat. "If the vote doesn't pass, the library will close on June 30," he said. The city is having problems raising tax revenues because of the declining economy, he said, "and because we're the only city in New York State operating under a tax cap." 
New Rochelle's tax cap was put into effect in 1993, and prohibits city taxes from being raised more than the consumer price index. The cap was imposed in exchange for a 1 percent increase in sales tax, which brings in about $9 million a year, according to Charles B. Strome, the city manager. 
"I don't see a way that the city can maintain all public safety and public works services and continue to fund the library," Mr. Strome said, noting that the city's collection of fall leaves was completed only last month because of a shortage of maintenance workers.
Opponents of the library vote, a group formed by members of the Republican, Independence and Conservative Parties, call themselves The New Rochelle Public Library Coalition. They are sending information to residents by direct mail, e-mail and telephone, and have their own Web site (www.nrpl.info), according to Douglas A. Colety, chairman of the New Rochelle Republican Party. He said that voters have already spoken, twice, voting down the separate tax, and thus the city should continue to finance the library. Further, he said, whether there is a separate tax or not, the library's board should become fully elected immediately, or else the city will have taxation without representation. 
"The mayor is trying to use scare tactics by threatening to close the library," said Mr. Colety, who led a coalition boycott of the recent League of Women Voters' meeting because his group was not permitted to present an opposing viewpoint. 
"This is an attempt to circumvent the tax cap, and the city administration is behind the attempt to sneak this tax through," Mr. Colety added.
Mr. Idoni, for his part, dismisses that criticism. "There has been some political opportunism by my opponents, who see city finances as a weakness in this election year," he said. The mayoral and city council elections will be held in November; Mr. Idoni is expected to run again. 
The politicization of the library issue has greatly distressed library supporters, including Gayle Golomb, president of the League of Women Voters of New Rochelle and a native of the city.
"This is not political, it's a quality-of-life issue," she said. "We are already on an austerity budget in New Rochelle." 
Michael E. Boyle Jr. is one of two Republicans on the City Council who believes that the city should continue to finance the city's library.
"I wanted to keep the library in the city budget," Mr. Boyle said. He favors a phase-in agreement, whereby taxpayers could contribute increasing levels to the library, with the rest coming from New Rochelle, Westchester County and New York State.
Ms. Golomb, a former classmate and longtime friend of Mr. Boyle's, said she thinks he is fooling himself about the availability of extra money. "Money will not appear from the sky," she said. "There are no magic solutions after the vote." 
ON a chilly spring Saturday afternoon, though, there is little evidence of either warring factions or impending doom in the airy, light-filled $10 million library. The building, set in the heart of the city, is noisily abuzz with purposeful activity: a teenager, sucking a ring-pop, works at a table; an itchy toddler fidgets at a glass-encased computer terminal; a mother does research on her son's autism; five white-haired ladies wait at a table in the cafe for an afternoon concert. 
Some patrons were unaware of the potential threat to the library's fate and horrified to learn of it.
"That's ridiculous, I'm outraged," said Vencillia Williams, 30, an account manager who has lived in New Rochelle for three years.
Anthony Jones, a 9-year-old with neat cornrows, who knew about the library's problems because his grandmother works there, said: "I think it's unfair, because it's a good, good education for kids here. I don't have a computer at home, but I come here and type." 
Some library users said they thought someone would appear at the last minute to save the day, a modern-day municipal Mighty Mouse."I have a good feeling that it won't happen, the library cannot be closed, it will never be closed," said A.C. James, 41, an immigrant from India and New Rochelle resident who was visiting the library with his two children. "Politicians can always find money," he added, optimistically.
But officials say there is no money for the library, from the city or anywhere else.
"I'd like Bill Gates or Santa Claus to come through the doors with a big sack of money, but that's not going to happen," said Mr. Leghorn, the library trustee.
Mr. Strome, the city manager, agreed. "Quite frankly, despite what people are saying," he said, "there is no more money if the vote fails." 
New York State library regulations compound the library's financial problems. A library in a city the size of New Rochelle must be open at least 55 hours a week, which means that the library can't economize by reducing hours. In addition, if the library cannot prove that it has a continuous and stable source of financing, from the city, a separate tax or elsewhere, the Board of Regents could revoke the library's charter and it would have to close. In that event, New Rochelle residents will not be able to borrow materials from neighboring libraries as they can now, or any other libraries in the Westchester Library System, which have already applied to refuse borrowing privileges for New Rochelle residents, Mr. Farrell said.
"If you decided you didn't want to pay your mortgage, would your neighbors pay for you?" asked Mr. Farrell. "I know it's harsh, but it's the reality of the situation." 
Finally, there is ultimate anathema: a city without a library is a city with declining property values.
"I've received a number of phone calls from people with children who say that if the vote doesn't come out 'yes' they are putting their house on the market," said Frances Eisner, a real estate agent for 40 years with Oshlag-Eisner Realty Corporation in New Rochelle. 
New Rochelle library trustees, employees and supporters are crossing their fingers.
"Can we afford a library?" asked Peter Rothberg, library board president. "The real question is: Can we afford not to have a library in New Rochelle?" 

Overdue Book Fines Don't Pay the Bills
THE New Rochelle Public Library is not the only library in Westchester that is beset with money problems. 
"Since the dot-com bubble burst, library use has gone up continuously," said Maurice J. Freedman, director of the Westchester Library System. "If we were a corporation showing this kind of productivity and growth, there would be enormous bonuses and more people being hired. But instead, our budgets are being cut."
Village trustees asked Susan Riley, director of the Mount Kisco Public Library, to cut her budget by 8 percent this year. The roof on the building is collapsing and athe heating system is so inadequate that the library had to close several times this winter for lack of heat. Ms. Riley told the trustees that if the cuts were made, she would have to lay off employees and cut back on the library's hours, now open 63 hours a week.
In April, the trustees relented and restored full financing to the library. Plans for a much-needed new building, however, are still up in the air after eight years.
The Briarcliff Manor Public Library may be shut by New York State because it does not meet the minimum New York State standards for a community of 8,000. The place has just eight chairs, a closet-sized children's room, no meeting room and no access for the handicapped. The library's director, Geraldine Mahoney, said the library has been granted a waiver from New York State for the last five years to defer the requirements, but now faces losing its charter unless it builds a 9,000-square-foot addition, at a cost of $3.8 million. Some of the money for that project is tied to development plans for a private retirement center, which has pledged $2.75 million toward a new library. The village board will make a decision on the retirement center early this summer, Ms. Mahoney said.
Ossining, which has a school district library similar to New Rochelle's, hasn't turned down a library budget vote in more than a decade, said its director, Edward Falcone. Early this fall, however, residents are expected to vote a $15.8 million referendum to replace the old library with a new building on an adjoining lot. The five-member board, all of whom are appointed by the school district, has said this will raise taxes about $106 a year, according to Mr. Falcone. 
Mr. Falcone said he plans to "get the facts out there and hope for the best." CARIN RUBENSTEIN

GRAPHIC: Photos: With the New Rochelle Public Library's future in jeopardy, residents attended a meeting, insert, on the financing issue in City Council chambers at City Hall last month. Some library supporters at the meeting wore a button, left. A vote on June 3 will determine whether the library will survive. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); At the New Rochelle Library, exterior right, maintains a number of activities for patrons like A.C. James and his son, Michael, above. Anthony Jones, below right, uses the library's computer. Children read on the floor at a City Hall meeting on the future of the library. The New Rochelle library, the second busiest and among the oldest in Westchester, will turn to voters, for the third time, for a decision on a pared-down budget of $2.96 million. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LIBRARIES (91%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); LIBRARIANS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (70%); REFERENDUMS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%) LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFERENDUMS; TAXATION 

PERSON: RUBENSTEIN, CARIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW ROCHELLE (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



99 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Coming to America, Au Pairs Aren't Daunted

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO 

 BODY:
BRIGITTE EMILIA CROCOS had been a little concerned. Before she arrived in the United States last week to embark on her adventure as an au pair, Ms. Crocos, a 22-year-old German college student, called her host family in Bridgewater, N.J., to find out whether Germans are still welcome in the United States. She had also look up information about SARS on the Web site of the World Health Organization.
 "My house mom said Germans are still treated well here," said Ms. Crocos, who is in the United States for the first time. " And SARS? "There are not so many cases in America, and nobody has died from it," she said. 
 Despite the war in Iraq, which strained the United States' relation with many parts of the world, the economic woes and the galloping fear of SARS, au pairs from around the globe are still steadily arriving in the New York metropolitan area to experience a new culture. 
The au pair program at InterExchange, a Manhattan-based organization sponsoring international exchange programs including summer trips and camps, said that although their applications from au pairs dipped by 10 percent during the war, it has already picked up again. The organization receives more than 1,000 applications for au pair positions a year.
"We saw some hesitation," said Paul Christianson, the director of InterExchange. "It was more of wait and see. But we are now seeing a surge in au pair applications."
Applications from families requesting au pairs have remained constant, he said, explaining that the sagging economy can both deflate and inflate the demand for au pairs. Since the beginning of the year, InterExchange has received roughly 500 applications from families, a normal year, Mr. Christianson said.
It is true that some parents have become unemployed and thus no longer need au pairs to take care of their children, Mr. Christianson said, but some mothers have returned to the work force to maintain family income and now need live-in child care. Moreover, hiring an au pair is significantly less expensive than employing a full-time nanny, making sponsoring an au pair an attractive choice in hard economic times.
While having a full-time nanny can cost up to $500 a week, a host family pays an au pair $140 a week -- an amount set by the State Department, which regulates the au pair industry -- and a onetime fee of roughly $5,000 to cover the au pair's transportation to and from her home country, health insurance and orientation in the United States.
Other major players in the au pair business in the New York metropolitan area, like the Boston-based Cultural Care and Stamford-based Au Pair in America, also said they have seen little fluctuation in the volume of their applications this spring.
"For the most part, our au pairs know that the war is quite separate from their experience here," said Samantha Janney, a spokeswoman for Cultural Care, which receives about 4,200 au pair applications a year. "We haven't seen any unhappy au pair who wants to go home early."
Dabeth Faure, a 21-year-old French au pair living in Briarcliff Manor, was aware that French fries had become freedom fries and French toast freedom toast at some places in the nation. But for her, the war felt perceptible only when neighbors, half teasing, half serious, gave her well-meaning advice.
"People say: 'Don't say you are from France. Say you are from Italy,"' she recalled, chuckling. "I was, like, 'Sure, I'll say I am from Italy.' Nobody has asked me my opinions."
Ms. Faure said she supported the position her country took, but describing herself as rather apolitical, said she hasn't discussed the war with anyone, including her host family.
Florence Helin, another French au pair, has. "I agree with Chirac," said Ms. Helin, who lives with a family at Oyster Bay in Nassau, referring to President Jacques Chirac of France, "and my host family agrees with Chirac. The war felt far away."
But Ms. Crocos, the newly arrived German au pair, is not among those opposed to the war in Iraq. "Saddam had been a dictator for 20 years, and you simply had to do something," she said. "In the Second World War, if the Americans didn't do something, maybe Hitler would still be around."
When she called her host family to find out whether there is any backlash against French and Germans, Debbie Kulak, her host, gave the question serious thought.
"When I talk to people, I find there are some people who really don't like the French right now," she said. "I would have some question about whether a French au pair would feel entirely comfortable here. But Germany? No. It doesn't come up at all.
"I am not real pleased with what the French did," she added. "But I would not not like a French au pair because of that. Absolutely not. We are not prejudiced people."
For her part, Ms. Crocos, blonde with an easy smile, is making an effort not to hold any prejudice against Americans. She has brought with her a printout about erroneous stereotypes about Americans she found on the Internet. What's on the list?
"Americans are snobbish, superficial and wealthy."
Ms. Crocos chuckled, and upon discovering that she is a loyal fan of "Sex and City," the popular series on HBO, the coordinators from InterExchange warned her that not all Manhattan women have many boyfriends at the same time.
But on the warm spring day when Ms. Crocos arrived among two dozen au pairs -- most from Europe and a few from South America -- at the New Yorker Hotel in Manhattan where they stayed for the first night, the war and SARS were not what was on their minds. Instead, it was which channel shows "Felicity," another popular television show, and whether any of the protagonists in "Sex and City" eventually gets married.
It was only when a reporter asked the group whether they were scared of SARS that the au pairs seemed to remember the contagious disease commandeering the news media around the globe.
"I am not afraid," Anne-Claire Roset, a French girl who will become an au pair with a family in Cheshire, Conn., said in hesitant English. "I have confidence in life."
Then, slowly but earnestly, she added, "I am a fatalist, so I am not afraid."
Most of her companions seemed to share her confidence, and Mr. Christianson, who has met thousands of au pairs, commented: "We deal with 20-, 21-year olds. When you are 21, you think you are indestructible."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A group of au pairs, newly arrived in the United States: from right, Brigitte Emilia Crocos, Heidi Van den Brack, Nathalie Burg and Anne-Claire Roset. Joanne Malkin conducts an orientation for au pairs at the New Yorker Hotel in Manhattan. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); IRAQ WAR (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%) CHILD CARE; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: AU PAIR IN AMERICA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: ZHAO, YILU 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



100 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Fund-Raisers Face A Drop in Dollars 

BYLINE:  BY CAROLINE B. SMITH

 BODY:
IN Nassau and Suffolk counties, local merchants, major corporations and not-for-profit agencies are searching for new ways to make charitable dollars go as far as possible. That's particularly important when there are fewer of those dollars to go around. 
 Maryann Slutsky, director of financial development for the Nassau County chapter of the American Red Cross, said donations were down 50 percent in the last 18 months, adding that while individual donations remain steady, corporations are cutting back. 
 "You have to be much more creative and tenacious in soliciting the donor," she said. "Especially on Long Island, because we have so many not-for-profits and a lot of the big corporations are no longer there, they're moving out. It's just become an incredible struggle." 
For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2001, the Nassau chapter raised $1.8 million. For the fiscal year ending in June 2002, it raised almost $1.7 million, not counting donations earmarked for victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But in the current fiscal year, the fund-raising goal is only $1.1 million.
The decline is a reaction, she said, "to a very slowed economy, the war and the uncertainty in the world right now." 
She also said that the Red Cross had suffered what she called "negative branding" for a couple of months when people learned that money donated after Sept. 11 was not all going to victims of the terrorist attacks. 
In response to criticism of that decision, the Red Cross developed a program called Donor Direct, Ms. Slutsky said. It uses very specific language in fund-raising solicitations so donors know exactly where their gifts will go and the donor intent is reiterated in the Red Cross acknowledgment.
The Children's Medical Fund in New Hyde Park depends on fund-raising events for 85 percent or approximately $1.2 million of its annual revenue. The money is used to support Schneider Children's Hospital, part of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. 
Talking about corporate donors, Valerie Schultz, the fund's managing director, said: "If they can only support a certain number of things, they will really look at the projects and evaluate which of these projects has the most impact on the community. It's only because of a few committed people that we have been able to maintain our numbers." 
Symbol Technologies in Holtsville is one of the corporations on the other side of the giving equation. Patricia Sileo, a company spokeswoman, said there had been a significant increase in requests for charitable donations since Sept. 11. She suggested that it would be helpful for not-for-profits to band together in support of one goal or program, and then approach corporations. "We want to make sure that the money goes to a specific program, so we're looking much more closely at earmarking our dollars for specific programs," Ms. Sileo said.
The consortium concept was echoed by Lisa Platania, a spokeswoman for Computer Associates in Islandia, who said the company had not reduced its donations but was allocating its resources differently. "We're giving fewer gifts of a larger amount to have more of an impact," she said. Ms. Platania said Computer Associates is working with organizations that have teamed up to address the issue of gang violence in Central Islip. 
At Cablevision, Bill Powers, director of media relations, declined to discuss the company's charitable contributions, but noted that the company provides free advertising to about 50 community groups each year. "That's a $1 million-a-year commitment by Cablevision on Long Island," Mr. Powers said. 
Along the Main Streets of the Island, local merchants say they will continue to contribute to their local community for as long as the economy permits. Rachel DeMolfetto, a co-owner of the Racine Salon de Beaute and Spa in Islip, says she supports local schools and charities with journal ads, gift certificates and donations ranging in value from $25 to $200. "You want to be able to keep fund-raising and give because it is important in terms of needy causes, but in financial down times, people may not feel as generous or could be as generous as they would like to be," Ms. DeMolfetto said.
Mona Margolis, owner of Sag Harbor Florist, said she gave about $10,000 annually in floral arrangements to organizations that improve the quality of life locally. "I may be forced to cut back because business is quiet out here right now. I'm going to try to keep donating as much as I have before. As long as the numbers look good, I'm not going to cut back," said Mrs. Margolis. 
Owners of the Book Revue, a bookstore in Huntington, say that despite the current economy, they give to 80 percent to 90 percent of the organizations -- most of them from the local community -- that solicit. "We've always tried to give to the ones that are the most important, most needy or closest to our heart, and have had to say no to those who can come up with money elsewhere," said Richard Klein, the store's co-owner. "It's hard to give money to a group that we feel has access to sources of income when you have groups like the homeless people and veterans organizations to give to." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



101 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2141 words

HEADLINE: Stuck in Last Place 

BYLINE:  By VIVIAN S. TOY

DATELINE: NORTH AMITYVILLE 

 BODY:
WHEN Irwin and Delores Quintyne decided to move from their cramped apartment in a Harlem housing project to the suburbs in 1961, like many other blacks from the city they found their way to North Amityville.
 At the time, they say, they did not realize they were moving to a community that was more than 75 percent black, a segregated place that would in many ways be different from the rest of Suffolk County. 
 "We didn't see it at the time, but it became clear pretty quick that we wound up here by design," Mr. Quintyne said. "We didn't get service like other parts of town. Like if it snowed, we'd be the last to get dug out." 
Once it dawned on them that North Amityville, an unincorporated hamlet in the Town of Babylon, was separate and not equal to primarily white communities in Suffolk County, the Quintynes became local activists who pushed for more attention to North Amityville's concerns.
In the last 40 years, they have seen North Amityville go from a solidly middle-class community to an impoverished high-crime area so plagued by drugs and violence that in the 1980's a television network ranked the hamlet's main intersection as one of the nation's top 10 drug markets. The last 15 years have seen a slow reversal of the economic and social blight. But throughout it all one thing has remained constant: North Amityville has stayed a minority community.
"It's never bothered me being in a segregated community," said Mr. Quintyne, 76. "I just came in, made myself at home and I got involved. But it's been a long struggle to make things better for my community."
North Amityville is one of 13 "basic minority communities" that have existed on Long Island since 1960, according to Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. His review of census data shows that the same communities that county planners initially referred to as "racial ghettoes" with high percentages of Negroes in 1960 continue to exist today.
Despite the various federal and local laws that have been passed since 1960 to fight racial discrimination in housing, the patterns of segregation that took hold on Long Island in the first half of the 20th century remain unchanged. In addition to North Amityville, the minority communities include Wyandanch, Central Islip, Gordon Heights, Flanders, Brentwood, North Bellport and North Bay Shore in Suffolk County, and Hempstead, Freeport, Roosevelt, New Cassel and Uniondale in Nassau County.
The persistence of these communities reinforces the findings of a study released last year that accorded Long Island the dubious distinction of being the most segregated suburb in the nation. And while that study showed that Long Island overall is not quite as segregated as it was in the 1980's, the 13 communities show that in one important way, the Island remains as segregated as it was more than 40 years ago.
"There's been virtually no movement towards becoming a more integrated society," Dr. Koppelman said. "There's always going to be a certain amount of voluntary segregation. You find it in all ethnic communities. But with African-Americans it's been pretty much the result of basic racism and what you have is an almost enforced apartheid."
Dr. Koppelman said that once a neighborhood has been established as a minority community, even federal laws intended to discourage segregation "can't do anything to un-establish it."
David Rusk, the Washington-based consultant on urban and suburban policy who found Long Island to be the country's most segregated suburb, agreed that it was not unusual to find minority communities staying unchanged over time. He analyzed Long Island's segregation patterns for Erase Racism, a group sponsored by the Long Island Community Foundation. "There are only a very few instances where you would find significant numbers of white people moving into black neighborhoods," he said, adding that it would tend to happen in areas of gentrification close to cities and in historic neighborhoods.
Because most of the housing in North Amityville and other black communities on Long Island dates to the 1940's and 1950's, he said, "their housing stock is too old to be competitive and too young to be quaint" and therefore unlikely to attract white residents in large numbers.
Suburban minority settlements across the country follow similar patterns, according to John R. Logan, director of the Lewis Mumford Center for Comparative Urban and Regional Research at the State University of New York at Albany. "They are created very much as a result of the exclusion from most suburbs," he said. "Then once they're established, future minority migration is concentrated there because the mere fact that they are the few places where minorities are welcome makes them a magnet."
Despite the fact that North Amityville and the 12 other minority communities have changed little in their racial makeup, the communities have not remained totally static since 1960. Most have grown significantly, mirroring the Island's development and population growth in the last 40 years.
North Amityville has doubled in population from 8,366 in 1960 to 16,572 in 2000. In 1960, North Amityville was a largely middle-class community that was 76 percent black, the largest minority population in the county. The median family income was about $5,100 a year, significantly higher than the average for Suffolk County, which was only $4,653.
In 2000, the community's population was 86 percent minority, with a growing Hispanic community accounting for about 13.5 percent of that. The median family income was one of the lowest in Suffolk County, $49,901, compared to $72,112 for the county overall. 
Mr. Quintyne said he had been drawn to North Amityville by the ads that ran in local Harlem newspapers in the 1950's and 1960's and by word of mouth from friends. He also remembers that other growing Long Island communities, Levittown in particular, made it clear that they didn't want blacks.
"I didn't like the idea that we weren't able to go where we wanted to, especially after I came out of the service," said Mr. Quintyne, who was a Navy seaman during World War II. "But after we got here and got acclimated, we were satisfied." And why not? North Amityville gave the Quintynes their own slice of suburbia, a place where they could leave their doors unlocked and not worry about their children playing in the streets.
But in less than 10 years, the community started to go into serious decline. In 1968, county planning officials declared North Amityville a high poverty area and the regional planning board issued a report that described it as a place with failing businesses and an abundance of "once-sound homes" that had "become dilapidated beyond rehabilitation."
The planning board developed a plan that would turn North Amityville into a model suburban community, complete with a commercial center and a mix of new single-family homes and apartment complexes. But the plan remained just that, a plan. "Nothing came of it," Mr. Quintyne said. "The town just wasn't interested in doing anything that would benefit our community."
Leonard Canton, chairman of the North Amityville Community Economic Council, attributed the 20 years of decline that started in the late 1960's to an exodus of middle-class blacks. "When people feel affluent, they leave for wherever affluence will take them," he said. "Our community failed to thrive because we failed to stay." By 1970, the median family income in North Amityville, at $9,759, had become one of the lowest in Suffolk County, where the median was $12,084.
"Black flight" from changing minority suburban communities is a common phenomenon, said Hugh A. Wilson, a political science professor at Adelphi University who studies race and politics. "As soon as poor blacks started moving into these communities, middle-class blacks started moving out and moving into quasi-integrated communities," he said, communities that are predominantly white but have areas that are primarily minority.
By the late 1960's, North Amityville's main commercial zone, at the intersection of Great Neck and Albany Roads, had become an open-air drug market known as The Corner. Drug dealers plied their wares openly to drive-up customers in cars with license plates from as far away as New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania. The drug trade thrived there through the crack epidemic of the 1980's.
"Drugs turned that corner into a pit," Mrs. Quintyne said. "And we had so many people die from there. It seemed like every week we were burying somebody who had been killed because of drugs."
Drugs took the Quintynes' eldest son, Irwin Jr., who died in 1986 after years of drug addiction, which his parents say he first developed when he was a teenager growing up in North Amityville. During the 1970's, the Quintynes and other community activists would sometimes march at The Corner with picket signs in a desperate attempt to take back their streets. Mr. Quintyne also started a drug rehabilitation program in one of the buildings at The Corner.
"We were threatened from time to time," Mr. Quintyne said. "But I would just say, 'You stay on your side and we'll stay on ours."'
The Quintynes and other community leaders attribute the hamlet's continued decline to the Republican-dominated town and county governments of the time, saying they paid scant attention to North Amityville's needs because most residents voted Democratic. 
"We had literally no representation in town hall when I first got out here 38 years ago," said the Rev. Robert Burgess, pastor of Grace Community Church. Despite community opposition, it seemed that factories and industrial businesses were allowed to build in the middle of residential areas, he said. 
Maxine Postal, the County Legislature's presiding officer, is a Democrat from Amityville, and she agreed that it wasn't until Democrats took control of town hall and county government in 1988 that North Amityville started on its road to recovery. The dilapidated shopping strip at The Corner was demolished in 1989, parks were refurbished and a new senior center was built. "The Republicans sat on their hands for years and their attitude was it wasn't worth it to work for these people because they wouldn't get their votes anyway," she said.
But Republicans who were in power in the 1970's and early 1980's said their administrations did try to improve conditions in North Amityville.
"I don't believe for a minute there was a concerted effort to not help North Amityville," said Harry Withers, a former Babylon town board member and Republican town leader. "But segregation and the economic problems that come with it have to do with societal problems that are way beyond the abilities of local government to change."
John V.N. Klein, a Republican who wasSuffolk county executive in the 1970's, said Republican leaders used to write off black communities as Democratic strongholds but have worked hard in the last 20 years to woo their support. "But it takes a long time to convince people who have felt that they have been neglected by a political party to turn that around," he said.
Mr. Klein also said that North Amityville's plight "was not a phenomenon limited to areas that lie under Republican control. To the contrary, many urban areas where these same problems exist have always been under Democratic control."
Mr. Quintyne and other community leaders have argued for years that the only way to avoid neglect is to turn North Amityville into an incorporated village. "If we want to control what comes into our community, we have to take our destiny in our own hands," Mr. Quintyne said.
An early attempt at incorporation in the 1970's failed for lack of support, but a new North Amityville Incorporation Committee was created in 1998 and recently completed a feasibility study.
"Incorporation would significantly improve the economic status of the community," said Ivan Young, the committee's chairman. Commercial tax dollars that now go to the town would instead go to North Amityville, as would state and federal grants aimed at helping areas of poverty, he said. "But the important thing is we would finally have more of a say in our community," he said.
Mr. Rusk, the consultant for Erase Racism, said, however, that incorporation might not be the answer to North Amityville's problems. "Considerable national research has shown that the more fragmented local government is, the more it is related to higher degrees of economic and racial segregation," he said.
Mr. Quintyne said incorporation might easily keep North Amityville a segregated community. "But we may well still be a minority community 40 years from now even if we don't incorporate," he said. "I just want North Amityville to become a full-fledged community and it would be nice if it could be one of the communities that people want to move into again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A STUDY last year found the Island to be the most segregated suburb in the nation. One of the many minority communities is North Amityville, which Irwin and Delores Quintyne moved to from Harlem in 1961, expecting a better life; instead, they say, they found neglect. (Photographs by Kevin P. Coughlin/Photostation for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (89%); SUBURBS (89%); RANKINGS (87%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); COUNTIES (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



102 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Through Ink and Brush, A Melding of Traditions

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO 

DATELINE: Newark 

 BODY:
CHINESE artists are riding a full, frothy wave of enthusiasm across the United States. Museums everywhere are mounting surveys of their work, while commercial galleries, more than ever, are clambering to offer them shows. One or two sly patrons have even begun to build collections of contemporary Chinese art.
 Although this would seem to bode well for Chinese artists born in this country, or those who have lived here for some time, this loose-knit group is still a smallish blimp on the curatorial radar. Few, if any, have been included in surveys of contemporary Chinese art, while only a handful have commercial gallery representation. 
 In this context, it is good to see the Newark Museum staging a modest but timely exhibition of Chinese artists living in New York and New Jersey. "A Brush With History: Contemporary Artists and Chinese Tradition" presents the work of Er Tai Gao, Yun-Fei Ji, Zhang Hongtu and Nina Kuo, four artists who see themselves as Chinese-Americans. The show is about the broader meaning of this hyphenated existence.
Many Chinese artists have been inspired by the technically advanced but stylistically moribund tradition of ink-and-brush painting. Mr. Ji is one of them, his paintings blending imagery of graceful landscapes with helicopter crashes and ghoulish creatures engaged in gun battles and other violent acts. It is an exciting, surreal, mix.
Mr. Ji, born in China, has lived in the United States since 1986. He is probably the most successful of the artists in this show, having received many grants and prizes. He was recently honored with a solo exhibition at the Pratt Institute Gallery in New York, from which the Museum of Modern Art bought two of his paintings. Or at least that is the rumor going around New York. 
No painting in the show is more dynamic than his "The Move in Ba Don" (2002), which tells the story of the construction of a dam in southern China. Although difficult to see, careful inspection of this delicate painting reveals, at top, a building falling down and some villagers fleeing, while down below floats a group of spirit-like figures, perhaps officials. The suggestion is that creation of the dam will destroy a village. It's an allegory of modernization in China.
Nearby, Mr. Gao's paintings blend ancient Chinese Buddhist cave paintings with his autobiographical poetry. Writing and painting are tightly bound together in these works, the elegant, energetic characters of his calligraphy complementing the shadowy and almost meditative landscape imagery. These works are about memory and loss.
But Mr. Gao is more of a writer than a painter. In 1957, he published a book, with the seemingly inoffensive title "On Beauty," for which he was sentenced to hard labor at a prison camp in the Gobi Desert in northwestern China. He survived, only to be imprisoned again during the Cultural Revolution and then prohibited from writing. He escaped to the United States in 1992, where he was granted political asylum.
Comparisons have been made between the arrival of large numbers of Chinese artists and writers in New York in the 1980's and 1990's, and the mass migration of the European avant-garde before World War II. There are similarities, although not all the Chinese that came here during this period were fleeing persecution. Like other migrants, they were also seeking economic opportunity and a better life.
Mr. Zhang, 60, was one of the first artists of his generation to move to the United States. Trained in calligraphy, ink painting and socialism at the Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing, Mr. Zhang appears content to make a peacock-like show of his considerable artistic talents, painting zany mixtures of traditional Chinese landscape painting and the work of European impressionist and post-impressionist masters.
Mr. Zhang's daring collisions of painting styles and subject matter have the explosive energy of a pyrotechnic display, and just as much color. "Shi Tao Van Gogh" (1998) fuses elements from the work of Chinese master Shi Tao with the luridly colored cypresses and iridescent landscape of Van Gogh's "The Starry Night." Encrusted with familiarity, yet strange, the image exudes a comfortless beauty. Therein lies its power. 
Ms. Kuo is the one artist in the exhibition born in the United States. It shows, for her paintings are all about coming to terms with a displaced cultural heritage. This takes the form of painterly playbacks of exotic imagery of Chinese-ness once popular in the West, like pictures of girls with pigtails eating noodles. The idea's a bit lame, although there is a lovely effulgence of color to the paintings that I like. No, I like it a lot.
"A Brush With History: Contemporary Artists and Chinese Tradition" is at the Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street, through July 6. Information: (973)596-6550.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yun-Fei Ji's "The Move in Ba Don," left, Nina Kuo's "Han Dynasty Ladies, Spam and Electric Fan," right, and Zhang Hongtu's "Shi-Tao van Gogh" are on display at the Newark Museum. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (79%); ART COLLECTING (78%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (77%); POETRY (71%); WRITERS (67%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (61%); PRISONS (61%); JAIL SENTENCING (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); SENTENCING (60%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%); HELICOPTERS (51%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (51%); RELIGION (50%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: NEWARK MUSEUM 

PERSON: GENOCCHIO, BENJAMIN; GAO, ER TAI; JI, YUN-FEI; ZHANG HONGTU; KUO, NINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GOBI DESERT (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



103 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & COMPANY; 
With the Caps Lifting, Electric Bills to Rise

BYLINE:  By JOHN SULLIVAN 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
IF New Jersey residents think they are going to be sweating this August, wait until they open their electric bills. 
 Every New Jersey utility company has told the state Board of Public Utilities that it will be asking for a rate increase to go into effect Aug. 1, when state-imposed caps come off electric bills, ranging from a 14.5 percent increase for Rockland Electric, which serves Bergen, Passaic and Sussex Counties, to a 5.5 percent increase for Atlantic City Electric, which has about 500,000 customers in South Jersey. 
 The state's largest utility, PSE&G, which serves 2 million customers in the state, has notified the board that it will ask for a 13.8 percent increase for its residential customers, raising the average residential customer's electrical bill about $96 per year.
With the state facing what James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, calls a "long, shallow recovery" and a "half-speed-ahead economy," public advocates contend that the hefty increases are unwarranted. 
"Consumers are paying for the failure of deregulation to deliver cheaper rates," Dena Mottola, executive director of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group, said last week.
Before the early 1990's -- when most utilities had their last rate rise -- the electric companies typically requested increases every two to four years.
Under the law that deregulated New Jersey's electric power market in 1999, the utilities accepted a four-year rate cap, plus an automatic reduction in prices charged to customers. This came at a cost to the utilities, which had to buy electric power on the open market but could not pass any increases along to customers. The four years are up Aug. 1, and the utilities now have the right to return to the Board of Public Utilities and seek permission to pass along any reasonable losses that were incurred.
Seema M. Singh, the state's Ratepayer Advocate -- the state official appointed to represent consumers before the Board of Public Utilities -- acknowledges that most of the utilities have the right to some rate increases, though she contends that the amounts they are requesting are too high.
"Based upon our review and analysis, utilities are asking for some costs that we believe should be paid for by the shareholders," Ms. Singh said last week. "Webelieve some of the costs were not prudently incurred and these costs should not be passed to consumers."
As a result, Ms. Singh filed legal papers disputing some of the costs claimed by the utilities, and in July the board is scheduled to review the arguments, along with the opinions of administrative law judges, and rule on the proposed increases.
Kristen Baird, a spokeswoman for FirstEnergy, the Ohio-based company that owns Jersey Central Power and Light, said a preliminary audit by the utilities board had already found that many of her company's claims were substantiated. Ms. Baird said the company, which has proposed a 6.1 percent increase for its one million residential customers in central New Jersey, believes the amount is justified.
"These costs were prudently incurred," she said. "We feel we had an obligation, we fulfilled it, and what we are requesting is reasonable and prudent."
Mark Sperduto, an executive working on legislative and regulatory affairs for PSE&G, contends that deregulation will save customers money even if the rate increases are approved by the utilities board, since they saved money during the life of the four-year cap.
"Overall," Mr. Sperduto said, "we think that we are still going to have rate levels that are below those when restructuring began. In addition to that, we provided rate discounts of $1.4 billion over the four-year transition period. From the consumer point of view, this is a pretty good deal."
Consumer groups are not so sure. Ms. Mottola of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group said that because the utilities were pushing for deregulation four years ago, the electric companies rather than the customers should now have to pay any costs sustained because of deregulation.
Ms. Mottola said one of the cornerstone arguments in favor of deregulation was that it would allow for greater competition among companies and greater choice for consumers, inevitably leading to lower prices.
In fact, she said, most residents chose to remain with their utility companies because there was little viable competition.
"We still have none of the conditions that would have empowered the customer, such as competition," she said. "The big utilities still have the state locked up."
If anything, said Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, deregulation has not provided competition, but has added another layer of costs to the system.
"Before, they owned their own production and the plants were paid for," Mr. Tittel said. "Now, somebody else has to run them."
Historically, New Jersey has had some of the highest electric rates in the country, in large part because the state has no natural sources of electric power such as hydroelectric dams or large coal fields to run power grids. By 1995, the state had the fourth-highest rates in the country, and businesses were pleading for relief.
The state Legislature passed several measures to deal with electric power. The last and most comprehensive was the 100-page Electric Discount and Energy Competition Act in February 1999. The law, which officially ended electricity regulation in August 1999, capped rates for four years and gave consumers automatic rate reductions of at least 10 percent.
Proponents believed that opening New Jersey's power market to other companies would lead to competition and savings. New Jersey belongs to a giant power grid that stretches through Pennsylvania and Maryland, and under the deregulation plan any company could purchase electric power on the grid and sell it to consumers.
On the positive side, thegrid, known as the PJM system, was one of the best in the country, and New Jersey was spared the negative side effects of deregulation seen in other parts of the country. There were no huge price spikes or rolling blackouts.
But the state's timing was off. Just as deregulation went into effect, natural gas prices skyrocketed, driving up the wholesale cost of electric power. 
Nonetheless, economists do not believe a rate increase this summer will be much of a drag on the state's weak economy. Joseph J. Seneca, a vice president at Rutgers and chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisors, said the higher rates were probably offset by the savings seen by consumers over the last few years.
"Deregulation has capped rates for the last several years and that has certainly benefited consumers," Mr. Seneca said. "This is a catch-up."
He added: "I would not anticipate a significant impact on the economy given a four- to five-year period to view it over."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Seema M. Singh, below, the state's Ratepayer Advocate, says most utilities deserve some rate increases. (Wanderlan P. Silva, above, and Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (72%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); JUDGES (50%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: JERSEY CENTRAL POWER & LIGHT CO (60%); FIRSTENERGY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP 

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (60%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%)

PERSON: MOTTOLA, DENA; SINGH, SEEMA; SULLIVAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



104 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: When Schools Feel the Budget Ax 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "Teaching Kids a Lesson" (column, May 1), Bob Herbert reports that even citizens of the relatively enlightened state of Oregon won't vote for the taxes needed to support schools. 
 Why are we surprised? For years, irresponsible politicians have been seeking votes on the premise that tax cuts are good regardless of the state of the economy and that raising taxes for any reason is somehow un-American. We are repeatedly told that the trappings of civilization do not need to be paid for.
This may be a cheap way to win votes in the short term, but the long-term outcome will be a country lacking educational opportunities and adequate health care.

DAVID KESSEL
Birmingham, Mich., May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX LAW (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (54%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: KESSEL, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



105 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: When Schools Feel the Budget Ax 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Someone reading Bob Herbert's May 1 column might think that Oregon's schools are a disaster, budgets have been cut and the Legislature is leaving Oregon students adrift. 
While it is true that the schools feel shortchanged in the budget process, the schools are far from poor. 
 Teachers in Oregon have a compensation package, adjusted for cost of living, that puts them in the top tier of educators in the country. For many years the Legislature has supplemented local district tax revenue with increasing appropriations. Property tax revenue and appropriations from the Legislature over the last 10 years have provided increases that far exceed the rate of inflation.
It is unfortunate that hard economic times have cut the rate of growth. Our schools are still a success and will continue to serve the students.

JIM CASTERLINE
Gearhart, Ore., May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); COST OF LIVING (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); INFLATION (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: CASTERLINE, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) OREGON

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



106 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: When Schools Feel the Budget Ax 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert (column, May 1) describes the tragic situation with Oregon schools and the state's economy. But descriptions of the economy don't take into account the wide economic disparity that has developed in Oregon over the last 10 years or so. 
 While much of the state suffers, there are also large and growing pockets of the wealthy elite. In Portland, for example, new and very expensive boutiques, restaurants and other playgrounds for the rich open every other week. 
While Oregon has always had a share of wealthy folks, this number has grown in the past years with an influx of newcomers from the East Coast and California. There are now more Jaguars in a few blocks than I can remember seeing in the whole city of Portland a few years ago. And yet Portland itself is proposing a tax just to support the schools here even as the rich get richer.
I was born in a small town in eastern Oregon and still have roots there. After living in New York, Maine and Massachusetts, I came back to Oregon two years ago and have yet to figure out the current status of my home state. It's a tragedy, all right, and people are struggling, but for many Oregonians, the newest martini bar kind of dulls the pain.

MOLLY LARSON COOK
Portland, Ore., May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RESTAURANTS (70%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: COOK, MOLLY LARSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (96%); MAINE, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) OREGON

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



107 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: INSIDE BASEBALL; 
Beginning of Season Is Rocky for Astros

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
On the field and off, this was not the way the season was supposed to begin for the Houston Astros. Instead of congratulating themselves on a solid first month and looking at the world from atop the National League Central, the Astros at week's end were trying to figure their way out of an on-field tailspin and a domestic violence accusation.
 They found it far easier to deal with the latter than the former. In the hours after shortstop Julio Lugo was arrested and charged with assault-family violence Wednesday night, they designated him for assignment, meaning they had 10 days to release, trade or sell him, or assign him to the minor leagues. 
 The Astros will not assign Lugo to the minors. "That is an option, but I do not believe that will be one of the choices," General Manager Gerry Hunsicker said. "He needs to try to continue his career elsewhere. It's too bad. He was a good kid here and he was continuing to make some progress as a player. Sometimes life isn't fair, but we have to try to make the best decision under the circumstances." 
The decision to jettison the 27-year-old Lugo, a Brooklyn resident who was in his fourth season with the Astros, was not wholly a result of the alleged assault of his wife, Mabel, Hunsicker said. But barely three hours before the Astros made the move, they issued a statement on domestic violence without mentioning Lugo.
"The Astros organization is acutely aware of the issues surrounding domestic violence, and we completely support the steps necessary to deal with it," the statement said. "We disapprove of any violence; it is unacceptable. We are a family game with family values. The Astros family represents honesty, integrity and family values. We have no tolerance or acceptance for anything outside those values."
Lugo, of course, has not been convicted of punching his wife in the face and slamming her head against a car, as she has alleged. (The couple are said to be divorcing.) "He's been arraigned, tried and convicted in the last 24 hours," a lawyer who represents players said.
But the Astros linked Lugo's dismissal to their problems on the field, which have been considerable for a team some picked to win the division.
"The question of shortstop has been raised as a position that needs to be improved," Hunsicker said. "Internally we had discussed the possibility of making a change there. We felt it was in his best interest and our best interest to make a change."
Lugo, a .269 career hitter, was hitting .246 when he was lopped off the roster.
"We wanted to make it clear this action was not taken solely because of the domestic incident," Hunsicker said. "We didn't want to send the message that we were judging him prematurely or taking sides. We said this type of incident is a very serious issue that we don't condone.
"When a player is involved in a situation like this, right or wrong, fair or unfair, he is implicated. It's very difficult in most cases for most players to continue playing in the same environment because of the publicity that accompanies it, and it's difficult for a player to perform."
Many of the Astros (13-16) have had difficulty performing this season. That is why they find themselves in fourth place in the division after last night's 5-2 victory over Florida, struggling to keep up with the Cubs and the Cardinals. Starting pitching has particularly posed a problem.
"We figured to have question marks at the back end of the rotation, but the two horses aren't pulling the wagon," Hunsicker said. He referred to Roy Oswalt (33-12 the previous two seasons) and Wade Miller (31-12 the previous two seasons).
"I don't know what's going on with Miller," Hunsicker said. Miller has not won any of his six starts, losing three.
Oswalt had a 2-3 record. "Oswalt has looked better recently, but he hasn't been close to his dominant self," Hunsicker said. "When the two horses up front aren't giving you any consistency, it compounds things."
The Astros moved Friday to bolster their rotation, returning the rookie Jeriome Robertson (1-3) to the minors and summoning Kirk Saarloos to replace him. They also recalled Adam Everett to replace Lugo, and he responded in his first game Friday night with a single, a triple and a run batted in, half of Lugo's R.B.I. total.
But the Astros have other problems offensively, especially with Craig Biggio (.250) and Lance Berkman (.226) each struggling. "Everybody has contributed," Hunsicker said.

Attendance in Doldrums
They can blame it on the economy and the weather and anything else they want, but baseball officials cannot escape the continued slump in attendance. The average crowd of 24,390 through April 30 was the lowest since the comparable 1991 average, 24,626.
The early-season attendance is down for the second successive season, plummeting 14.4 percent over two seasons. This year's drop was 4.95 percent.
Officials have apparently become sensitive to the decline. Missing from the daily major league attendance report available to the news media are figures from last season.

Expanded Playoffs?
Baseball and union officials will discuss later this year the possibility of adding wild-card teams to the playoffs.
As part of the agreement that calls for the outcome of the All-Star Game to determine home-field advantage for the World Series, a management-player committee will begin discussions after this season's All-Star Game on other All-Star and postseason issues for the 2005 season and beyond. One item that will be on the committee's agenda is the addition of wild-card teams, creating another playoff series. 
Baseball resisted the wild-card concept until 1995, when each league added the second-place team with the best record. In 1997, the wild-card Florida Marlins won the World Series, and last year the Series matched wild-card teams, Anaheim and San Francisco, for the first time.
The committee is also expected to discuss seeding all teams in the playoffs, awarding home field in the World Series to the team with the better record and changing the division series from three of five games to four of seven games.
One All-Star matter that will be considered is the change of the game from National League versus American League to United States players versus international players. That idea seems to have significant appeal among players.
Even in the end, the players were not wild about accepting the link of the All-Star Game to the Series.
"I don't think initially we thought it was the greatest of ideas, and I'm still not sure we think it is," Tom Glavine of the Mets, the National League player representative, said. "But there's enough people on their side that felt it was a good idea that would help the process, would help the game. We'll try it. If it helps the game, then great, we'll be the first ones to admit it.
"I think we all would've preferred home-field advantage be decided by regular-season schedule, but for whatever reason that idea didn't work or wasn't going to be part of the equation, so we'll see how this works. Everybody will give it a couple of years to see how it goes, and if it works out well, like I said, we'll be the first ones to say, 'Hey great idea.' "

Here's to You, Mr. Robinson
Not that Frank Robinson had any doubts once he made the decision, but the Montreal Expos are demonstrating with their effort why he made the right move in returning as manager for a second season. He had initially said he would manage the Expos for only one season.
"When I said it was only going to be one year, the idea was this club wasn't going to be in existence this year, and I wasn't using last year to look for another job some place else," Robinson said. 
Once it was determined that the Expos would stay alive, Robinson returned for two reasons.
"No. 1 they asked me to come back," he said. "The second thing is I thought about it and thought I'd like to come back. The way the players played last year, the attitude and the effort they gave me and what we were successful in doing, having a winning season for the first time since '96 and finishing in second place, just the work habits and the enthusiasm, I felt something special was going to happen here and I wanted to be a part of it. This job was only half-finished last year. This club is going to be in existence for a few years to come. I just wanted to be part of it this year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Houston's Roy Oswalt is 2-3 this season with a 3.86 E.R.A. after going 33-12 the past two seasons. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); FAMILY (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); ARRESTS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (63%) BASEBALL; FINANCES; PLAYOFF GAMES 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS (94%) HOUSTON ASTROS 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



108 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVE LIFE; 
Near the Top, Hiring Prospects Brighten

BYLINE:  By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU 

 BODY:
FOR most of last year, Brian McMahon had one frustration after another in his job search. Laid off in July as vice president for human resources at a payroll company in California, he sent out resumes, networked endlessly and even connected with 100 search firms. For all that, he rarely landed an interview.
 Then, in January this year, Mr. McMahon noticed a change in the air. Suddenly, he was getting interviews, and he was even runner-up for several openings. In March, he was hired as director of human resources at Jennings Technology, a maker of vacuum components in San Jose, Calif. "I was elated," he said. 
 It might seem counterintuitive during sluggish economic times, but a war is looming for management talent. Recruiters say corporate America lacks a sufficient executive staff and is set for a hiring binge at the first sign of a rebound. Mr. McMahon was an early beneficiary of this changing mood, they say.
"There's a pent-up demand because companies are operating lean and mean, but when the economy starts to turn around, even slightly, we're going to see a greater demand for executive talent than we did in the late 1990's," said Allen Salikof, chief executive of Management Recruiters International, a large executive search firm.
The demand could start to be felt in the third quarter this year, some hiring consultants predict. It will be especially strong, they say, in industries like biotechnology, health care, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, consumer products and retailing, as well as certain segments of banking, and it is likely to spill over into battered sectors like technology and telecommunications by 2004. As the talent search grows more intense, Mr. Salikof says, pay increases of 10 to 15 percent could become the norm for upper managers, almost triple the rates of recent years.
Neil Lebovits, president of Ajilon, a company in Saddle Brook, N.J., that assists in hiring, said the talent war had been sneaking up on executives. "I liken it to the Internet bubble," he said. "When you look back, it was obvious it was going to burst."
A group of consultants at McKinsey & Company raised the alert about a management shortage two years ago in "The War for Talent," published by the Harvard Business School Press. The continuing shift to an information economy and the willingness of managers to hop from job to job will make finding and keeping high-caliber personnel important to corporate survival, the authors said. The American work force is expected to grow to 154 million by 2008, up 12 percent from 10 years earlier, while the number of 25- to 44-year-olds -- the leadership talent pool -- is expected to be 78 million, a 6 percent drop for that period, they said.
"Over the coming two decades, companies will be competing intensely for the limited supply of very capable managers," the book said. "Short-term fluctuations in economic activity will make the talent market a little looser or tighter from time to time, but the long-term trends are clear."
Phil Preston, senior vice president of the Comforce Corporation in Woodbury, N.Y., another hiring specialist, said biotechnology companies were already scrambling to fill senior management and science positions, offering salaries 10 to 20 percent higher than they did a year ago.
Likewise, he said, companies in a variety of industries, including computers and accounting, are stepping up their searches for managers who have international experience.
TOM SNYDER, who heads the Chicago office of Spencer Stuart, an executive recruiter, said the retail, consumer goods and consumer services sectors were also looking for people to fill new positions and replace retiring managers.
Pay for chief executives at retail companies with a few billion dollars in sales is expected to change little from the current $500,000 to $750,000 salaries plus bonuses, Mr. Snyder said. Those executives, he said, should see larger incentive payments tied to profit projections.
One consequence of a talent war, recruiters say, is that more executives will have the opportunity to switch industries, as Paul Pressler, the former head of theme parks at Walt Disney, did when he took over at Gap Inc. in September.
For some companies, Mr. Lebovits said, it may mean an exodus of unhappy managers who were afraid to test the market. "You have pent-up frustration and animosity among managers because many have been asked to do things they didn't want to do," he said. "These people will leave as soon as they can and when they start to move there will be a tremendous battle for them."
Mr. Lebovits said he believed managerial salaries for the upper echelon would rise in industries like pharmaceuticals, real estate, construction and manufacturing by 10 percent to 50 percent within a year.
Though some experts see a management shortage in the works, they say it will take a lot longer than a year to take hold. "We are nowhere close to a talent war," said Marc Savage, president of Cohn Executive Search in Manhattan. "I think it's going to get worse before it gets better."
In San Francisco, Susan Grant of Winguth, Grant & Company said the technology sector would probably not rebound until next year at the earliest. She advised senior managers in high-tech to "sit tight and keep your job."
"Get out there and network," she added. "Send your resume to everybody."
Roger E. Herman, chief executive of the Herman Group consulting firm in Greensboro, N.C., says companies will be looking, above all, for visionary managers. While almost anyone would do during the 1990's boom, he said, some companies later turned to autocratic budget cutters to survive. Now, he said, they will need executives who can motivate people.
Mr. Herman recommends that executives talk to career coaches to figure out what is really important to them, both financially and emotionally. Because they may soon have more power to call their own shots, he advised: "Ask yourself, 'If I could create a situation for myself, what would it look like?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: The difficult job market for executives may be ending. In March, Brian McMahon found a human resources position at Jennings Technologies. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); WRITERS (60%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: MANAGEMENT RECRUITERS INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: TAHMINCIOGLU, EVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



109 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: RECONSTRUCTION; 
3 Get Top Posts to Revive Iraqi Oil Flow

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 3 

 BODY:
The new civil administration in Iraq named two Iraqi oil officials and a former American oil executive today to lead the nation's oil industry, offering the first glimpse into how such a crucial economic sector might be run.
 At a meeting at the Iraqi Oil Ministry attended by top managers of the country's various oil facilities, Thamir Ghadhban was introduced as the new chief executive of the interim management team for the oil sector, in effect becoming the oil minister. 
 Mr. Ghadhban is already familiar to the other Iraqi oil managers, having served under the government of Saddam Hussein as head of the ministry's directorate of planning. In the aftermath of the war, he was among the first officials to return to work in an effort to get the country's oil flowing again. 
The announcement was made by Maj. Gen. Tim Cross of the British Army, a deputy to Jay Garner, the retired American lieutenant general who is the head of the civil administration here.
General Cross also confirmed that the chairman of an advisory board that will have oversight of the ministry would be Philip J. Carroll, a former chief executive of the Shell Oil company, the American unit of Royal Dutch/Shell, and a former chief executive of the large construction concern Fluor Daniel. 
Fadhil Othman, an Iraqi who, until 1995, led the agency that exported Iraqi oil and who now lives in Turkey, was named vice chairman of the committee.
Mr. Ghadhban and Mr. Othman are well regarded within the Iraqi petroleum industry, oil experts say.
At a brief news conference after the meeting with the oil officials, General Cross and Mr. Ghadhban took pains to point out that today's announcement was proof of the Bush administration's promise to turn over the Iraqi oil industry to the Iraqis themselves. 
Flanked by General Ross and others from the Garner team, Mr. Ghadhban said, in a reference to both petroleum and products like natural gas, that "we are committed 100 percent that Iraqi oil and hydrocarbons are for the Iraqi people." 
As evidence, General Cross and Gary Vogler, a former executive of ExxonMobil who is on General Garner's team, said the advisory committee, which is led by an American, would not be able to veto decisions of the ministry's management, which will be entirely Iraqi. Mr. Ghadhban said that to his knowledge, details of the board's authority had not yet been worked out.
Mr. Ghadhban said his immediate challenge would be to increase oil production for domestic use, which so far remains a trickle. Iraqis need oil to run their power plants, and propane and kerosene for cooking. Several important pipelines linking oil fields and refineries were damaged during the war.
A State Department spokesman at the ministry today said Mr. Ghadhban would soon name the heads of about 15 units in the ministry, in such areas as production, refining and transportation. That could speed the revival of the oil flow.
The rest of the management team at the ministry and the advisory committee have yet to be appointed, and the sizes of the two groups have yet to be determined. 
Mr. Carroll is expected to make his first visit to Iraq in his new capacity by the end of the coming week. General Cross bridled at the suggestion that perhaps the reorganization of the Iraqi oil industry was moving too slowly to keep up with the urgent needs for power and fuel.
"We could have an advisory committee picked and parachuting in the first week after the war, but that is not the way we chose to do it," General Cross said. "We are going to develop the advisory board to match the conditions we have found here on the ground." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); PROPANE (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); ARMIES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); FLUOR CORP (82%); SHELL OIL CO (68%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); FLR (NYSE) (82%); XOM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (82%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (82%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (82%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) GHADHBAN, THAMIR; OTHMAN, FADHIL; CARROLL, PHILIP J; BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



110 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
U.S. Halts Cuba Access By Educational Groups

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
DUNCAN BEARDSLEY said a bitter goodbye to Havana a few weeks ago.
 While he was there, Mr. Beardsley, director of the travel study program for Stanford alumni, learned that the Bush administration was no longer granting special licenses that allow alumni organizations, museums and other cultural groups to take American citizens on educational trips to Cuba. 
 The "people-to-people" exchange educational exemption, expanded by President Clinton in 1999, enabled as many as 100,000 United States citizens to visit Cuba legally without special status as working journalists or full-time scholars. 
Dismayed by the news, Mr. Beardsley and his group brought up their complaints in a meeting at the United States Interests Section in Havana. "We were told the educational license was being eliminated because it was being used primarily for salsa and the beach," he said. "This is a travel-study program. Study is an important part of everything we do. It is very frustrating."
The administration's decision on March 24 to stop granting the educational licenses has set off a flurry of protests from prominent cultural institutions. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, the American Museum of Natural History, the Harvard University Art Museums and the National Trust for Historic Preservation as well as many alumni and professional groups have organized trips to Cuba for their members. 
Last year, about 35,000 people traveled there with an educational license, according to estimates by Bob Guild, program director at Marazul Charters of Weehawken, N.J., the largest organizer of trips to Cuba. 
Now specialized sponsors like the Center for Cuban Studies in New York are rushing to schedule as many trips as they can before their current licenses expire this fall. The center has doubled its planned trips from 8 to 16 before its current license expires later this year. The American Museum of Natural History moved up a trip scheduled for December to November for the same reason. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, however, has canceled planned trips to visit artists and galleries because its license expired last month.
"The new regulations spell the virtual end of travel to Cuba for ordinary Americans," said Nancy Chang, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights, a nonprofit civil rights group. The rules still leave exemptions for students on academic programs as well as for professional scholars, journalists, government officials and Cuban-Americans visiting family, but far fewer people fall into those categories. 
The Bush administration is ending the educational licenses because it believes too many people have been using them mainly to have fun. It has been a more or less open secret that many ostensibly educational trips to the Havana Jazz Festival, for example, leave plenty of room for cigars, mojitos and beaches.
"The license was being abused," said Taylor Griffin, a spokesman for the Treasury Department. "It undermined the intention of the U.S. sanctions against Cuba, which are to deprive the Castro regime of the financial wherewithal to continue to oppress its people."
On March 24, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the branch of the TreasuryDepartment that administers the embargo, stopped granting new licenses and issued a rule eliminating the exemption. Officials in the office said the change was part of a constriction in Cuba policy that President Bush outlined in a fund-raising speech in Miami last May. It also coincided with a recent crackdown on Cuban dissidents by President Fidel Castro. The Treasury Department is formally accepting comment on the rule change until May 23. 
Proponents of travel to Cuba, however, argued that some of the administration's moves appear inconsistent. For example, the Treasury Department is simultaneously increasing the amount of money United States citizens can take to relatives in Cuba and expanding the number of relations they can travel to visit, a change potentially at odds with the goal of cutting off the Cuban government's economic resources. "That is the irony," said Ms. Chang of the Center for Constitutional Rights.
Cultural organizations and Cuban tour operators are urging their patrons to protest. "There is nothing more corrosive to the Castro regime than having wealthy, cultured, educated Americans going for study tours and stirring the pot with Cuban intellectual and opinion leaders," said James F. Friedlander, chief executive of Academic Arrangements Abroad, which organizes educational tours for museums and other institutions.
Richard Moe, president of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, argued in a letter to Treasury Secretary John W. Snow that because of its dilapidation, "Cuba is a laboratory for restoration and preservation procedures of vital interest to the preservation community in the United States." He urged that abuses of the licenses should be addressed without eliminating them completely. 
Some organizations are already looking for ways to get back to Cuba under other exemptions, like one for religious groups. Mr. Beardsley of Stanford said, "It's unfortunate if the only way people can go is on a religious trip, when the main interest of our alumni is in political science." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ALUMNI (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); LAWYERS (67%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (66%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (60%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (55%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



111 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY; 
Cult ofthe Personality Lives at the Fed

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AMERICANS have been lucky when it comes to Federal Reserve chairmen.
 In the 1970's, no one seemed to know what to do about inflation. As president, Jimmy Carter had the sense to appoint Paul A. Volcker, who administered the harsh medicine that vanquished the problem during the Reagan administration. 
 Mr. Volcker was a tough act to follow, but somehow Alan Greenspan has pulled it off. Since he took over in 1987, Mr. Greenspan has kept inflation at bay, reactednimbly to financial crises when they arose, and has almost come to embody the institution he leads. President Bush recently invited him to stay on for a fifth term starting in 2004, and he has said he will accept. 
That sounds like excellent news. Extending Mr. Greenspan's tenure will send a message that in troubled times, a firm hand remains on the tiller. So why am I so worried that his reappointment is a bad idea?
First, he is already 77. That means he will be 82 by the time his next term ends. If his were an elected office, his age would be a campaign issue. Athletes, executives and others in high-pressure jobs know that at some point, performance deteriorates with age. 
Given that so many people identify him with the Fed itself, even the perception that he is faltering could undermine confidence in the economy. His reappointment, moreover, would mean putting off a day of reckoning -- the day when we have to learn to live without him. It would postpone important talk about succession for a time when the economy might well be much worse off than it is now.
But perhaps the biggest problem is that Mr. Greenspan's reappointment would perpetuate the notion of Mr. Fed. The idea that the job of controlling interest rates -- and, by implication, maintaining American and even global prosperity and stability -- depends on a single indispensable individual just isn't healthy.
There is, in fact, a growing body of economic opinion -- as well as real-world experience -- suggesting that instead of the current Wizard of Oz approach, a simpler, more transparent system might work at least as well.
That system is known as inflation targeting, and it's how they do things in roughly 20 countries including Canada and New Zealand (where it began) as well as in Britain, Australia, Spain and Sweden. Economists differ on whether establishing a fixed -- or even flexible -- target for inflation is more effective than the old-fashioned system of letting central bankers do whatever they want. But one reason for this lack of clarity is that central bankers like Mr. Greenspan seem to be setting an inflation target even if they haven't named a specific number for it. 
Having an established inflation target doesn't seem to hurt, and there are some good arguments in favor of the practice.
How might it work in the United States? One straightforward approach would require the leader of the Fed to announce each year what inflation rate is the goal. That would end much uncertainty and could even become a self-fulfilling prophecy, because market expectations would tend to drive rates where they need to go. The Fed's hard-won credibility would play an important role.
Of course, Congress could just peg money-supply increases to some number -- say, the growth in real national output -- and call it a day. While that should take care of price stability, it's probably too rigid. The trick here is providing enough structure to take some of the hocus-pocus out of monetary policy, while preserving the flexibility that a Fed chief needs to address real trouble -- if necessary by cranking open the money spigot.
Having an announced inflation target -- or any other known rules -- would bring some welcome transparency to a powerful public institution that is usually shrouded in mystery. But probably the most important argument for a rules-based system is simply that, for all the talents of Mr. Greenspan, he is not immortal. 
Sooner or later, someone else will sit in his chair. And what if our luck, dating back to 1979, doesn't hold? Right now, all we can do is roll the dice and hope.
There have been inadequate Fed chairmen before -- remember Mr. Volcker's predecessor, Arthur F. Burns, whose tenure was marred by both a severe recession and accelerating inflation? -- and the odds are that someday there will be another one.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (72%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); AKST, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



112 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING; 
As Iraqi DustSettles, Debt Is Getting a Lift

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
THE swift demise of Saddam Hussein's government was cause for jubilation at financial institutions that hold Iraqi debt. After trading at less than 10 cents on the dollar before the war, it soared to 25 cents as the outcome became assured.
 Investors in the debt, and some independent analysts, expect the price to keep rising if Americans, who have been forbidden by the Treasury Department to own the paper since Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, are allowed back into the market. 
 "It could go as high as 35 to 40 cents on the dollar," said Richard Segal, research director at Exotix, a London broker specializing in emerging-markets debt. "We expect the embargo to be lifted fairly soon, probably in an executive order on sanctions generally. U.S. investors will probably try to pile in once it becomes legal for them." 
That was the case in 1999 after Slobodan Milosevic was deposed in Serbia. Serbian debt, which had traded as low as 7.5 cents on the dollar, rose to 24 cents after his government fell and lately has been trading at more than half its face value.
Iraqi debt, which like all embargoed debt trades infrequently and over-the-counter, shows a similar pattern, up to a point. It sold for 7.5 to 9 cents on the dollar in the run-up to the war, then started to rise as fighting became imminent, Mr. Segal said. In midconflict the debt reached 16 to 20 cents, and last week the price hit 25 to 29 cents.
Gains in Iraqi debt and other embargoed paper have bolstered the returns of the Aberdeen Exotic Debt fund, a specialist in politically iffy debt instruments. The offshore fund, which is not sold to Americans, rose 16.7 percent this year through April 29, according to Bloomberg Financial Markets, and was up 37.6 percent over the 12 months through April 29.
Most traders in Iraqi debt are no longer wondering whether the embargo will be lifted, but when and how.
"There is a strong sense that this could get restructured, maybe at a big discount, but there is a lot of room for the price to move higher once the situation is clarified," one London fund manager said. "It's still early days. We don't know the extent to which sanctions will be coming off or when."
The fund manager spoke on condition of anonymity for himself and his company. Political sensitivities, relating especially to the embargo, make holders of Iraqi debt reluctant to discuss their investment on the record. The manager of the Aberdeen fund declined to be interviewed.
Iraq's foreign debt is huge -- by some estimates, more than $300 billion, or $13,000 for every Iraqi citizen. A large chunk, so-called Paris Club debt, is from loans made to Iraq by foreign governments, much of it for military use.
The investable paper, known as London Club debt, comprises less than 1 percent of Iraq's total indebtedness and originated in the 1980's as commercial loans from banking syndicates. Many of the banks were French or Middle Eastern, but three American banks participated, Mr. Segal said: Irving Trust, now part of the Bank of New York; and Chase Manhattan and Manufacturers Hanover Trust, which have since been consolidated with other banks to form J. P. Morgan Chase.
Spokesmen for J. P. Morgan and the Bank of New York declined to comment on the loans. One argument against the bullish case for Iraqi debt is that the banks may unload their positions once trading restrictions end.
The small amount of London Club debt may be the least of Iraq's credit worries, but it may also be the last of them, That is another reason for caution. 
"Countries typically follow a sequence in a regime-change situation," Mr. Segal explained. "Any debt to the United Nations is paid first, then the International Monetary Fund, followed quickly by the World Bank, then the Paris Club, then the London Club."
If holders of the London Club debt must stand in line, they may be in for a long wait.
A widely held view in Washington is that loans made to the Hussein government amount to "odious debt" that the lenders should forgive. The fact that the United States is in charge in Iraq and that much of the money is owed to three vocal opponents of the war -- France, Russia and Germany -- does not augur well for a quick accord.
Mr. Segal added, though, that the order of repayment is "a rule of thumb, not a rule," and that any new Iraqi government would be wise to work out a deal swiftly with London Club creditors.
"It's easy to restructure it on generous terms because it won't cost much in absolute terms, and it will facilitate new debt on favorable terms," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) CREDIT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) DE AENLLE, CONRAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SERBIA (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



113 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
A Noted Few Make a Case For Optimism (This Time)

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
ECONOMIC optimism has been a bad bet for more than two years now, but it has not suffered from any shortage of takers.
 Starting in early 2001, Federal Reserve officials and most Wall Street economists began predicting a quick return to healthy growth, only to repeat the forecast a few months later after they were proved wrong. The Bush administration, which took office offering a presciently sober view, quickly turned to cheerleading reminiscent of the Clinton administration's final months. 
 So anybody with a good memory deserved sympathy last week when trying to understand Alan Greenspan's hopeful testimony to Congress. Sure, Mr. Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said the end of the main fighting in Iraq would probably allow the economy to finally escape its slump. But we heard the same theory about Sept. 11, the stock market bubble and corporate scandals. What makes the present the true watershed? 
A handful of economists have an answer to the question, and they deserve consideration for a simple reason: They've been right before. While most forecasters pooh-poohed the likelihood of recession in 2001, this group predicted one. Now some of them say that the same signals that were flashing red two years ago have turned green.
Their case starts with government policy. The government's effort to revive the economy began in early 2001, when the Fed began cutting its benchmark short-term interest rate. President Bush signed a tax cut that spring.
But only in the last year has the stimulus from these policies fully kicked in. "We just now should start to see the benefits," said James W. Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis and one of the recession spotters of 2001.
The federal government did not begin running an annual deficit -- putting more money into the economy than it was taking out -- until April 2002, Mr. Paulsen said. Today, tax cuts and benefits like unemployment insurance are giving money to households, while military and security spending is helping some businesses.
Long-term interest rates, which are influenced by the Fed's actions but set by investors, are near a 40-year low, making both mortgages and business loans less expensive. From late 2001 to March 2002, when a rapid economic recovery seemed possible, these rates rose more than 15 percent.
The value of the dollar also did not begin its main descent until the spring of 2002. Only since then has the effective price of American goods become more competitive with those of their rivals. And oil prices have tumbled since the eve of the Iraq war.
Today, Mr. Paulsen said, all the economic cannons that can ignite growth are firing.
For the first time since the 20th century, companies are also showing signs of health, if not yet vigor. Profits in the first quarter continued a climb that began more than a year ago. So far, the improvement has largely come from layoffs and other cost cutting. But eventually, the optimists say, better profits will cause companies to invest in new equipment, technology and workers. 
Orders for new equipment by technology companies are exceeding shipments for the first time since 2000, suggesting that corporate investment could be near a turning point, said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG/Hoenig.
"If what was going down hard is going up and the war is behind us, that's enough to be optimistic," Mr. Barbera, one of the new optimists, said.
THE argument is not without its weak spots. Even Mr. Paulsen said he thought that the growth spurt would last just a few years before budget deficits, an aging population, the low savings rate and global overcapacity caused new problems.
Other economists note that companies are using only about three-quarters of their production capacity, despite their recent cuts. So they still have room to expand without making new investments that would create jobs. If the job market remains weak, consumer spending could grow at an even slower rate, leaving executives unwilling to expand and keeping the economy caught in a slow-growth cycle.
"We do not see a healthy recovery," said Lakshman R. Achuthan, the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute in Manhattan, which also foresaw the 2001 recession. "We just don't see business investment returning anytime soon."
Skeptics like Mr. Achuthan certainly look better right now, two days after the Labor Department announced that the economy lost 525,000 jobs in the last three months. But no one should dismiss those optimists who have not been making the same prediction for almost three years.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Return to Normal"Weekly oil prices, near-month contract, in New York trading. Graph tracks oil prices through 2002 and 2003 thus far.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); TAX LAW (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (68%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); SCANDALS (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: CENTURY COS INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (60%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%) LEONHARDT, DAVID; PAULSEN, JAMES W 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



114 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Guns, Butter and Hope; 
Listen Up, Democrats: Why 2004 Isn't 1992

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FOR Democrats looking through the haze of President Bush's soaring postwar popularity to the 2004 election, there are few more comforting thoughts than the memory of the 1992 campaign for president -- when the first President Bush was defeated by Bill Clinton.
 Indeed there are many reasons to believe that the 2004 presidential contest is going to be far more competitive than opinion polls suggest, starting with the fact that the nation remains, as it was in 2000, split right down the middle. 
 But a number of people are beginning to turn away from the once conventional view that the way to understand 2004 is to study the rise and fall of Mr. Bush's father, in 1992. 
Yes, the story line is almost irresistible in its symmetry: two presidents named Bush, two wars involving Iraq, two economies in distress and once again a concern about rising health care costs. And who can blame Democrats, understandably morose after defeats in 2000 and 2002, for grabbing this lifeline?
But the world is a different place than it was when the first President Bush saw his postwar popularity collapse under the weight of economic turmoil. These are two very different presidents, and two very different White Houses, particularly when it comes to politics. Not incidentally, the field of Democrats in this accelerated contest does not seem to include a candidate of the political caliber of a Bill Clinton.
"It would be a mistake of the first order if the Democrats counted on the rhythms of 1992 to recur in 2004," said James Carville, who was Mr. Clinton's campaign manager. "The rhythms of 2004 are different than 1992, and if you try to dance to the rhythms of 1992, you'll be out of step."
For all the ostensible parallels in these two postwar Americas, many political analysts say it is unlikely that voters will be as quick to turn away from international concerns this time. The 1991 war in the Persian Gulf was a distant battle. Foreign policy discussions seemed increasingly esoteric, assuming they took place at all. (The issue barely came up in the Clinton-Bush presidential campaign.)
By contrast, since the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, American soil has become part of the battleground, and foreign policy has become anything but academic. Americans are reminded of their vulnerability with numbing regularity in the form of security alerts from the Bush administration's Department of Homeland Security, and the president said last week that the war against terrorism will march on across the globe.
"After the first gulf war, national security basically wentaway as an issue," said Robert Shrum, a Democratic consultant who is advising one of the Democratic presidential candidates, Senator John F. Kerry of Massachusetts. "This time, I think national security will be a fundamental threshold issue that anybody challenging Bush is going to have to meet."
Beyond that, Mr. Bush's advisers have been studying the same history books that the Democrats have, and they argue that their president is in a less assailable position on the economy than his father was at a similar point in his presidency.
Matthew Dowd, a senior adviser who oversees polling for the White House, said that the public was unhappy with the first President Bush's handling of the economy through much of his term, a perception that persisted even when his wartime popularity soared. 
Managing the economy is hardly viewed as this President Bush's strong suit. A CBS News poll last weekend found that 45 percent of Americans disapproved of his handling of it. And the unemployment rate jumped to 6 percent on Friday, a point below the 7 percent reached under Mr. Bush's father.
Still, Mr. Dowd argued that there was nowhere near the persistent and deep unhappiness with this president on the economy as there had been in the early 1990's.
"This was something that sort of stuck with Bush 41 through the end of '90 and '91 that he never dealt with," Mr. Dowd said, using a nickname for President Bush's father. "This president has not had a negative economic rating for more than a month or two. He doesn't have the same economic disapproval problems that his father had.
"The comparison, I think, stops at the last name." 
That difference in voter attitudes extends to the economy itself. Mr. Dowd said that in 1991, during the gulf war, a Gallup Poll found that 81 percent of Americans described the country as being mired in a recession; today, just 45 percent feel that way.
No less striking is the apparently enduring boost of public attitudes toward Mr. Bush since Sept. 11, 2001. Democrats and Republicans say that Mr. Bush's leadership addressed what had been a central concern of voters when they elected him: that he did not have the depth to weather a foreign crisis.
Mr. Shrum said that "there is not a chance in the world that George W. Bush could be elected president in 2004 with the resume that he brought into the 2000 campaign" -- an argument he did not try to make about the considerably different George W. Bush the Democrats face today.
Other factors played to Mr. Clinton's benefit in 1992 that are absent this time. Mr. Bush's father was weakened by upheaval on the right, in the form of a challenge by Patrick J. Buchanan, and the third-party candidacy of Ross Perot, which Republicans say was decisive to Mr. Clinton's victory. 
If this White House has its way -- and it has demonstrated that it almost always has its way in matters of politics -- it seems unlikely that Mr. Bush will have to deal with similar problems in 2004.
This does not by a long shot mean that Mr. Bush is guaranteed a second term; every poll shows that he remains vulnerable, as many Americans continue to dispute the legitimacy of his election and quarrel with his policies. 
While Mr. Perot may be gone from the stage, the issue that earned him so much currency -- the deficit -- has returned. Democrats have seized on it this time, and portrayed Mr. Bush as an irresponsible financial manager. "His son's economy is bad and getting worse than his father's economy," said Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic National Committee chairman. 
Still, Mr. Carville had a word of caution for Democrats who turn to 1992 to look for hope for 2004. "Shut up -- you are wrong," he said. "Successful Democratic campaigns will have to create their own dynamics."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DESERT STORM (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); TERRORISM (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (53%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); NAGOURNEY, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



115 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Trend Spotters Split Over Their Own Future

BYLINE:  By Jane L. Levere (COMPILED BY MARK A. STEIN) 

 BODY:
Sure, the bursting of the Internet and telecommunications bubble has hammered investors, venture capitalists most of all. Venture funds that once boasted of stratospheric returns now scratch around to find anything worth investing in. 
 But venture capitalists wouldn't be venture capitalists if they could not see opportunities not apparent to the rest of us. 
 And so, at the annual meeting of the National Venture Capital Association at the Waldorf-Astoria in Manhattan last week, Jeffrey Harris, managing director of Warburg Pincus in New York, said the bursting of the bubble had one unmistakable benefit.
It "reminded people around the world that if they could become an entrepreneur there might be attractive benefits from that," he said during a panel discussion.
"While the bubble has subsided," he added, "some of those entrepreneurial juices have not."
Juices or no juices, all of the panelists said they expected their ranks to be pinched. Most agreed that the number of venture capital firms would fall -- the gloomiest panelist predicted the total could tumble as much as half from last year, to 400, by 2007, while the money that they manage could also halve, to about $125 billion. The amount that the survivors actually invest in new companies could also decline, the panelists said, to as little as $10 billion a year by 2007 from $21.2 billion last year.
James W. Breyer, managing partner of Accel Partners in Palo Alto, Calif., said it would be two or three years "before we exactly hit bottom and start to recover." Jane L. Levere

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (96%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); STARTUPS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%) VENTURE CAPITAL 

COMPANY: WARBURG PINCUS LLC (57%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL VENTURE CAPITAL ASSN 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%)

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



116 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Leo-Cons; 
A Classicist's Legacy: New Empire Builders

BYLINE:  By JAMES ATLAS; James Atlas, the author of "Bellow: A Biography," is the president of Atlas Books.

 BODY:
ALL right, so weapons of mass destruction haven't yet been found in Iraq. And no firm link has been established between Saddam Hussein and Al Qaeda. So what was the war in Iraq about, then? According to one school of thought, our most recent military adventure turns out to have been nothing less than a defense of Western civilization -- as interpreted by the late classicist and political philosopher Leo Strauss.
 If this chain of events seems implausible, consider the tribute President Bush paid in February to the cohort of journalists, political philosophers and policy wonks known -- primarily to themselves -- as Straussians. "You are some of the best brains in our country," Mr. Bush declared in a speech at the American Enterprise Institute, "and my government employs about 20 of you." 
 "Employs" is too weak a verb. To intellectual-conspiracy theorists, the Bush administration's foreign policy is entirely a Straussian creation. Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, has been identified as a disciple of Strauss; William Kristol, founding editor of The Weekly Standard, a must-read in the White House, considers himself a Straussian; Gary Schmitt, executive director of the Project for the New American Century, an influential foreign policy group started by Mr. Kristol, is firming in the Strauss camp. One is reminded of Asa Leventhal, the hero of Saul Bellow's novel "The Victim," who asks his oppressor, a mysterious figure named Kirby Allbee, "Wait a minute, what's your idea of who runs things?" For those who believe in the power of ideas, it wouldn't be too much of a stretch to answer: the intellectual heirs of Leo Strauss.
So how did it come to pass that a European-born emigre identified by the Harvard professor of government Harvey Mansfield (also a Straussian) as "an obscure professor of political philosophy at the University of Chicago who died in 1973" now occupies a position of such disproportionate influence? 
The answer starts with Strauss's long and influential tenure at Chicago in the mid-20th century and his teachings, mostly from the classics, about the immutability of moral and social values. His lessons were spurned in the 1960's and 70's, in favor of the moral relativism that his disciples believed was polluting foreign policy, from the post-Vietnam imperial malaise to detente with the Soviet Union. During the Reagan administration, some of Strauss's admirers, like Irving Kristol and Norman Podhoretz, emerged as house intellectuals -- favored dinner guests who gave the intellectual justification for policies usually drawn up by more practical political types.
Today's dinner guests are the dominant master strategists in their own right, and the transformation brings us face to face with just how much their intellectual roots influence their exercise of power. It is also reasonable to ask: just what would Leo Strauss think of the policies being carried out in his name?
On the basis of his curriculum vitae, Strauss would seem an unlikely figurehead of the Bush White House, hardly a hotbed of intellectual inquiry, as detailed in a recent book by a former presidential speechwriter, David Frum. The child of middle-class Orthodox Jews, Strauss converted to Zionism while still in his teens, attended Martin Heidegger's lectures at the University of Freiburg, and eventually crossed paths with some of the most influential European intellectual figures of the prewar period: Walter Benjamin, Alexandre Kojeve, Hans-Georg Gadamer. In 1934, Strauss emigrated to Britain, where he wrote "The Political Philosophy of Thomas Hobbes." Just before the outbreak of World War II, he joined the faculty of the New School for Social Research, a refuge for European intellectuals. His final home was the University of Chicago, where he taught in the political science department for a quarter of a century.
At first glance, Strauss's work seems remote from the heat of contemporary politics. He was more at home in the world of Plato and Aristotle than in debates about the origins of totalitarianism. His major books included "Xenophon's Socratic Discourse," "Thoughts on Machiavelli" and a collection of essays on the ancient Greeks, "The City and Man." But closer scrutiny reveals a mind keenly aware of current events. 
Strauss's own experience -- he witnessed Russian pogroms as a child and barely escaped the Holocaust -- alerted him to the perils of history. "When we were brought face to face with tyranny -- with a kind of tyranny that surpassed the boldest imagination of the most powerful thinkers of the past -- our political science failed to recognize it," Strauss wrote in his classic "On Tyranny." He believed, as he once wrote, that "to make the world safe for the Western democracies, one must make the whole globe democratic, each country in itself as well as the society of nations." There's a reason that some Bush strategists continue to invoke Strauss's name.
The myth of Strauss derives from a single event: the publication of Allan Bloom's "Closing of the American Mind" in 1987. Bloom, who taught with the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago, had been a student of Strauss's; his incendiary best seller argued that democracy as practiced by the Greeks represents the highest form of civilization. The free society is the best man has devised. But Bloom's dense and at times inscrutable polemic was not a call to action; it was a celebration of the classics as a civilizing force. "The open agenda of Straussians is the reading of the Great Books for their own sake, not for a political purpose," wrote Harvey Mansfield in The New Republic.
This agenda became politicized when it was appropriated -- some might say hijacked -- by a cohort of ambitious men for whom the university was too confining an arena. Alain Frachon and Daniel Vernet, writing in Le Monde two weeks ago, provided a vivid snapshot of these fugitives from the academy. "They have an 'intellectual,' often New York, often Jewish, profile, and often began on the left. Some of them still call themselves Democrats. They carry around literary or political magazines, not the Bible; they wear tweed jackets, not the petrol blue suits of Southern televangelists. Most of the time, they profess liberal ideas on social and moral questions. They are trying neither to ban abortion nor to impose school prayer. Their ambition lies elsewhere." By "elsewhere" is meant the world of Washington politics and power.
The most prominent figure singled out by the French journalists was Mr. Wolfowitz, who received his B.A. from Cornell, where he studied with Bloom in his pre-Chicago days, and his Ph. D. in political science and economics from the University of Chicago. Recruited by Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, Mr. Wolfowitz is widely regarded as a chief architect of foreign policy. 
In "Ravelstein," a biography of Bloom in the form of a novel published in 2000, Saul Bellow depicts the information-avid professor Abe Ravelstein fielding calls on his cellphone from former students who have made their way to high places in government. His disciples include Philip Gorman, a Wolfowitz-like official in the first Bush administration who rings up his former professor to show that he's in the loop. "Powell and Baker," Gorman confides, have advised the President to call a halt to the 1991 gulf war without a march on Baghdad: "They send out a terrific army and give a demonstration of up-to-date high-tech warfare that flesh and blood can't stand up to. But then they leave the dictatorship in place and steal away. . . ." (Not this time.)
The Bush administration is rife with Straussians. In addition to Mr. Wolfowitz, there is his associate Richard N. Perle, chairman of the Defense Policy Board and the managing partner in Trireme Partners, a venture-capital company heavily invested in manufacturers of technology for homeland security and defense. Mr. Perle and Mr. Wolfowitz are both disciples of the late Albert Wohlstetter, a Straussian professor of mathematics and military strategist who put forward the idea of "graduated deterrence" -- limited, small-scale wars fought with "smart" precision-guided bombs.
William Kristol, a former student of Harvey Mansfield's at Harvard, and these days editor of The Weekly Standard, is a highly influential voice in this crowd. "We need to err on the side of being strong," Mr. Kristol said last week on Fox News. "And if people want to say we're an imperial power, fine."
How well have Strauss's hawkish disciples understood him? Are high-level officers in the State Department boning up on his critique of Aristotle's "Politics" late at night, hunched over his knotty texts like grad students cramming for an exam? Or have they just gotten the gist? "It's an opaque and difficult question," says Mr. Kristol. "Strauss's kind of conservatism is public-spirited. He taught a great respect for politics and the pursuit of the common good." 
To be sure, Strauss asserted "the natural right of the stronger" to prevail: "The only restraint in which the West can put some confidence is the tyrant's fear of the West's immense military power." But he was skeptical of triumphalism, and conscious of the dangers of foreign occupation: "Even the lowliest men prefer being subjects to men of their own people rather than to any aliens." And in his critique of Aristotle's "Politics," he condemned the Spartan Brasidas, whose countrymen "drew his attention to the fact that he did not promote the liberation of the Greeks from Athenian domination by killing men who had never lifted their hands against the liberating Peloponnesians and were Athenian allies only under duress; if he did not stop his practice he would convert many who were friends of Sparta into enemies."
For Strauss, defending Western democracy against barbarous enemies was a natural right, but it was a right that entailed responsibility. The victor had the obligation to teach and transmit its values, not to impose them. As long ago as 1964, he recognized the tension that had accumulated "during the centuries in which Christianity and Islam each raised its universal claim but had to be satisfied with uneasily coexisting with its antagonist." Four decades later, nations at the heart of the two civilizations have engaged in a violent clash and -- for the moment -- the Westerners have won.
Next time we might remember to put a tank at the museum door.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Temple of Hephaistos of classical Athens. Straussians look to ancient Greece for lessons in ideal democracy. (pg. 4) Drawing: Paul D. Wolfowitz, left, may be the most powerful acolyte of Leo Strauss in the Bush administration, but he's far from the only one. A guide to the neocons' intellectual family tree, page 4. (Barry Blitt)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); WRITERS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); LITERATURE (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC); KRISTOL, WILLIAM; PERLE, RICHARD N; STRAUSS, LEO (1899-1973); ATLAS, JAMES; BLOOM, ALLAN (1930-92) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); GREECE (68%) IRAQ

TITLE: CLOSING OF THE AMERICAN MIND, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



117 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: The Iceman Cometh 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, Calif. 

 BODY:
The tail hook caught the last cable, jerking the fighter jet from 150 m.p.h. to zero in two seconds.
 Out bounded the cocky, rule-breaking, daredevil flyboy, a man navigating the Highway to the Danger Zone, out along the edges where he was born to be, the further on the edge, the hotter the intensity. 
 He flashed that famous all-American grin as he swaggered around the deck of the aircraft carrier in his olive flight suit, ejection harness between his legs, helmet tucked under his arm, awestruck crew crowding around. Maverick was back, cooler and hotter than ever, throttling to the max with joystick politics. 
Compared to Karl Rove's "revvin' up your engine" myth-making cinematic style, Jerry Bruckheimer's movies look like "Lizzie McGuire."
This time Maverick didn't just nail a few bogeys and do a 4G inverted dive with a MIG-28 at a range of two meters. This time the Top Gun wasted a couple of nasty regimes, and promised this was just the beginning. Mav swaggered across the deck to high-five his old gang: his wise flight instructor, Viper; his amiable sidekick, Goose; his chiseled rival, Iceman.
MAVERICK: I feel the need . . . 
GOOSE: The need for speed!
ICEMAN: You're really a cowboy.
MAVERICK: What's your problem?
ICEMAN: Your ego's writing checks your body can't cash. You didn't need to take all that water survival training in the White House swimming pool. The Abraham Lincoln was practically docked, only 30 miles off shore, after 10 months at sea. They had to steer it away from land for you. If you'd waited a few hours, you could've just walked aboard. You and Rove are making a gorgeous campaign video on the Pacific to cast you as the warrior president for 2004, but back on shore, things are ugly. The California economy's bleeding, even worse than other states'. When you took office, the unemployment rate in San Jose was 1.7 percent; by February of this year, it had risen to 8.5 percent. Your motorcade didn't bother to stop in the depressed high-tech corridor in Silicon Valley. Every time you cut taxes and raise deficits while you're roaring ahead with a pre-emptive military policy, you're unsafe. National unemployment goes up to 6 percent and you just hammer Congress to pass your tax cut. The only guys sure about their jobs these days are defense contractors connected to Republicans and the Carlyle Group, which owns half of the defense plant you visited here. You're dangerous.
MAVERICK: That's right, Iceman. I amdangerous.
ICEMAN: You can fly, Maverick. But you, Cheney and Rummy are strutting around on a victory tour when you haven't found Osama or Saddam or WMD; you haven't figured out how you're going to stop tribal warfare and religious fanaticism and dangerous skirmishes with our soldiers; you don't yet know how to put Afghanistan and Iraq back together so that a lot of people over there don't hate us. And why can't you stop saying that getting rid of Saddam removed "an ally" of Al Qaeda and was payback for 9/11? You know we just needed to jump somebody in that part of the world.
MAVERICK: That part of the world is what I call a target rich environment, sorta like a Democratic debate. Hey, Miss Iceman, why don't you head to the Ladies Room? John Kerry and John Edwards are already there, fixin' their hair all pretty-like. Howard Dean's with 'em, trying on a dress, and Kucinich is hemming it for him.
VIPER: You're arrogant, son. I like that in a pilot. You're a hell of an instinctive flyer. You're a lot like your old man. He was a natural, heroic son of a gun. I flew with him in his torpedo bomber in '44. Is that why you fly the way you do? Trying to prove something by doing the opposite? He tried to get deficits down. He did it right. And he knew you had to have wingmen among the allies. You can't buzz the tower of the world every time you go up. You can't just jettison the Top Gun global rules of engagement.
MAVERICK: Sure I can. Like greed, aggression is good. Aggression has marked the upward surge of mankind. Aggression breeds patriotism, and patriotism curbs dissent. Aggression has made Democrats cower, the press purr and the world quake. Aggression -- you mark my words -- will not only save humanity, but it will soon color all the states Republican red. Mission accomplished. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); TAX LAW (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (50%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (54%); JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (53%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DOWD, MAUREEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



118 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: THE PRESIDENT; 
Bush Says It Will Take Time to Find Iraq's Banned Arms

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., May 3 

 BODY:
With his administration under growing international pressure to find evidence that Saddam Hussein possessed banned weapons, President Bush told reporters today that "we'll find them," but cautioned that it would take some time because, he said, Mr. Hussein spent so many years hiding his stockpiles.
 Mr. Bush's comments came after his senior aides, in interviews in recent days, had begun to back away from their prewar claims that Mr. Hussein had an arsenal that was loaded and ready to fire. They now contend that he developed what they call a "just in time" production strategy for his weapons, hiding chemical precursors that could be quickly loaded into empty artillery shells or short-range missiles. 
 But no evidence has been found that he did so, and Mr. Bush's comments reflected a growing concern in the administration that opponents of the war would claim that the United States exaggerated the evidence against Iraq in order to justify an attack that was intended to depose Mr. Hussein.
Referring to the growing number of Iraqi scientists and military officials now in custody, the president made it clear that he thought they would soon lead American forces to Mr. Hussein's weapons stores. "It may not be the aces, kings and queens and jacks that do the talking," he said, referring to the Iraqi officials whose faces have been placed on playing cards to help allied troops identify them. "It may be those carrying the water for the aces, kings, queens and jacks."
Speaking on his ranch this morning with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia, Mr. Bush appeared still ebullient after his two-day swing through California. On the trip, he declared an end to the military phase of the war in a made-for-television speech to the 5,000 crew members of the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln off shore in the Pacific.
His aides describe that speech on Thursday as one of the best-staged events of his presidency. They are already discussing how clips of Mr. Bush in a flight jump suit, surrounded by returning troops, can be used in the 2004 re-election campaign.
Today, the president was engaged in another facet of marking the end of the war: He rewarded Mr. Howard, who took big political risks at home by ordering Australian forces into Iraq, with an overnight visit to his ranch. Mr. Bush regards this as an honor reserved for his closest allies, one he said recently that France's president, Jacques Chirac, would not be given anytime soon.
At meetings this morning, the two leaders spent much of their time discussing the crisis in North Korea, though they did not mention it at their news conference. The crucial issue is whether to proceed with negotiations or move to tighten economic penalties and perhaps maritime interdiction of North Korean missiles. 
They spent Friday night talking over a dinner that included one of Mr. Bush's favorite dishes -- green chili cheese grits -- and the president took Mr. Howard on a brisk walking tour of the ranch. For Mr. Howard, the photos of that walk may prove as politically valuable as the pictures aboard the Lincoln are for Mr. Bush.
Mr. Bush's endorsement today of a free trade agreement being negotiated with Australia, which would remove most tariffs and other barriers on trade between the countries, may be equally valuable. Such an agreement is a major economic issue in Australia. Mr. Bush said today that "the idea is to try to get this done by the end of the year," and passed by Congress next year.
When he said it would be an important "step in our relationship," Mr. Howard said, "Amen to that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at his ranch yesterday with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia, which sent troops to join the allied forces in Iraq. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN HOWARD (85%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); HOWARD, JOHN (PRIME MIN); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (78%) IRAQ; AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



119 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: Something Green In That Garbage?; 
Recycling in City May Pay After All

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
A year ago, recycling in New York City was in retreat. Branded as an environmental luxury no longer affordable to a city in fiscal crisis, the decade-old program of curbside sorting and collection was cut back.
 Now companies are bidding to restore it and bring jobs to the city to support its resurgence. And in a paradoxical way, city officials, environmentalists and waste disposal experts say, the rebound has come about through the same forces that threatened recycling in the first place: government budget troubles. 
 When Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg suspended the collection of glass and plastic last summer, he said that dumping that waste in a landfill or incinerating it was the cheaper alternative and would save the city about $40 million a year. 
But those savings have been very hard for the city to demonstrate, with independent budget experts finding evidence of only $11 million or less in cost reductions. For many people, that punctured the argument that recycling was a big financial drain.
At the same time, other changes fell into place to support recycling's return. Some were the result of the suspension, others were purely coincidental, and none had anything to do with lofty goals about saving the planet.
Pennsylvania, which receives much of New York's garbage and is struggling with its own budget crisis, slapped a surcharge on waste heading for its landfills. That raised the costs of traditional disposal. In New Jersey, a metal salvage company called Hugo Neu Schnitzer East, which had never been involved in municipal recycling, saw a new niche and offered to rebuild the city's recycling program on some of the best financial terms ever offered to New York.
In just one year, environmentalists say, that combination of forces may have actually made recycling the cheaper alternative to traditional disposal -- a threshold that recycling's supporters dreamed about but never reached. And that breakthrough has made Mr. Bloomberg, the man who said recycling made no budgetary sense, its unlikely and accidental savior.
Officials at the city's Department of Sanitation agree that the landscape has changed and that recycling is looking better than ever. The commissioner, John J. Doherty, has repeatedly said the Hugo Neu bid alone has reshaped the department's economic assumptions about recycling.
Other department officials said the only thing keeping a contract from being signed with Hugo Neu for the program's return is the overarching uncertainty of the budget. They simply do not know how many people will be on the payroll when the budget storm passes, they said. Recycling, even if its costs are reduced and parts of it make money, may simply not be possible with a sharply reduced city work force.
Either way, hardly anyone is suggesting, as many were a year ago, that New York recyclers may soon be sorting and bagging their last.
"From the point of view of city number crunchers, the suspension was a failure," said City Councilman Michael E. McMahon, a Democrat from Staten Island, who is the chairman of the Council's Sanitation Committee. "But from the point of view of pro-recyclers, it was clearly a success."
What happened, waste industry experts say, is partly that Mr. Bloomberg reframed the debate about recycling into hard, practical financial terms. Could recycling be self-sustaining? Was it a justifiable expense in troubled times? Were there better, smarter, more economically sound ways of doing it? And the answers that emerged, again partly by pure coincidence, were all yes.
Before the suspension, for example, opponents of the program could argue that many recyclables, especially glass bottles, ended up in landfills anyway because there were few markets for reuse, so the city was just going through the motions of environmental policy and throwing good money after bad.
But after the bids last fall by Hugo Neu, those arguments no longer got much traction. The company, which has been recycling the city's metal on a temporary basis, offered the best terms on both parts of the recycling contract: for plastic and metal, to begin this July, and for plastic, metal and glass, to begin in July 2004. It said it would pay the city $5.10 a ton for metal and plastic. The next best offer came from Waste Management, the giant disposal company, which said it would take the plastic and metal for a fee of $67 a ton.
For the 2004 contract that would include glass, all the bids were negative -- meaning they would cost the city money -- but Hugo Neu's was the lowest, at $70 a ton. Disposal costs in out-of-state landfills, by contrast, have now reached about $105 a ton, up 46 percent in the last three years, according to city figures.
Last week, company officials said they had recalculated the numbers since their original bid and would drop their price by $19, to $51 a ton. Hugo Neu's general manager, Robert A. Kelman, said that the price could be reduced because the company had found a partner interested in using the city's glass recyclables -- the hardest item to reuse -- for manufacturing construction materials, paving stones and other items for sale in garden centers.
He said that he could not identify the glass company yet, but that it had agreed to build a factory in Hunts Point, the Bronx, which would employ about 25 people.
"Our goal is that nothing goes into the landfill, and we believe we've got it," Mr. Kelman said. "With this bid it is clear that New York City can bring back all of the recycling program and save money at the same time, especially as the cost of exporting garbage continues to rise."
City budget experts say that the suspension of recycling has also revealed just how intertwined recycling has become with what might be called New York's disposal culture. When glass and plastic recycling was halted, for example, some residents stopped sorting out their paper for recycling even though that part of the program continued. That reduced the savings from the suspension because the city already makes money recycling paper.
Other variables make it hard to calculate the savings: the separate costs for collection and processing of recyclables, the changes in collection routes when the suspension took effect, fluctuating fuel prices, and the fact that several new trash processing contracts were signed during the suspension. All those higher disposal costs must be applied to the plastic, glass and additional paper now being thrown away instead of recycled.
Environmentalists say they are happy that recycling has shown new strength, but few are willing to give Mr. Bloomberg even an empty tuna can's worth of credit. The suspension, some say, revealed a hostility to recycling. That it may come back stronger, they add, is not a result of any bold thinking on the city's part.
"There was no wisdom in halting plastic and glass recycling last summer, and all of the positive developments on recycling in recent months have taken place in spite of the city's lack of enthusiasm for this program," said Mark A. Izeman, a lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a conservation group based in Manhattan.
Other environmental experts say that by requiring recycling to prove itself financially, Mr. Bloomberg has thrown down a challenge to the environmental community to become more practical in thinking about the whole waste disposal system. The city is working on a system of trash transfer stations, which would be built along the water to allow barge transport, and protests have already been raised about the consequences of the program on the neighborhoods around the station sites and on the city's waterfront development.
The executive director of the New York League of Conservation Voters, Marcia Bystryn, said in an interview that the time for confrontation on those issues is over. Constructive dialogue should be the new rule, she said.
"My view on this is that the environmental community has a responsibility to work with the city to put in place the most environmentally friendly and yet economically sustainable solid waste disposal system," she said. "That system entails as a core part a strong recycling program. But it also entails a constructive discourse on how the city gets rid of the rest of the garbage."
But behind all of those changes, like a ticking clock, is the budget crisis. Mr. Kelman at Hugo Neu said that the decision to improve the company's offer was partly intended to increase the pressure on the Bloomberg administration. The company needs time to prepare if the deadlines of July 1 on plastics and metal and 2004 for the whole program are to be met, he said. 
The company has proposed building a $15 million recycling plant in the Bronx to be ready by next year, but Mr. Kelman said the plant would take 14 months to build. For plastic recycling to start on July 1 of this year, he said, he needs every day between now and that deadline to get ready.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); MAYORS (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



120 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Deal Reached For Higher Tax On Big Earners 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN 

 BODY:
Legislative leaders in Albany announced yesterday that they had reached an agreement with the Bloomberg administration on a temporary income tax increase on the city's highest-income residents to help close the city's budget gap.
 On Friday, legislative leaders and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced an agreement that would provide the city with $2.7 billion in revenues by increasing state aid and by raising the city's sales tax and income tax. Legislative and mayoral aides then worked late into the night to calculate how large an increase was needed to meet the mayor's goal of an additional $400 million a year in income tax revenue. 
 Like many New Yorkers, City Council members grumbled yesterday about the planned increases in city and state taxes, which come on top of a record property tax increase of 18.5 percent approved last year. But Council members said they would nonetheless vote to approve the increases, viewing it as the least objectionable alternative to helping eliminate the city's $3.8 billion budget deficit. 
"We have a real fiscal crisis," said Gifford Miller, the Council speaker. "It's a matter of choosing among the best of the alternatives. This is clearly a big step in the right direction for the city's fiscal situation."
Council leaders said the Council was likely to vote tomorrow to pass the sales and income tax increases. The Council must first ask the Legislature for authorization to approve increases in the city's sales and income taxes. The Legislature also plans to take up the package tomorrow.
On Friday, Mr. Bloomberg stood in Albany alongside Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver to announce the $2.7 billion revenue package, saying it would spare him from carrying out a doomsday plan that could have meant 40 firehouse closings and 10,000 more layoffs. The package includes $1.2 billion in restored state funding for education and health and the state's assuming $500 million of the city's debt service. There is also $275 million to finance the teachers' contract.
To finance these moves, legislative leaders agreed on a package to increase state and city sales and income taxes. But Gov. George E. Pataki, vowing to block any "job-killing" tax increases, has said he would veto the increased state taxes. He has not indicated whether he would also veto the increases in city taxes.
Under the agreement announced yesterday, the top income tax rate is slated to rise this year to 4.25 percent from the current 3.648 percent for single city residents whose net taxable income is above $100,000 and for married couples whose net taxable income is above $150,000. As with the proposed increases in the state income tax, the surcharge is slated to decrease slightly in 2004 and 2005, before being phased out in 2006.
Under the agreement, the tax rate would rise to 4.45 percent, from the current 3.648, for all city residents with taxable incomes of more than $500,000. That rate would remain at 4.45 percent for three years before being phased out.
Business groups attacked the income tax increase, while labor unions applauded it, hoping it would minimize pressures for layoffs and concessions.
"It's a terribly heavy tax plan, and I'm somewhat amazed they would do the double whammy of separate state and city tax surcharge," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed fiscal watchdog group. "Where New York's tax system is most out of line with other states is its income tax rates. To add so much to New Yorker's already uncompetetive rate is really going to be a problem for New York's economy."
Mayor Bloomberg's communications manager, Bill Cunningham, defended the package, including the tax increases.
"It was important that the state legislators could see that we in the city were biting the bullet so they can pass these other elements that are so important to the city," he said. "It shows everybody is pitching in because not everybody owns a house and had to pay a property tax increase."
Mr. Cunningham said the income tax surcharge would not place an undue burden on New Yorkers. "Only 150,000 tax filers will pay it of 2 million tax filers in New York City," he said. "Given the levels at which the surtax kicks in, we're really talking about people who live in Manhattan, Riverdale and Brooklyn Heights. It's not a broad-based tax, hitting 80 percent of the city's taxpayers."
For a couple with taxable income of $250,000, the new rate of 4.25 percent would mean a $602 increase in city income taxes this year. For a couple with taxable income of $700,000, the change would mean an increase in city income taxes of $3,711. These figures do not include the plan to increase the state income tax to 7.5 percent from 6.85 percent on taxable earnings above $100,000 for single people and above $150,000 for married couples.
Thousands of teachers held a rally in Albany yesterday to urge the Legislature to override Mr. Pataki's threatened veto. The rally was originally planned to urge the Legislature to restore much of Mr. Pataki's education cuts, but when Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver announced just such a plan last week, the rally's focus changed to criticizing Mr. Pataki for his veto threats and urging the Legislature not to shrink from overriding any veto by the governor.
"The message is to bring this restoration and rescue package home," said the president of the United Federation of Teachers, Randi Weingarten. "If the governor is so unwise to veto these needed education restorations and this needed financial rescue package for the city that is the economic engine of New York State, then override the governor's veto."
Legislative aides said that under the agreement the new top tax rate for single people with incomes over $100,000 and for couples over $150,000 would fall from 4.25 percent this year to 4.175 next year and then to 4.05 percent in 2005. In 2006, the top tax rate would then return to its current level, 3.648 percent.
Under the agreement announced on Friday, the city's sales tax would rise by one-eighth of one percent, which would be on top of the legislators' plan to raise the state sales tax by one-quarter of one percent. These steps would increase the state sales tax to 4.25 percent from 4 percent and the city's sales tax to 8.625 percent from 8.25 percent. 
Mr. Bloomberg had resisted pressures from Albany to increase the city's sales tax by one-quarter of one percent. The fiscal package calls for phasing out the sales tax increases after two years. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 6 about a legislative budget package under which the taxes of New York City residents would go up misstated the proposed increases in the state and city sales taxes. (One or both of those figures were also misstated in articles on May 3, 4 and 5.) They are one-fourth of 1 percentage point for the state one-eighth of 1 percentage point for the city -- not one-fourth of 1 percent and one-eighth of 1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); INCOME TAX (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CHRISTIAN, NICHOLE M 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



121 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1795 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: THE ADVISERS; 
Iraqi Exiles, Backed by U.S., Return to Reinvent a Country

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Danny Hakim, Douglas Jehl and Michael Moss and written by Mr. Jehl. 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., May 3 

 BODY:
Munther al-Fadhal believes that there is no place for religion in a new constitution for Iraq. He favors the establishment of relations between Iraq and Israel. He even thinks Iraq should outlaw the death penalty. 
 Such an agenda might not seem surprising in Washington or in Sweden, Dr. Fadhal's temporary home. But in Iraq, even after Saddam Hussein, and in much of the Arab world, it is very radical indeed, challenging deeply felt views about Islam, Israel and Arab autonomy. 
 And yet, this very weekend, aboard an American military plane, Dr. Fadhal is beginning a trip home to Iraq to try to put his ideas in place. As the designated senior adviser to the Iraqi Justice Ministry, he will be one of the leaders of a 150-strong team of exiles plucked by the Pentagon from posts in America and Europe to help shape the new Iraq. 
A look at the team, assembled in a mere two months by Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz, shows how boldly the United States is trying to import secular, democratic notions to an Iraq whose political future remains the subject of profound division and flux. It also underscores some of the considerable risks involved. 
"Maybe in five or six years they'll understand that this guy is a good guy," Dr. Fadhal said the other day over lunch near the Pentagon, referring to himself. More immediately, though, he said he expected that Iraqis who stayed behind through Mr. Hussein's rule would view him with hostility, not just as an import but "as an agent or a spy." As a precaution, he said, he has arranged for six Kurdish bodyguards to meet him in Baghdad, to supplement his American military guards. 
Pentagon officials have described the team of advisers, which works from United States-financed offices in Virginia and is called the Iraqi Reconstruction and Redevelopment Council, as primarily administrators whose job will be to smooth a transition to an Iraqi-led authority by resuscitating moribund ministries and restarting basic services.
"It's an enormously valuable asset to have people who share our values, understand what we're about as a country, and are in most cases citizens of this country, but who also speak the language, share the culture and know their way around Iraq," Mr. Wolfowitz said in a telephone interview. He said the Iraqi advisers would not play political roles. "They are going to give us technical advice," he said.
But some Iraqi exile leaders say the creation of the team was too narrow and overly influenced by the views of Mr. Wolfowitz and fellow conservatives, who have espoused a vision of bold change in Iraq. 
"This is insulting," said Imam Husham al-Husainy, an Iraqi Shiite leader who runs the Karbalaa Islamic Education Center in Detroit, which is aligned with the Supreme Council on Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a group that is based in Iran and has kept at arm's length from the American government-building effort.
"We don't follow others," Imam Husainy said in dismissing as "yes men" the members of the Pentagon-assembled team. "Where is the democracy if you're just dictating our ideas? That's not democracy."
Certainly most of the advisers espouse liberal, secular ideals that are at odds even with those of many other Iraqi exiles as well as powerful forces inside Iraq. The leader of the group is Emad Dhia, a 51-year-old engineer and pharmaceutical executive on leave from Pfizer in Ann Arbor, Mich. Among the other important advisers are Dr. Fadhal, a legal scholar and author of a draft Iraqi constitution, and Khidhir Hamza, a nuclear scientist who, with help from the Central Intelligence Agency in the 1990's, became one of Iraq's most prominent defectors. 
The seeds for the exiles' team were planted at a reception that Mr. Wolfowitz attended in Washington last fall, Pentagon officials and the exiles say. There, Joanne Dickow, an Iraqi-American from Michigan who was an administration appointee at the Energy Department, discussed Iraqi-American and Arab-American views about the war with Mr. Wolfowitz. He asked if it would be useful to reach out to Iraqi-Americans.
After a flurry of meetings in the Detroit area between Iraqi exiles and Defense Department officials, the plans for the group were devised at a February meeting at the Pentagon and cemented after a rally in Dearborn, Mich., on Feb. 23 at which Mr. Wolfowitz was the leading attraction. The team was assembled over the next two months, in a round-the-world burst of telephone negotiations and voice-mail messages left by Mr. Dhia.
By the middle of this coming week, at least two dozen exiles will be installed in key temporary posts advising Jay Garner, the retired lieutenant general who has been the country's day-to-day administrator, and L. Paul Bremer, the retired State Department official who is expected to be appointed Iraq's senior American overseer. Some American officials openly hope that some of the Iraqis will stay on even longer to serve under the transitional government that Iraqi political leaders themselves are trying to assemble, under American and British supervision, with a target date now set for late this month or early June.
The roots of the exiles' team led back to the Iraqi Forum for Democracy, which Mr. Dhia co-founded in 1998. Composed mostly of secular professionals from across the spectrum of Iraq's Shiite, Sunni, Kurdish and Christian populations, the group's declared mission has been "to promote democracy and democratic values for Iraq by peaceful means."
Some Iraqi-American critics said they were troubled by the speed of the process. 
"Many of us are really upset that we didn't know about this," said Raz Rasool, who fled Iraq in 1998 and is a member of the advocacy group Women for a Free Iraq. "They started this two months ago, and we read about it just this week."
In the interview, Mr. Wolfowitz took issue with the idea that the selection process had been improper. "What we're saying is they share our values, so we shouldn't be dealing with them?" he said.
Dr. Wolfowitz announced plans to form the exile team at the Feb. 23 rally. Still, the Pentagon has been guarded in answering inquiries about the team, although officials say their motivation is to provide security. During their time in the Washington area, Mr. Dhia, who returned to Baghdad late last month, and other team members have lived and worked in apartments and offices paid for by the United States government, and received salaries and pocket money paid by American taxpayers.
Before heading to Baghdad, each team member has been required by the Pentagon to undergo several days of training at American military bases, to learn how to protect themselves against possible attack. 
In Baghdad, Dr. Fadhal said, the team will live and work in compounds guarded by American soldiers. But technically, they are working for SAIC, a defense contractor, and their heavily guarded offices outside Washington have been equipped with telephone numbers and e-mail addresses that betray no hint of a Pentagon link. 
Most members of the team have post-graduate degrees, according to Pentagon officials and the exiles themselves. A substantial number are naturalized citizens of the United States or European countries. While some are well known, many others are not.
Among the latter group, Mohammad Ali Zainy, an American citizen designated as senior Iraqi adviser to the Ministry of Oil, held only a mid-ranking position in that ministry before he fled Iraq in 1982. Now 64, he worked in Colorado as an oil company executive and energy consultant before joining the Center for Global Energy Studies in London, where he has been analyst for several years.
Dr. Hamza, also 64, on the other hand, is a nuclear physicist who became well known in the West after he fled Iraq in 1994, first to Libya and then to the United States. His six months of experience in 1987 as director of Iraq's efforts to develop nuclear weapons made him valuable to the C.I.A., which, after rebuffing his initial attempts, ultimately helped Dr. Hamza and his family resettle in the Washington area.
David Albright, a former United Nations weapons inspector who is president of the Institute for Science and International Security, an advocate of the inspections, worked closely with Dr. Hamza in the late 1990's, but describes him as becoming sharply critical of the process. 
He said Dr. Hamza believed that the inspections threatened to undermine his overarching goal of ousting Mr. Hussein. "If the inspections work, then the regime change can't happen,' " Mr. Albright says Dr. Hamza told him.
Dr. Fadhal, 52, who left Iraq after the 1991 Persian Gulf war, was a law professor in Baghdad who had drawn attention to himself by criticizing Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. He fled first to Jordan and then to Sweden, where he and his family now live.
Along with others who are now part of the Pentagon team, he was among 32 Iraqi exiles who helped to prepare a State Department report last year on the future of Iraq. In that role, he prepared a draft of an Iraqi constitution, a task that he said he hoped to complete on behalf of a future Iraqi transitional government, among other tasks. 
"I will take care of the Ministry of Justice in Iraq, and abolish all of Saddam's legal system," he said, "to create the new legal system toward democracy that will accept human rights, that will fight corruption in Iraq, and create new laws to build democracy."
A Shiite Muslim whose family is from the holy city of Najaf, Dr. Fadhal now describes himself as a secularist who believes that Islam should play no role in Iraq's constitution. That would set a future Iraq apart even from pro-Western Arab countries like Egypt, where the Constitution describes Islam as the principal source of the country's laws.
In that regard, Dr. Fadhal's views are more secular than those of most Iraqi opposition groups, and go beyond even the most recent stance taken by the Bush administration. The White House said last month that it would not allow Iraq to become a theocratic state like Iran, but could endorse what it called an "Islamic democracy" for the country. 
Ultimately, Dr. Fadhal said, he would prefer for family reasons to work abroad for a new Iraqi government -- perhaps as its ambassador to Sweden or to a United Nations organization in Geneva. He would not rule out serving as a future Minister of Justice, but said he recognized that he and other exiles would face high hurdles.
"I have a dream," he said, "to build in Iraq a civil society, a democracy, like Switzerland or Sweden. But now there is chaos and risk -- from Islamic fanatic groups, and from the Baath Party and from the Arab terrorists who supported the Hussein government. 
"The Iraqi people have been brainwashed," he said, "and it is our responsibility to build a new brain."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 7, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about a Pentagon project to enlist exiles to help reshape Iraq referred imprecisely in some editions to official reticence. The Pentagon has been guarded in replying to inquiries about the project, citing security. But Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz made it public on Feb. 23; "under close wraps" did not signify complete silence.
In some editions the article also misstated the scope of a conversation last fall between Mr. Wolfowitz and Joanne Dickow, an Iraqi-American at the Energy Department. She spoke with him about the views of Arab-Americans and agreed to help him meet Iraqi-Americans; she did not encourage him to reach out to them as part of a campaign to rally sentiment against Iraq's rulers.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Getty Images); (Doug Mills/The New York Times); (Tracey Attlee for The New York Times); (Associated Press); (Farah Nosh for The New York Times)(pg. 24) Chart: "Iraqi Exiles, Back to Where They Started"A 150-member team of Iraqi exiles from Europe and the United States will help shape a new Iraq. Five prominent members of the team are listed below. EMAD DHIADIRECTOR OF THE IRAQI RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT COUNCILDEPARTED IRAQ: 1982He is 51 years old and has been living in Plymouth, Mich. and working as an engineer with Pfizer. In 1998 he co-founded a group called the Iraqi Forum for Democracy, whose members span Iraq's religious spectrum, according to Bush administration officials.On the Iraqi people: "They know the opposite side of democracy very well, and they are now a real subscriber of the democracy, democracy as a way of living and as a way of government. We are looking for a government in Iraq by the people, for the people." MUNTHER AL-FADHALSENIOR ADVISER TO THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICEDEPARTED IRAQ: 1991He is 52 years old and has been living in Sweden. He taught law at a number of universities including the University of Baghdad and Amman University in Jordan, and recently he was the director of the law research program at the Iraqi Future Affairs Institute.On women in Iraq: "I support also the women to play a political role in the future of Iraq, so they can be leaders in politics and the economy. It's very important because the woman is the half of the society, not the half of the man." MUHAMMAD ALI ZAINYSENIOR ADVISER TO THE MINISTRY OF OILDEPARTED IRAQ: 1982He is 64 years old and has been living in London. He was an engineer and official at Iraqs Ministry of Oil, and, after leaving Iraq, he became a U.S. citizen and has worked with the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the Center for Global Energy Studies in London.On why he would go back: "I say to myself, 'Well, Muhammad Ali, maybe this is your moment. And the quest for comfort and money is not really everything in life. Then just leave everything behind again, and go back.' " Why? Because "I feel my country needs me." KHIDHIR HAMZASENIOR ADVISER TO THE MINISTRY OF ATOMIC ENERGYDEPARTED IRAQ: 1994He is 64 years old and has been living in the Washington DC area. He graduated from the University of Baghdad and studied physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, returning to Iraq in 1970. He ran part of Iraqs nuclear weapons program until he fled, making him one of the most senior Iraqi officials ever to defect.On America's commitment: "Democracy has to be nurtured. Civil society has to take hold. The United States has to stay long enough to prevent any attempts to go back. But it is possible." SAM KAREEMSENIOR ADVISER TO THE MINISTRY OF TELECOMMUNICATIONSDEPARTED IRAQ: 1982He is 46 years old and has been living in Farmington Hills, Mich. where he was an Internet project manager for a technology company. In 1995, he started the Web site Iraq.net as a hobby, then in 1998 he became the webmaster for Mr. Dhia's group, the Iraqi Forum for Democracy.On the task ahead: "It's exciting. It's wonderful. We're making history." (Sources: News reports; Defense Department transcript of a news conference Dhia quote ; CBS interview Zainy quote ; Speech at Illinois Wesleyan University Hamza quote )(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%)

PERSON: MUHAMMAD ALI (87%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) HAKIM, DANNY; JEHL, DOUGLAS; MOSS, MICHAEL; DHIA, EMAD; FADHL, MUNTHER AL-; ZAINY, MUHAMMAD ALI; HAMZA, KHIDHIR; KAREEM, SAM; WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); ISRAEL (93%); SWEDEN (93%); EUROPE (92%); JORDAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



122 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2695 words

HEADLINE: Who Wants To Take On McGreevey? 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA FITZGERALD 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
GOVERNOR MCGREEVEY and his inner circle, embattled though they may be -- and more often than they would like -- think they have an insurance policy. They call him Bret Schundler.
 Though 2005 and the next gubernatorial election may seem like a long way off, it is also true that politicians begin their next campaign the moment the last one is over. And Mr. McGreevey's disproportionate number of missteps and sinking poll numbers over the past year have left Republicans, including Mr. Schundler, the conservative former mayor of Jersey City, eager for a rematch. 
 But what is even more startling is that Democrats have also begun questioning -- discreetly, to be sure -- how much further the governor's popularity can slip, and if it makes sense to start getting other candidates ready to step in should the need arise. 
For the next year, the challenge will be for Mr. McGreevey to prove that falling poll numbers aside -- whether they are born of ill-conceived appointments or fiscal turbulence -- it is in the state's best interest to stay the course.
Should the governor continue to falter, Democrats are poised to reconsider the race. Already the names Jon Corzine, the state's senior senator, and two South Jersey Democrats -- Assemblyman Louis Greenwald and Senator John Adler --among others, are being mentioned. 
Indeed, Politics NJ.com, a popular political Web site, recently conducted an online poll and posed the question, "Who will be the Democratic nominee for Governor in 2005?" The results, though hardly scientific, had Mr. McGreevey finishing behind Michael Murphy -- a former Morris County prosecutor who ran in the Democratic gubernatorial primary in 1997 -- and just ahead of Joe Roberts the Assembly majority leader from Camden and a business partner of the South Jersey political boss George Norcross III, and Cory Booker, a Newark councilman who gave Sharpe James a scare in last year's mayoral race.
"Right now, it looks like without a rebound in the economy he is in serious trouble," David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University, said of the governor. 
In fact, Mr. Rebovich conceded,he has had conversations with Democrat state legislators who want to increase their profiles and start lining up financial support should a 2005 campaign opportunity arise. 
Of course, any number of Republicans are considering whether to jump in, and with little wonder. A recent poll conducted by Fairleigh Dickinson University found that only 26 percent of those questioned said they believed that Governor McGreevey deserved to be re-elected.
For now, the immediate concern of both parties remains the legislative races this November; the hope among Democrats and Republicans alike is to capture the Senate, which is evenly divided, with each party holding 20 seats. But in reality, it is impossible to separate the two contests because of the simple political maxim: whoever helps mount successful battles in November will build powerful political alliances to bolster their primary chances in 2005. 
That might explain why the state Senate's newest member -- 34-year-old Thomas H. Kean Jr., son of the popular former governor, hopes to raise $50,000 this season to give to fellow Republicans in legislative races. 
The chatter, and the betting, about Mr. Kean -- who in January assumed the Senat seat vacated by Richard Bagger -- are on the rise, though for his part Mr. Kean says he has not decided whether to run in 2005, and others within the party say his youth will keep him on the sideline until 2009. 
It might also explain why Mr. Schundler is toiling behind the scenes to frame crucial issues for lawmakers to run on in November. Last week, for instance, he protested the use of taxpayer money for the construction of an arena in Pennsauken that came about through efforts of Mr. Norcross, who until recently was a key investor in a minor ice hockey team that hopes to play there. 
What is more, Mr. Schundler -- who is credited with rescuscitating Jersey City, the state's second-largest city, when he was mayor through a program of attractive tax abatements to lure developers to the waterfront -- has begun circulating a proposal to help solve the state's problem of rising property taxes.
Though Mr. Schundler says he is not ready to unveil his plan, Republicans who have been briefed say the idea involves changing the state constitution to guarantee annual increases in aid to every school district. Details remain sketchy, however, on where the state revenue would come from to pay for those increases. The goal is to provide districts with a greater degree of predictability in planning their budgets. 
So for a man who has not yet decided to run, Mr. Schundler is showing all the signs of being politically active.
He has been popping up -- in a style reminiscent of Mr. McGreevey after he lost to Gov. Christie Whitman in 1997 -- at most events on the Republican circuit as well as meeting with potential supporters in their homes. 
"This is a warm-up exercise for the second coming of King Bret," said one Republican consultant. "There is no doubt that he will reprise his campaign."
For his part, Mr. Schundler says that for now he wants to study the issues and discuss them.
"I want to be focusing on the problems in this state that have to be addressed," he said. "I want to bring people together to develop ideas that achieve the kind of balance that make them both workable and politically implementable."
Balance is the operative word here. For Mr. Schundler, his challenge, once again, is appealing to his supporters on the right to get through the primary, and then tacking to the left to appeal to the more moderate elements in his party as well as cross-over Democrats and independents. That suits Mr. McGreevey and his supporters, who are confident that if this scenario plays out as did when the two men faced each other in 2001 --the governor will coast into a second term despite a litany of troubled appointments, a bad fiscal hand and a smattering of faulty political judgments.
For their part, supporters of Mr. Schundler say their candidate was hobbled last time by a particularly bitter primary battle waged with the acting Republican governor at the time, Donald DiFrancesco, who backed out of the race because of ethical questions but still withheld his support from Mr. Schundler. And then came Sept. 11, 2001, which took all the oxygen out of whatever campaign had been taking place.
Recognizing Mr. Schundler's Achillle's heel, of course, any number of Republicans legislators are ready to dive in.
State Senator Joseph Kyrillos Jr., the state Republican chairman, has a built-in advantage if he decides to run. As party chairman, Mr. Kyrillos controls the money that flows into the state's Republican campaign headquarters and is in regular contact with the county chairman. 
For his part, Mr. Kyrillos, from Middletown, said he has not decided whether to run and is focused solely on the November legislative races.
"There is an ever-growing mindset that Governor McGreevey is not up to the job and that people are not pleased with his and his allies style of leadership and are looking to make a change," he said. 
And there are several issues that he said he would like to take up in the coming year, like the possibility of making the state Legislature a full-time occupation. While that would require raising the salaries of the state lawmakers, he said, it could reduce the potential for conflicts of interest by eliminating the need for them to hold jobs in the private sector. He would also like to see an elected state auditor who could focus on monitoring how money earmarked for public education is spent as well as consider whether vouchers f0r students in failing school districts.
Then there is State Senator Leonard Lance of Hunterdon, who has appeal as a fiscal conservative and an environmentalist; Robert Ray, a former Whitewater independent counsel; and Representative Frank LoBiondo, who in the past pledged not to serve more than 12 years in Congress and is approaching that self-imposed limit. 
State Senator Diane Allen -- a moderate who despite little financial backing made an impressive showing in last year's Senate primary -- is also expected to run. And then there is United States Attorney Chris Christie -- who has made headlines by zealously prosecuting government corruption cases -- is well as John Murphy, the Morris County freeholder director.
But Republicans, who have stumbled in recent statewide races, are still showing signs of disarray. At a gathering of party members earlier this year, leaders begged for unity this spring so they could focus on taking back the Legislature. Yet a number of Republican incumbents -- including 35-year state Senate veteran Robert Littell, face primary challenges, and conservatives have decided to field candidates in an array of races.
A number of candidates -- incumbents and challengers alike -- have already sought the endorsement of Mr. Schundler, who corralled much of the conservative vote to beat former Representative Bob Franks in the 2001 gubernatorial primary. So far, however, Mr. Schundler has remained on the sidelines. 
"As far as the political landscape, I don't really worry much," Mr. Schundler said. "I'm more interested in solving problems and listening to people's thoughts."
Rick Shafton, a Republican consultant to several of the conservative candidates, says that for now, that is the best course to follow. "If he were to back these conservative candidates he would energize conservatives behind him," he said. "If he doesn't do that he might find it more difficult. But if he endorses the incumbents he hurts himself."
Another Republican consultant, Larry Weitzner, dismisses the notion that state party is fractured, calling it "a myth."
"We've never been more united, and Jim McGreevy is uniting us," Mr. Weitzner said. "His failure as governor is a unifying message among moderates and conservatives."
Going further, he said that although Mr. Schundler lost in 2001, it was not because of Republican disloyalty. "There is a myth that Schundler lost the election because of moderate Republicans, but exit polls show he had solid moderate support," Mr. Weitzner said. "His weakness was that he failed to attract any independents, women or cross-over Democrats, which is absolutely essentital to winning an election in New Jersey."
Mr. Lance, a member of the Budget Committee, believes the party should rally around the one thing all party members can agree on: sound fiscal policies. He would like to see a reduction in the state's debt and a restructuring of the way it allocates education money to the neediest school districts.
In addition to having a handle on the issues and an easy relationship with the press, Mr. Lance has a political pedigree of his own; his father, Wesley L. Lance, was a Senate president, and his great-uncle, H. Kiefer Lance, served in the Assembly.
Since the governor has only been in office a little more than a year, there is plenty of time for the Republicans to debate among themselves on a strategy in the coming campaigns. One idea is simply to portray Governor McGreevey as a political insider beholden to Democratic bosses like Mr. Norcross and John Lynch, the powerful former state senator, or wealthy benefactors like Charles Kushner, a developer who withdrew his name from consideration as chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey after Republicans complained that he had violated campaign finance law while donating hundreds of thousands of dollars to Mr. McGreevey and other Democrats.
Mr. Kushner denies any wrongdoing, and Mr. McGreevey's aides said the governor was unaware of any questionable donations. But Republicans pointed to the nomination as a stark example of political cronyism. 
Yet some political observers say that strategy could fail in the fall elections for two reasons. For one thing, John Bennett, the Senate co-president and the state's highest-ranking Republican, has been accused of having profited a little too handsomely from his legal work for local governments. And recently, Mr. Bennett defended having put both his mother and mother-in-law on the state payroll. For now, Mr. Bennett's future within the Republication Party can best be described as uncertain.
Should Republicans come at the governor over the issue of ethics, Mr. Rebovich of Rider said Democrats would have plenty of room for a counterattack. Moreover, the Democrats have natural constituencies -- union workers and minorities voters -- that usually turn out in large numbers on election day. Nor is Mr Rebovich convinced that Governor McGreevey's foibles will prove to be a factor in the local legislative races.
"These races are all about lawmakers showing their local constituencies what they can do for them," he said.
Yet the themes tried out by Republicans in November will no doubt be precursors to the strategies pursued in 2005. Then, they say, there will be such issues as property taxes and school aid to take up, not to mention the anger Mr. McGreevey unwittingly provoked by cutting financing for the arts. The Republicans also see opportunities to highlight their philosophies on issues like business and the economy, which will strike a chord with voters who are out of work or facing layoffs.
For starters, Republicans plan to show how Governor McGreevey's increase in corporate business taxes and his proposal to do away with business incentives will cost New Jersey residents jobs by forcing companies to flee the state, put off any plans for expansion or reduce payrolls.
Mr. LoBiondo has already criticized Governor McGreevey for proposing to raise casino and hospitality taxes, and Mr. Schundler has taken his shot as well, charging that it is counterproductive to eliminate incentives and calling them "they biggest tools in state government's tool box for attracting new jobs to New Jersey."
As for Mr. Kean, he says Republicans should not focus on just one issue, but instead present to voters what he sees as three crucial problem areas: fiscal, social and ethical. To that end, he has positioned himself well. Mr. Kean was a sponsor of a campaign finance reform bill, he was appointed by fellow Republicans to study better ways for the state to finance its poorest school districts and he has gained attention on the issue of restoring financing for the arts. 
In addition, he -- along with fellow Republicans -- is expected to offer an an alternative budget strategy to the McGreevey spending plan later this year.
An astute political observer, Mr. Kean has no doubt learned the lessons from two of the Republican Party's most notable moderates -- his father, Gov. Thomas H. Kean, and Mr. Franks, for whom he served as a legislative aide. 
Mr. Kean, who has been in office only three years, is considered by some too young to seek statewide office in 2005. But if he follows in his father's footsteps he will probably make a run. He is aware that it usually takes most candidates in New Jersey at least one run at statewide office before winning. His father has often said that his first unsuccessful attempt to gain the Republican gubernatorial nomination taught him essential lessons for coming back and winning against Mr. Florio in 1981. 
The key to 2005, Mr. Rebovich said, is who will emerge this year to fill what he sees as a leadership void within the party. So far, he says, that charismatic candidate -- one who can appeal to voters and hold together a fractious party -- has not yet emerged.
"Republicans do not have a game plan yet," he said. "Maybe they are waiting for the primary season to end, but they have a vacuum to fill."
Understandably, Republicans vehemently disagree. They say no matter who they field as a candidate, the election is invariably going to be --for the first time in his political career --a referendum on Governor McGreevey.
"Eight years ago nobody forcused on McGreevey," Mr. Weitzner said. "The issue was Christie Whitman. In 2001, McGreevey made Bret Schundler the issue. In 2005, Jim McGreevey is the issue. That's what the election is going to be all about, regardless of who the Republican candidate is."

GRAPHIC: Photos: State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., above, who has been in office only three years, is at 34 considered too young by some to seek the governor's office in 2005. Bret Schundler, left, who put on a happy face after losing toJames McGreevey in 2001, has been busy and is considered likely to try another run. (Dith Pran/The New York Times, top, and Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Political talk: At Monmouth University, above, Dr. Saliba Sarsar, left, with Assemblyman John S. Wisniewski, Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr. and Dr. Frederick Hermann. More political talk, at left: Senator Joseph Kyrillos Jr., left, the state Republican chairman, with Bret Schundler, the party's gubernatorial nominee in 2001. (Dith Pran/The New York Times, above, and Associated Press, below left); Senator John Bennett is the state's highest-ranking Republican, but his future within the party is said to be uncertain. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MAYORS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: JOHN ADLER (77%); JON CORZINE (59%) MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); FITZGERALD, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



123 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION; 
Gimme an A-Plus

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

 BODY:
DURING his four years at Yale in the 1960's, President Bush was a bit of a slouch in the classroom. For instance, Mr. Bush got a 73 in "Introduction to the American Political System" and a 71 in "Introduction to International Relations." In general, his grades were the proverbial "gentleman's C."
 Still, the future 43rd president graduated in the 21st percentile of his class -- not sterling, but still ahead of a number of undergraduates waltzing off with sheepskins on that spring day in New Haven. 
 Today, Mr. Bush would probably be getting pushed out the Ivy door.
That is one conclusion that could be drawn from the a study released this spring by a faculty committee at Princeton that was responding to building alarm over grade inflation. It discovered that everyone does seem to be faring better these days at one of the nation's more competitive universities. 
The study showed that the average grade point average for the Princeton class of 2002 was 3.46, more or less an A-minus average. Someone who got a 3.0, or a straight B, would have graduated 923rd out of 1,079. While officials at Princeton refused to be interviewed about the report, the spokeswoman, Lauren Robinson-Brown, issued a statement saying: "In recent years, we have taken a number of steps to curtail grade inflation, such as requiring written justification any time a faculty member awards an A-plus. We continue to monitor the situation and to work on it."
This is not just a Princeton issue. "This is a national problem, and it becomes more so when you become more and more selective in your student body," said Stephen Briggs, provost at the College of New Jersey in Ewing. "Forty percent of our incoming students now are state scholars or similar. Fifteen years ago, maybe 5 percent were. Would we expect grades to go up in that time? Of course. But you still have to think about what that means."
A national study of grades at a wide swath of American universities, which can be found at www.Gradeinflation.com, showed that at nearly every one, average grades have gone up in recent years. At the University of Pennsylvania, the average grade point average rose to 3.32 in 2001 from 3.16 in 1993. At Stanford, the jump was from 3.04 in 1968 to 3.44 in 1992. And even in less rarefied air -- at the University of Minnesota -- the average went from 2.33 in the 1960's to 3.0 today.
"I'd think that at a public university, where students vary a great deal in their preparation and background, it is less of an issue than at an elite institution like Princeton," said Margaret Marsh, dean of the school of arts and sciences at Rutgers-Camden. "But few people anywhere are giving D's, I'm sure. Things have changed everywhere."
Most academics trace the beginning of grade inflation to the student deferments of the Vietnam War-era of the 1960's and early 70's. To help keep students in the classroom and out of the Mekong Delta, professors ratcheted grades up a bit, or at least stopped flunking students or giving them D's. From there, grades started inching even higher, since it was hard to deny better grades to students who were really doing well.Eventually, some universities started issuing a grade of A-plus, though they later eliminated that in an effort to slow grade inflation. That has hardly helped. In Harvard's class of 2002, 91 percent graduated with honors.
"Culturally, we have to go back to re-define what a C means," said Cindy Vitto, a professor of English at Rowan University in Glassboro. "The average G.P.A. for all students here in 2001 was 3.0, which means B is average now, not C. Now C is about as close to failing as you can get.
"I don't believe we are any less demanding as teachers. But I had a colleague who had a student crying in the office because she got an A-minus. That is disturbing."
With stiff competition for medical school, law school, business school and a top Ph.D. program, the urge to get outstanding grades is only natural. Yet those who screen applicants are wise to the ways of inflation.
"Admissions is an impressionistic evaluation for the most part," said Rayman Solomon, dean of the Rutgers School of Law in Camden. "It is based on the general knowledge of the quality of universities and colleges. So any given year, you compare, say, the law boards of someone who got a 3.8 from Princeton against those of another 3.8 from Princeton, so grade inflation isn't a real concern. The problem comes when someone 10 years out of Princeton applies. But even then, we can deal with that problem."
The solution could be issuing two grades -- pass and no credit -- as Richard Stockton College in Pomona did in the 1970's and 80's. Depending on the subject, the pass-fail system had an obvious allure.
"You had to write a page or two about each student as an evaluation," said Ms. Marsh, who taught at Stockton then. "It was extremely difficult, but it did give a complete impression of the student.
"In the end, though, it was students who started clamoring for grades," she added. "The whole thing is a little sad. Students now seem to identify with their grades rather than the knowledge from the classroom, forgetting that 10 years from now, no one will be asking them about their G.P.A."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Princeton, a study shows grade inflation is not abating. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADE INFLATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADES & GRADING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); POLITICS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) STRAUSS, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



124 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS; 
It Almost Seems Like Torricelli And Lautenberg All Over Again

BYLINE:  By Raymond Hernandez 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ONLY months ago, Representative Robert Menendez pulled Governor McGreevey aside and asked him to help round up support for his bid to land a coveted leadership post in the House.
 Mr. McGreevey was more than happy to help, mindful that Mr. Menendez, a powerful Hudson County Democrat, was a major force in getting him elected governor in 2001, according to one official close to the governor. 
 Mr. McGreevey worked the telephones, urging fellow Democratic governors to put in a good word for Mr. Menendez with members of Congress in their own states. In the end, Mr. Menendez wound up narrowly winning the post he was seeking.
That episode, in many ways, captures how close Mr. McGreevey and Mr. Menendez, two of New Jersey's most powerful Democrats, had become.
But these days, Mr. McGreevey and Mr. Menendez are suddenly bitter rivals, locked in a roiling battle that is as much over policy differences as clashing personal ambitions and political realities.
There is a lot riding on this for Mr. McGreevey, who -- weakened by a series of troublesome nominations, assorted gaffes and having the misfortune of holding office during a time of economic uncertainty -- can ill-afford to jeopardize any more of his constituency.
As for Mr. Menenedez, though he casts a large shadow in Washington as chairman of the Democratic caucus in the House, the No. 3 leadership position among Democrats, all politics is local and he may feel he has to mobilize his Hispanic base of support.
It is a feud as open and politically significant as the one that erupted a few years ago between two other New Jersey titans, Frank Lautenberg and Robert G. Torricelli, when the two men were serving in the United States Senate together.
"We're quite baffled by it," the official close to Mr. McGreevey said. "The two have always had a good relationship."
Over the past few weeks, Mr. Menendez has publicly rebuked Mr. McGreevey, accusing him of neglecting the Hispanic community, an increasingly important New Jersey voting bloc, by withdrawing his support for Zulima Farber for the state Supreme Court.
Mr. McGreevey said he withdrew the his support for Ms. Farber, a former public advocate who was born in Cuba, only after he learned that a bench warrant had been issued for her arrest when she did not appear in court for a traffic ticket.
But Mr. Menendez says, in effect, that he does not buy that explanation, contending that Mr. McGreevey withdrew his support for Ms. Farber so he could name a black candidate, John E. Wallace, a judge from Gloucester County, to replace Justice James H. Coleman Jr., who was the first black appointed on the court, in response to demands of black leaders.
In a recent interview, Mr. Menendez said the governor's "political calculus" in deciding to replace Ms. Farber with a black nominee was "that Hispanics will be upset, but they don't revolt as much as African Americans."
"Enough is enough," he said, claiming that the Farber episode was just the latest in a series of insults by the McGreevey administration toward a constituency that Mr. McGreevey had courted assiduously during the gubernatorial campaign.
He noted that there are no Hispanic officials in the governor's inner circle. 
"When you look at the totality, you say, 'Oh my God,"' he said.
"I have my finger stuck in the dike with the Hispanic community," he said, referring to what he claimed was the pent-up frustration of Latino voters.
F0r now, the New Jersey political establishment is watching to see how Mr. McGreevey, whose handling of the state crisis budget has already hurt him in the polls, moves to calm his stormy relationship with Mr. Menendez, a county leader who can hurt the governor politically should he decide to run for re-election.
Indeed, many Democrats say that it was Mr. Menendez who effectively blocked Mr. Torricelli's attempts to push Mr. McGreevey aside in 2001 and wrest the gubernatorial nomination for himself.
So far, the governor and his aides have refused to challenge Mr. Menendez, preferring instead to stay above the fray. In fact, Mr. McGreevey's office declined a recent request to comment publicly on the matter.
But behind the scenes, people close to the governor are sharpening the knives. The McGreevey camp is accusing Mr. Menendez of engaging in ethnic politics to advance his own political ambitions.
They say Mr. Menendez has political problems back home, where he and Mayor Glenn D. Cunningham of Jersey City are engaged in a struggle over who will dominate Hudson County, a place long known for its bare-knuckle politics.
The McGreevey camp contends that Mr. Menendez played the ethnic card to solidify his base of Hispanic support in the county, where Mr. Cunningham has encouraged Democrats to challenge Mr. Menendez for his congressional seat.
"I think he's actually used the governor to get some press stories and some oomph in the Hispanic community," one person close to the governor said. 
More than that, though, the McGreevey camp says that Mr. Menendez, who has considered running for statewide office, may have hurt himself among crucial black voters with his ethnically charged comments.
"He may have hurt himself by saying the governor caved to African-Americans," one McGreevey loyalist said mischievously.
People close to Mr. McGreevey insist that he was completely prepared to push Ms. Farber's candidacy, but that the disclosures about her driving record made it impossible for her nomination to get confirmed by the Senate.
"She never would have been confirmed," said the McGreevey ally. "That's just a fact of life."
Ms. Farber, for her part, has said that she never received any notice that she had to appear in court to respond to the traffic charge, and has accused the governor's spokesmen of making "defamatory statements" about her.
The McGreevey camp says the governor was himself disappointed over having to withdraw his support for Ms. Farber -- largely because he was aware of how much her nomination meant to Mr. Menendez, a man he regarded as a close ally.
The governor even made a special trip to Mr. Menendez's Washington office to break the news to the congressman himself, the person recalled.
"He personally traveled to Washington, D.C., to tell him," he said. "That's how much he thought of their relationship."
But now it is unlikely the controversy will fade any time soon. Waving an olive branch at the Hispanic community, the McGreevey administration recently decided to restore nearly $1.6 million in cuts that the governor had proposed for Hispanic organizations. But in a recent interview, Mr. Menendez made it clear that that was not enough.
"He's going to have to make significant appointments," Mr. Menendez said, calling on the governor to appoint Hispanics to top jobs in Trenton.
He also expressed disappointment that Mr. McGreevey did not seize a chance to make history and appoint the first Hispanic person to the high court. 
"I like the guy, but that doesn't buy my silence," Mr. Menendez said of Mr. McGreevey. "He had an opportunity to have a huge historic impact." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); ARRESTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); ARREST WARRANTS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (93%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (89%) HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); MENENDEZ, ROBERT (REPR); LAUTENBERG, FRANK R (SEN); TORRICELLI, ROBERT G 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



125 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
Jordan's Strained Ties to Wizards May Be Cut

BYLINE:  By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
A meeting planned for later this week between Michael Jordan and the Washington Wizards' owners, Abe Pollin and Ted Leonsis, was intended as a discussion about Jordan's possible return to the team's front office, but it may instead end their partnership. 
 Mounting player resentment toward Jordan and ownership's concerns about Jordan's work ethic as an executive -- along with Jordan's misgivings about the franchise's future -- have changed the relationship between Jordan and the franchise, according to two team officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 Another Eastern Conference official, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said yesterday that Jordan's advisers had been seeking to set up meetings about Jordan's potential ownership of other N.B.A. teams. The move has further infuriated the Wizards' ownership.
If the partnership does end, it will result in an organizational overhaul and the possible removal of Coach Doug Collins. 
"All issues pertaining to the future direction of the franchise will be discussed later this week," Pollin, 79, said through a spokesman.
A spokeswoman said the recently retired Jordan would not comment, and a Wizards representative said Collins was on vacation and was not expected to return messages.
In an e-mail reply, Leonsis, the AOL vice chairman who is the majority owner of the N.H.L.'s Washington Capitals and a minority owner of the Wizards, also declined to comment until after the meeting.
The first wave of change came Friday when Wes Unseld, the team's general manager for the past seven years, announced that he was taking a leave of absence after the N.B.A. draft on June 26, although Unseld's departure had more to do withhealth concerns. 
The Wizards, who finished with a record of 37-45 for the second consecutive season, did not make the playoffs for the sixth straight time. The off-season acquisitions of Jerry Stackhouse and Larry Hughes failed to produce the desired results. The Wizards' season ended in disarray, with Collins complaining about players' disrespect for his authority and with the thinly veiled criticism of Jordan by some of his teammates.
"Without Michael, we could be just as good of a team," Stackhouse recently told The Washington Post. "I look forward to that challenge and I know other guys in this locker room, even though they may not say it, are looking forward to that challenge, too."
Players who originally bought into Jordan's mystique soon became disenchanted with his constant criticism. That ill will, the officials said, may lead to Jordan's departure.
In the season's final days, when many of Jordan's teammates were asked if they wanted to contribute to a retirement gift, the Wizards arrived quickly at a collective decision: no.
When asked to pinpoint the demise of the team in exit interviews with Unseld, they bit their tongues. Seated nearby were Rod Higgins, the assistant general manager, and Fred Whitfield, the director of player personnel, both close friends of Jordan, who hired both men.
"I didn't feel like I could be honest," said one player, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "If Mike goes upstairs again, he's got control of my career."
The unrest and unpleasantness grew as the season wore on. Somewhere between the fanfare Jordan created in a woebegone franchise and two more losing seasons, players began to resent the icon who was supposed to lead the way to the postseason.
The two officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said Jordan thought he could use his executive position on the court to bring about change in his teammates. But players resisted.
According to one official, Hughes was explicitly told by Jordan to get him the ball if he wanted to play. When Hughes began passing it to Stackhouse as much as to Jordan, he was soon benched.
Point guard Tyronn Lue, the official said, obliged and began finding Jordan every time he played. "He was scared to death of what would happen to him in his career if he didn't," the player said of Lue. "He was always looking at the bench at Michael."
If the players did not take issue with Jordan in their final interviews, they did show unanimity in another way: every player laced into Collins.
Several players felt Collins was caught serving two masters: the organization and Jordan. Collins was told by management on several occasions to coach the team as if he were in charge and not Jordan. But the players, according to the officials, felt Jordan's influence superseded that of Collins, and it led to much friction. Hughes, Stackhouse, Christian Laettner and Bryon Russell were some of the most vocal players, but in the end most of them took issue with Jordan.
Some Wizards were especially bothered by Jordan's knack for upstaging them on national television, something he routinely did in Chicago during his championship runs with the Bulls.
"When you're winning, everybody justifies it, like, 'Oh, Michael, he's teaching the young guys,' " the player said. "When you're not, it's embarrassing. For us, it got old quick."
Kwame Brown and Brendan Haywood became two of the focal points for criticism from both Collins and Jordan.
One of the officials said even the acquisition of Stackhouse came about partly because of a player unwilling to defer to Jordan. Late last fall, Richard Hamilton and Jordan got into an ugly shouting match. The two officials said it began when Hamilton told Jordan he was tired of being a "Jordannaire," the term used for Jordan's role players in Chicago. 
"Rip was a young, brash guy who threatened the idea of Michael being the guy here," the official said. "He was promptly gotten rid of for Stackhouse."
A person close to Jordan denied Hamilton was traded because of a personality conflict. He insisted contractual issues led to the Stackhouse deal. 
In the season's final weeks, players openly complained about the double standards for Jordan. Promptly dressed and ready to speak with reporters after games, they were forced to wait in the locker room for 15 or 20 minutes while Jordan showered and dressed in a private room.
Jordan's return to the court two seasons ago was heralded as the last, great chapter of his playing career.
Two years before then, the Jordan-Pollin union began smoothly. Before hiring Jordan to run the basketball operation and giving him a piece of the team's ownership, Pollin and his wife, Irene, invited Jordan to dinner.
Jordan immediately turned the Wizards into a player-friendly organization. A player lounge with all the amenities was built at the MCI Center and the family lounge was upgraded. The team's old charter plane was sold so the Wizards could fly in the luxurious surroundings offered by the N.B.A.-sponsored charter service. Expensive contracts were eaten to clear salary-cap room for better players.
The scouting department, once composed of Unseld, his son and Chuck Douglas, added former Jordan teammates and friends to keep pace in a growing international market.
But there were no immediate dividends in the standings. The team was 36-89 with Jordan as an executive in two seasons -- a .288 winning percentage. Despite sellouts and streams of revenue created from ticket sales and merchandising, Jordan's two years as a player were marred by two seasons without a playoff berth. Other than Jahidi White, every player on the current Wizards roster was acquired with Jordan's consent.
Jordan had to sell his stake in the Wizards when he resumed playing, but it was believed that he would buy back his ownership if he remained with the team.
While Jordan could point to how his contributions directly increased the franchise's value, Pollin and Leonsis could argue that his association has produced more short-term economic growth than any kind of winning legacy.
The two men have always been suspect of Jordan's work ethic as an executive, two team officials said. While Jordan had final say in personnel matters, Unseld was in charge of most of the legwork regarding the draft, free agency and scouting.
Jordan's absence as the primary basketball decision maker bothered the owners, according to the team officials and high-placed executives. 
Leonsis, who has enjoyed Jordan's company socially and has publicly endorsed his moves, is perturbed that Jordan has been unable to create a playoff team in a weakened Eastern Conference.
During Jordan's last tenure as director of basketball operations -- from January 2000 to October 2001 -- Pollin was concerned that Jordan's business and social calendars were too filled to tend to his duties as a Wizards executive.
Pollin, one of the officials said, became upset after this past season about Jordan's potential involvement in the front office. He was relayed a message from Jordan through intermediaries: "Don't expect to see much of Michael this summer. He has too many other commitments."
If Pollin has reservations about continuing his relationship with Jordan, the same can be said for Jordan about Pollin. Over the past three seasons, two camps have clearly formed in Washington: those people brought in or employed by Jordan and those loyal to Pollin.
The chances of both men working a deal that will include Jordan remaining with the franchise appear slim.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Teammates say Michael Jordan's problems with Richard Hamilton led to the trade for Jerry Stackhouse, right. (Associated Press)(pg. 2); Ted Leonsis, Michael Jordan and Abe Pollin became management partners with the Wizards in 2000. (Associated Press)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ATHLETES (85%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ETHICS (76%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (76%) BASKETBALL 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON WIZARDS (94%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%) WASHINGTON WIZARDS 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (94%) WISE, MIKE; LEONSIS, TED; POLLIN, ABE; JORDAN, MICHAEL

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



126 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2224 words

HEADLINE: So, Which Man Will Sell You That Drywall? 

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
AT the beginning of spring, the nursery at the Home Depot in Kingston, N.Y., was barren, bordered by rows of dead or dying saplings left over from last fall. Less than a quarter-mile away, the garden center at its fierce competitor, Lowe's, was bursting with color, set off by a new line of pseudo-teak benches.
 To Wall Street analysts and the investors who have recently deemed Lowe's the new winner in the sweepstakes of home improvement chains, Home Depot's prospects may look as bleak as the row of dead trees. Lowe's stock price is near its all-time high; Home Depot's, on the other hand, has fallen by one-third over the last year. Lowe's same-store sales, those for stores open at least a year, have been rising for years; Home Depot's have been tumbling. 
 The orange-bannered aisles at Home Depot, once at the forefront of warehouse retailing, have not changed much in the company's 24-year history. Its employees don't have the spring in their step they once did; in fact, they are often hard to find. Home Depot, still twice as big as Lowe's, has lost most of its mojo, critics say, and all of its pizazz. 
Stung by both bad numbers and bad reviews, Home Depot is battling back. The company plans to revamp all its old stores -- gutting 40 this year alone -- in an attempt to create an atmosphere that bears a remarkable resemblance to its rival's cleaner, better-illuminated stores. The changes are intended to appeal to women, increasingly the target customers for the home-improvement industry. 
To analysts, Home Depot's proposed turnaround is a strange new chapter in a rivalry that once seemed lopsided in Home Depot's favor. "Home Depot is still the six-million-pound gorilla, and for the first time they are having to deal with viable competition," said Brian Postol, a retailing analyst at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. 
Indeed, at Home Depot's headquarters in Atlanta, executives are acting like underdogs. The chief executive, Robert L. Nardelli, had a rough start: his efforts to bring in more part-time workers alienated many full-time employees and customers, who grumbled that these fresh employees didn't know what they were talking about. And many full-timers have not fully recovered from the departure of the much-admired company founders, Bernard Marcus and Arthur M. Blank. Although the two men left as part of an arranged succession plan, "we were in mourning," said Carol B. Tome, the company's chief financial officer, who has been with Home Depot for eight years. "We were all bleeding orange last year."
Now, Mr. Nardelli's team is flexing the muscles of Home Depot's great buying power -- second only to that of Wal-Mart. The chain has developed new concepts, like a paint-matching computer to replicate the exact hue of your draperies and spit out a diagram showing where to find the chip on a wall display. Angered by what it calls the misperception that Lowe's caters more to women, Home Depot is making women the focus of some new advertising campaigns.
MORE significant, Home Depot has begun to remodel all its stores -- copying the better lighting and more spacious aisles at Lowe's. (Lowe's, for its part, copied Home Depot in the early 90's, in its own game of catch-up.)
Home Depot has opened its first urban prototype store -- a (gasp!) two-story, glass-front emporium with escalators -- in the Lincoln Park neighborhood of Chicago. The store has no nursery yard because city dwellers seldom have gardens.
But gardeners elsewhere will get their own new centers. Although Home Depot is putting the brakes on the expansion of its upscale Expo home-design stores -- it is building only one more this year -- it announced last week that it had just opened eight new Landscape Supply centers. Expo, meanwhile, is lowering the bar on the income of its target market, to $50,000 from $100,000, and has added more cash-and-carry items like blenders and toasters, though deluxe ones. Home Depot's hopes, at least for now, rest on the shoulders of the moderate-income shopper.
To shorten Home Depot's long checkout lines, the company is putting self-checkout counters (tried by Kmart and others) into all its stores. The counters have been installed at 250 stores so far, and 30 percent of customers use them.
In separate interviews this month, the chief executives of Home Depot and Lowe's listed the changes they were making. The comments reflected the recent performances of their companies and their current images -- Lowe's, basking in glory, and Home Depot, humbled by errors.
(Both were careful not to criticize the other by name; instead, they used expressions like "the guys in orange" or "the other guys.")
Robert L. Tillman, the chief executive of Lowe's since 1996, took a lofty tone. "I've heard that they are now 'reinventing' themselves," he said, sitting, relaxed and tanned, at the head of a conference table at his headquarters in Wilkesboro, N.C. "Well, we have the advantage because we reinvented ourselves in 1994."
In Atlanta, Mr. Nardelli, a former protege of John F. Welch Jr. at General Electric, took the heat. "There is no question that we blew it last year," he said. "We know we have to do better."
Home Depot, with its warehoused bins of lumber, blister packs of screws and buckets of joint compound, is still the country's largest home improvement store. It has $58.2 billion in annual sales, double those at Lowe's, and second only to Wal-Mart Stores in all retailing. Its princess of latex and oil, Sophia Schade, is the world's largest purchaser of paint. She can force whole companies to change their palettes; she just persuaded Disney to come out with a new line of paint, aimed at children. (The color-sample chips have mouse ears.)
Although they boldly accept blame in some respects, Home Depot executives bridle when news articles imply that their company's lead is narrowing. "We do 10,000 installations a week," said Jerry Shields, a Home Depot spokesman. "Nobody in the industry even comes close."
But perceptions mean a lot to investors. "Don't forget, Home Depot was the darling of Wall Street for two decades," said Alan M. Rifkin, a retail analyst at Lehman Brothers. "But this year -- let's face it -- Lowe's has had superior growth, and Wall Street has been enamored with Lowe's." 
Still, Mr. Rifkin said that to a certain extent, Mr. Nardelli had been blamed unfairly. "The timing was bad," he said. "Home Depot may have begun deteriorating before he arrived."
In 1980, Lowe's was the old fogey, a string of medium-size hardware stores that was founded in 1946. Home Depot was youth personified; its warehouse-style "big box" stores were implanted in neighborhoods and breezed past all competition.
In 1980, the stock price of Lowe's was less than 50 cents. By 1994, the ailing company had reorganized itself, building bigger concrete-block stores and shamelessly copying Home Depot's warehouse look. 
Each company has enormous buying power. Last year, after Home Depot managed to persuade John Deere to sell lawn tractors in its stores and to create several less-expensive models -- one sells for $1,499, about 25 percent less than the old bottom-of-the-line Deere -- Lowe's recruited Troybilt, an old-line lawn tractor maker, to build and sell a line of similarly priced models. Pella, the large manufacturer of wooden windows, had been selling at both Home Depot and Lowe's. This year, Lowe's persuaded Pella to pull out of Home Depot, but also to make its first vinyl-clad window, as well as its first storm door. 
Lowe's has 875 stores, all in the United States, compared with 1,568 for Home Depot in the United States, Canada and Mexico . Lowe's plans to open 130 stores this year; Home Depot plans 200. 
Their chief executives are reluctant to make comparisons about pricing; neither claims to be cheaper. "We aim to beat the competition in service and quality of product," Mr. Tillman said.
BOTH companies try to recruit retired plumbers and electricians for the sales force, but often fail. "What retired electrician would want to work here?" asked Larry D. Stone, senior executive vice president for operations at Lowe's. "More likely, we might find the electrician's assistant, who knows a lot, and who can talk to our customers about what they should buy and give them some advice on how to fix things."
When it comes to catering to women, Home Depot is understandably sensitive. Women make up more than half the population, but some surveys say they make 85 percent of the decisions on home renovation. To support their claim, Home Depot officials produced a study by Forrester Research, comparing the chains' customer bases.
The study, released in January, found the stores' gender mix identical: 45 percent of the customers at both chains were women. The shopper profiles were similar, too, although Home Depot shoppers were slightly better educated and made slightly more money. 
Lowe's, which began in small and midsize markets, has been moving into larger cities in the last two years. Home Depot is responding on this count, too. A top executive said the chain hopes to announce a location in Manhattan by year-end. The New York store may look like the glassy, more compact one that opened in Chicago last month.
"A regular Home Depot just wouldn't fit here," said James Warrington, global product manager, speaking of the Chicago store. The old Home Depot prototype is 100,000 square feet -- all on one level -- and that's hard to achieve in the city, where space is at a premium.
Perhaps the biggest challenge for Home Depot is to modernize its older stores. Mr. Nardelli said it had budgeted $250 million just for remodeling; it has already installed new paint counters, now with selections to rival -- some say surpass -- those at Lowe's. In designer panache, Lowe's pits Alexander Julian against Home Depot's Ralph Lauren, and throws in Laura Ashley and a range of paint colors endorsed by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
Last year, Home Depot sold 100 million gallons of paint. Although Lowe's won't release its number, it says its volume would paint a seven-foot-wide strip to the moon and back. To strengthen sales, Home Depot has introduced a machine that will match any color -- that of a favorite daffodil, for example -- just by sticking the flower in the machine's photosensor. It will find the right shade of yellow on the paint rack and display on a computer screen how it would look in a room. Lowe's has a computerized color finder, too, though it is less sophisticated.
But Lowe's has a blinds-and-draperies section that Home Depot might envy, and has appliance sales that are second only to those of Sears, Roebuck. To compete, Home Depot has installed its new Design Places, full of carpeting and appliances, in 875 stores.
Lowe's has begun selling pricier merchandise and has been beefing up its own installation services, which have the grand pitch of a high-priced architect: "We want to do your whole house," Mr. Tillman said, "and deliver it to you."
For the last several years, Home Depot has been under attack for its diminishing in-store service; increasingly, just trying to buy something in one of its stores can be a tense experience.
Self-checkout is coming to all Home Depot stores, but it obviously has not arrived at one in Berlin, Conn. There was only one cashier working on a recent Saturday night; the other 13 registers were closed. Customers waited angrily in line; one elderly man threw down his purchases and stomped out.
Told about that situation, Mr. Nardelli shook his head. "We're trying hard to get the self-checkouts in as fast as we can," he said. 
ANALYSTS have detected a decline in Home Depot's service, which was once so good that it inspired hordes of copycats. "Service at Home Depot got a little lax," said Mr. Rifkin of Lehman Brothers, adding that Home Depot has pledged to "invigorate its sales force."
Yet in random visits to several Northeast stores the last two months, it was hard to find sales help. When employees were spotted and their advice sought, several said the question was outside their expertise.
Visits to several Lowe's stores required similar searches for help. But at Lowe's, consumers can press buzzers in each department that not only summon an employee but also record the response time.
There is no question that Lowe's sees itself as a tough competitor, the one to beat. A series of interviews with executives at the company showed a gritty desire to win the race. "Frankly, I don't see any reason why we can't have as many stores as they do," Mr. Tillman said.
But as No. 2 grows, so does No. 1.
"I don't think Lowe's will catch up anytime soon," Mr. Rifkin said. But that does not mean that one of them will be driven out of business.
"There's room for both," added Mr. Rifkin, who has given neutral ratings to both companies' stocks because of the generally uncertain economy. "There's room for two big-box home improvement stores in any given market; the problem comes when there are three."
Which brings up Wal-Mart, the country's largest retail chain. It also sells paint, appliances and some home improvement products. Both chief executives were asked if they were looking over their shoulders.
"Well, I've been telling them they should work more on developing their food," said Mr. Tillman, with a wink. He paused. "And their clothing. They could be really strong in clothing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert L. Nardelli, left, chief executive of Home Depot, is trying to regain the momentum in home-improvement retailing from his counterpart at Lowe's, Robert L. Tillman. (Nell Redmond for The New York Times); (Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Lowe's succeeded partly by using the Home Depot formula and then creating its own look. Now, Home Depots like the new one in Chicago, left, resemble Lowe's stores, like the one in North Bergen, N.J., right. (Bloomberg News)(pg. 12) Chart: "Sizing Up the Sawhorses"Home Depot has been displaced by Lowe's as the favored home-improvement stock on Wall Street. Although Home Depot is twice the size of Lowe's, its comparable-store sales have fallen and its profit margin is not growing nearly as fast. Graph tracks share prices of both Home Depot and Lowe's (monthly through Friday) from 1993-2003 Graphs track sales, comparable store sales (annual change), profit margin (net earnings as a percentage of sales), and planned openings (number of stores) for Lowe's and Home Depot from 1993-2003. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; company reports)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (78%); SWEEPSTAKES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (74%); HOME REMODELING (73%); SUCCESSION PLANS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%) HOME REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; WOMEN; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); LOWE'S COS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: HOME DEPOT INC; LOWE'S COS 

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); LOW (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (91%) SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS; 

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (90%); ARTHUR M BLANK (58%) ROZHON, TRACIE; NARDELLI, ROBERT L; TILLMAN, ROBERT L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003 



127 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
A tale of electronic codependence: Dad waits for his son to return from college to hook up the TV.

BYLINE:  By Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:
LET me make this clear right away: My VCR has never blinked a plaintive "12:00" for months at a stretch. I am not, by nature, helpless about these things.
 So why, exactly, did I find myself, on a recent Sunday afternoon, pulling out my remaining hair and saying unkind words to my totally innocent dog as I sat amid electronic gear, a Medusa of wires and cables, and a TV producing nothing but static? 
 Call it creeping parental incompetence. 
Much is made of the technological prowess of the younger generation. But a little-noticed side effect is the ineptitude that afflicts parents who cede the role of the household's chief technology officer to their offspring.
It wasn't always thus. In, say, 1985, I opened the box of our first VCR -- that hulking, costly novelty -- read the manual and set it up. And it worked. I set up our first computer, way back when, and it worked. But then somehow everything changed, a new pattern was set.
I can't remember just when it was, any more than you can remember the moment a headache stops. But one fateful day, when my son, Nick, was 11 or 12, I lugged in a carton containing the latest of the electronic gadgets that flow relentlessly into any self-respecting American household -- a new VCR or CD player, perhaps. I turned my back for a few minutes, and before I knew it Nick had it out of the box, hooked up and running.
Hey, I thought, that's sort of nice. It's a nuisance to figure out where all those wires go, pore through yet another pesky manual, and I was relieved to be spared this time.
Little did I know what a slippery slope I had started down.
From then on, it was a given that Nick would instantly set up whatever CD player, computer, printer, cellphone or other digital device entered the house.
It did gradually dawn on me that my ability to do these things must be slipping. Use it or lose it, they say. But I didn't think through the long-term consequences of letting these skills atrophy. Never underestimate the power of denial.
Certainly while Nick was in high school it was not a problem. If the computer froze or the VCR failed, we'd just wait for him to come home. We might have trouble getting him to do dishes and other chores, but he loved this stuff, and fixed the electronics without complaint.
Then disaster struck. He went away to college.
Some things he could walk us through on the phone -- how to download a plug-in from the Web, perhaps -- but other tasks and repairs had to wait until his next trip home. There was no way around it.
I should note that he does have a younger sister, Emily, and she knows vastly more about the computer than either doddering parent. She's a master at downloading music files, and can juggle seven instant-message conversations simultaneously (while, of course, concentrating fully on her homework). But, alas, she didn't get the fix-it gene.
The first signs of terminal helplessness came last fall, when I decided to make a built-in desk in the study. After drawing up the design, I prepared to move the computer to Nick's room during construction. Then I spied the tangle of wires that ran to all the goodies my son had hooked up to the computer over the years -- the speakers, the printer, the scanner, that little blinking thing on the floor, that odd contraption hanging on the wall. No, I thought, if I start pulling these wires out, I'll never in a thousand years get them all back in the right holes. 
This, I have to confess, was my cowardly solution: I waited for Nick to come home at Thanksgiving, to have him move the computer to his room. I built the desk. A few weeks later, when he returned for winter break, he moved it all back again. And I hate to say how quick and easy it was for him.
For a month, while he was home, all was technologically well. But after Nick returned to school, I foolishly embarked on another project -- building shelves for the basement TV and assortedgear. This, I thought, I could handle. I would just gently slide everything out without disconnecting any wires, then slide it all back onto the new shelves.
I had, alas, badly underestimated the extent of my ineptitude. There was a TV, VCR, DVD player, cable box, karaoke player for his songbird sister, some converter with an unknown purpose -- all linked by various cables. Somehow, some things got detached in the shuffle.
I gritted my teeth. I can do this, I thought. I'm a grown-up in the 21st century. I can move a TV set! I carefully followed each wire that came detached, writing down what went where, and reassembled it all with painstaking care.
Triumphantly, I turned on the TV. Nothing but static. I went over every connection again, muttering with increasing agitation. Now this goes here, so this has to go here, and this doesn't fit anywhere else, so it has to go here. And so on, for a good hour. Fortunately, only the dog was with me in the house to hear the abuse I heaped, steadily louder and more unprintable, on all things electronic. But the end result was the same: static.
Nick? Help!
Salvation is at hand, for the moment: The college year is about over.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); TRENDS (68%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (67%); CD & DVD DRIVES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); EXECUTIVES (54%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONICS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



128 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Online advertising is showing signs of revival, with multimedia playing an important role.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
IS Internet advertising finally on the rebound?
 Online analysts and interactive agencies say that a spate of positive earnings announcements, coupled with at least one industry survey, suggest that the long and ugly descent that began in 2000 has ended. And though the recovery is far from brisk, with most of the upturn benefiting only the largest Web sites, some say the pieces are in place for publishers to attract more cash from well-known advertisers as the year progresses. 
 A big question, though, is whether the trend toward in-your-face multimedia ads, made possible by the growth of high-speed Internet connections, could end up alienating as many consumers as they attract.
Among the more compelling bits of evidence pointing to an online recovery was a preliminary report last week from the Interactive Advertising Bureau, an online trade group, that advertising revenue in the fourth quarter of 2002 increased 2 percent from the third quarter. The fourth-quarter total, $1.5 billion, was 10 percent below results from the fourth quarter of 2001, but it was the second consecutive quarter-over-quarter sales increase -- something that has not happened since early 2000. 
Better-than-expected quarterly financial results posted in April by online media companies like Yahoo, Cnet, CBS MarketWatch and others, meanwhile, underscored the trend. Yahoo's first-quarter advertising sales, for example, increased 38 percent from the period a year earlier, to $190 million, on stronger revenue for paid search placements and what analysts said were steady, if unspectacular, sales of advertising banners and other sponsorships.
And Nielsen NetRatings, an online research firm, said that across the industry advertisers ran 221 billion advertisements in the first quarter, up sharply from 168 billion a year earlier.
That growth is partly a result of increased advertising from retailers and financial services providers. But perhaps more important, the number of advertisements by consumer goods manufacturers jumped to 17 billion in the first quarter, a nearly sevenfold increase from the same period last year. Marketers of shampoo, snacks and soap had long snubbed the Internet; but now that two-thirds of Americans have Internet access, and more than 80 percent of American women with children are online, consumer product companies are starting to cast their nets where the Web surfers are.
"We saw some signs last year, but this past quarter was the affirmation that this is a reasonably healthy environment for online advertising now," said Safa Rashtchy, an Internet analyst with the investment bank U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. "We're not seeing a huge upside to expectations, but we are seeing structural changes that suggest this is a little more of a long-term recovery."
Mr. Rashtchy said that low online advertising prices continued to attract marketers. And as Web site publishers have embraced standard formats for ads, he said, it has become easier for marketers to create ads that run on several sites. Publishers are also more willing to run bigger ads, which marketers see as a welcome alternative to the oft-ignored banners -- the small rectangular ads that have long been the mainstay.
Multimedia advertising, known as "rich media," is also playing a role. As more people use high-speed Internet connections, marketers are increasingly able to use motion and sound to enhance advertisements. As of March, 28 percent of home Internet users in the United States had broadband connections, an increase of 9 percent from October, according to ComScore Networks, the Internet research firm. Counting workplace use, 53 percent of all computers connected to the Internet in the United States now have broadband access.
Doubleclick, the online advertising technology and services provider, said last week that multimedia ads, which include pop-ups, accounted for 28 percent of all online ads in the first quarter -- 11 percent more than the first quarter of 2002.
That trend has encouraged Unicast, EyeWonder, Eyeblaster and other companies that provide the technology and software for multimedia ads to come up with ever more ambitious marketing approaches. Unicast, for instance, last week rolled out technology for a full-screen multimedia ad that loads while a user idles on a Web site, then plays as the person waits for the next page to appear.
Such "superstitial" technology, as it is known, was tested last month by two Unilever brands -- Snuggle laundry detergent and Slim-Fast weight-loss products -- with "very positive results," according to Brad Simmons, Unilever's vice president for media services. "Bigger is better," he said, "and rich media allows us to have the kind of sound and motion that had only been available with television."
Unilever, one of the biggest traditional marketers, "has become more positive about online," Mr. Simmons said.
In part, that is because Unilever has taken a more comprehensive approach to its branding campaigns. "We used to start a plan by asking how many 30's do we need, then seeing what's left over for everything else," he said, using industry-speak for 30-second television commercials. Now, he said, brand managers assess how print, online and other electronic media will complement one another, before buying ad slots.
Other big advertisers, like McDonald's, Estee Lauder and Dell Computer, are doing likewise. The top 200 traditional advertisers -- the largest category of online ad buyers for most of the last year -- ran 71 billion online ads in the first three months of this year, according to Nielsen NetRatings, compared with 45 billion in the first quarter of 2002. 
But the largesse is a bit lopsided. "Right now, all the money is going to the top 25 sites, like AOL, Yahoo, MSN, then CNN and others," said James Nail, an advertising analyst with Forrester Research. "That tells me marketers are still very cautious." 
Mr. Nail said the big advertisers were still a couple years away from spending significant sums on niche Web sites like iVillage. "There's still plenty of inventory in the top-tier sites," he explained. "At some point, inventory will tighten up, and marketers will have to look more afield." 
But even the niche sites are seeing some signs of life from bigger clients. According to Douglas W. McCormick, iVillage's chief executive, advertisers like Kellogg's, McDonald's, General Electric, Unilever's Dove brand and Procter & Gamble's Crest have bought full-screen ads that iVillage began offering late last year. Those ads appear for a maximum of 15 seconds before a user is taken to the iVillage home page. Users can click a link to skip the ad, and are shown the ads once a day, at most. 
Mr. McCormick said he had heard no negative reaction from the site's viewers, even though the ads are more dominant than pop-up ads, which iVillage banned from its site last year. Other publishers, as well as advertisers and technology providers, say they, too, are sensitive to the knowledge that their tactics are much less subtle than in the past, and they are listening closely for signs of an outcry like the one that accompanied pop-ups. 
They might not be listening closely enough. "I consider rich media almost as annoying as spam," said Richard M. Smith, a technology consultant well known in online privacy circles. "Some of them are just as distracting as pop-ups."
Jakob Nielsen, an Internet usability consultant, has a similar view. "In user testing, I virtually always find that users will ignore a moving or blinking design element, even if it's not an ad but actually something useful that they are looking for," he said. "It's likely that the effect of these new formats will wear off over time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Slim-Fast ad uses "superstitial" technology, which loads an ad as the user idles on a site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (92%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); RETAIL SALES (71%); RETAILERS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: PIPER JAFFRAY COS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERACTIVE ADVERTISING BUREAU (56%)

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (61%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



129 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Debt Sale Schedule For Coming Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week includes the regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills today; a four-week bill and a three-year note on Tuesday; a five-year note on Wednesday; and a 10-year note on Thursday.
 By the close of the New York cash market Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.10 percent, the six-month bill was 1.12 percent and the four-week bill 1.05 percent. In when-issued trading, the three-year note was offered at a price to yield 2.01 percent, the five-year note at 2.92 percent and the 10-year note at 3.94 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

TUESDAY
Long Beach Unified School District, Calif., $60 million general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Pasadena Unified School District, Calif., $70 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Richardson Independent School District, Tex., $110 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
University of California Regents, $364.3 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Wisconsin, $173.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
Lehigh County General Hospital Authority, Pa., $61.2 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Virginia Public School Authority, $58.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
Houston Independent School District, $283.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Mercer County, N.J., $63.3 million of debt securities. Competitive.

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Brazos River Authority, Texas Navigation District, $85 million of debt securities. Goldman, Sachs.
Corona, Calif., $70 million of cogeneration and water recycling revenue bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
Fort Bend, Tex., $70 million of unlimited tax toll road revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Kentucky Housing, $71 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
Long Island Power Authority, $300 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Louisville and Jefferson County Airports, Ky., $153 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
Modesto Irrigation District, Calif., $95 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, N.Y., $490 million transportation revenue bonds. First Albany.
New Hampshire Municipal Bond Bank, $71.4 million of debt securities. A. G. Edwards.
North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Authority, $250 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
North Texas Authority, $370 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Orange County, Calif., $52 million of debt securities for John Wayne Airport. Bear, Stearns.
Connecticut, $260 million of debt securities. UBS PaineWebber.
Washington State Economic Development Finance Authority, $68.7 million of taxable economic development revenue bonds. Morgan Keegan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (70%); AIRPORTS (67%); RIVERS (64%); POWER COGENERATION (63%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (63%); IRRIGATION (61%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); HOSPITALS (51%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (53%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%); NORTH CAROLINA EASTERN MUNICIPAL POWER AGENCY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



130 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2031 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
America's Broadband Dream Is Alive in Korea

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON with MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
As Cho Won Hee zips effortlessly from one Web site to another, his doting mother at his side, it is easy to understand why Silicon Valley views South Korea as the promised land of instant access to the Internet.
 The Chos' high-speed digital line -- 100 times faster than the typical dial-up connection in the United States -- is their zippy gateway to home entertainment, education and shopping, all for $32 a month. And despite the relatively recent arrival of such connections, the Chos, like many Koreans, are already as addicted to their broadband hookup as most Americans are to their television sets. 
 The Chos are at the cutting edge of South Korea's grand experiment with all things broadband, the catch-all name for high-speed digital connections. With a hefty push from the government, South Korea's telecommunications providers have built the world's most comprehensive Internet network, supplying affordable and reliable access that far surpasses what is available in the United States, even in those homes that have their own broadband setup. 
And now that most of the nation is online at high speeds, South Koreans are shifting more of their analog lives to their computers, where they watch soap operas, attend virtual test preparation schools, sing karaoke and, most of all, play games.
By embracing broadband so heartily, Koreans have turned their country into a test case for the visionaries who, just a few years ago, imagined a future of nearly infinite digital possibilities. While those dreams have hit speed bumps in the United States and elsewhere, South Korea -- with Japan not far behind -- is racing ahead.
In the process, Koreans are offering a glimpse of what wired societies are supposed to look like, where fast Internet connections vastly increase access to information, help lift productivity and create new markets.
"The killer application of the Internet is speed," said Lee Yong Kyung, the chief executive of the KT Corporation, formerly known as Korea Telecom, which controls nearly half of the country's broadband market. "The money is in the pipes."
But maybe not yet. Intense competition and overbuilding has made prying profits out of building those pipes difficult. And while some content providers have flourished, many others still exist on government subsidies. Broadband has also spawned worrying social trends, some say, raising concerns about children addicted to online games and a growing digital divide between the young and the old.
This is not unexpected, given the extraordinary pace of change. Since 1998, telecommunications companies here have installed nearly 11 million broadband lines, over 5 million of those in the last year alone. High-speed lines now reach significantly more than half of all homes with Internet access.
The numbers are startling, given that South Korea was among the nations hardest hit by the Asian financial crisis just half a decade ago. But rather than retrench, the country turned a disaster into an opportunity. Spending on broadband and other high-technology gear helped lead a transformation of the economy, pushing the overall information technology sector to about 13 percent of economic activity and making South Korea much less dependent on heavy industry.
"In Korea, there was a sense of crisis and they needed to take aggressive action to keep up with globalization," said Izumi Aizu, who runs the Tokyo-based Asia Network Research Inc. "In the U.S., the Internet has turned into a very conventional business."
By racing the fastest down the information highway, Korea has highlighted how far the United States has to go. Though broadband connections are increasingly common in America, service is comparatively expensive and coverage spotty.
Telecommunications companies in the United States, from start-ups to long established businesses, spent hundreds of billions of dollars to build fiber optic networks, but many ran out of cash before they brought those lines the "last mile" to people's doors.
When it comes to high-speed penetration of the home, the United States lags well behind South Korea and Canada, and has slipped below Japan.
America's uneven adoption of broadband has Silicon Valley executives looking at South Korea with envy. While often disdainful of government intervention, many high-technology leaders in the United States now argue that Korean policy makers got it right by actively promoting the technology. The Korean government built a nationwide fiber network to get students and others hooked on high-speed service. To keep prices low, it encouraged rivals to compete with the former state-run monopoly, KT, and it provided loans to software ventures.
By contrast, the effort to bring broadband to the American home is bogged down in the fight between the regional Bell companies and their rivals.
Fee-based online services are now blossoming in Korea. Once a novelty, home shopping now makes up 8.7 percent of all retail sales, a rate that is expected nearly to double by 2005, according to Accenture, the global consulting service.
For the Chos, their experience began, like so many Koreans, when Won Hee, now 20, visited one of Seoul's many PC bangs, or Internet cafes, while in high school. Soon he was studying for his college entrance exams online and shopping for music, videos, furniture and a vacuum for his mother.
Though he attends lectures at his college, he does most of his other school work online, including making presentations with his classmates. "The speed is the biggest difference," he said. "Because all my friends have broadband, we tend to use the Internet even more."
Though Korean parents often fawn over their sons, Mr. Cho's parents grew jealous of Won Hee's connection. Since he was always online at night, his father stayed late at his office, where he had his own broadband line. His mother wanted to study for a real estate broker's license online.
So the Chos leased a Wi-Fi base station from KT so their other computers could gain access to the high-speed connection. Mr. Cho started coming home earlier and Mrs. Cho signed up for her course. Wi-Fi, also known aswireless fidelity, is a technology for providing wireless Internet access.
Including their home phone, three cellphones and cable television, the Chos spend about $200 a month on telecommunications fees, which is not atypical for wired families in Korea and a hefty expense in a country where the median annual household income is under $20,000, roughly half that in the United States. Despite the relatively low cost for high-speed Internet, that overall sum, most experts here agree, is close to the limit of what ordinary families will pay. So companies are now focusing on providing even faster connection speeds and new services without raising prices.
Like many American broadband users, the Chos started out with what is called A.D.S.L., for asymmetric digital subscriber line, which is best at downloading data over broadband telephone networks. But they recently upgraded to a system that is even faster in both directions, making it easier to use interactive games and other two-way services. The lines, capable of speeds of up to 40 megabits per second, are much faster than anything commonly available in the United States, where 1 megabit to 3 megabit transmission rates are typical.
High-speed digital access is creating businesses that were unworkable with ordinary dial-up connections. The Korean company Megastudy, for example, has built the country's biggest online test preparation school for college entrance exams, while KT and rival Hanaro Telecom sell accounting services over the Web to small businesses.
But entertainment, as expected, is the big attraction, especially games and videos. In 2001, SBSi, the interactive division of the Seoul Broadcasting System, started charging 500 South Korean won (about 40 cents) a show to watch soap operas and other streaming video programs. The service has attracted 1.8 million registered users; 4,000 more sign up every day. The drama "All In," the true story of a Korean gambler who beat the odds in Las Vegas, drew 1.6 million viewers during its initial 24-episode run online; now 10,000 Koreans a day pay to see reruns on their computers.
"On the basis of this new infrastructure," said Hwang Eun Ju, a manager in SBSi's strategy division, "we could develop and benefit from new broadband content."
While content providers are taking advantage of Korea's broadband network, the companies that built it are besieged. Growth of new subscribers is leveling off and providers, locked in a price war, are cutting installation fees and giving away modems.
KT has the deepest pockets, but its continuing investment in the new super-fast interactive technology is expected to keep its broadband division in the red for at least another year. The chief of the No. 2 player, Hanaro, resigned in March in response to the company's mounting losses. The third-largest provider, Korea Thrunet, filed for bankruptcy protection from creditors, also in March, after failing to find new investors.
"Turning a profit is not the issue; it's whether they can survive or not," said Song Sauk Hun, an analyst at Gartner Korea.
After encouraging rivals to enter the market, the government is now quietly endorsing consolidation.
The United States has gone through a similar shakeout, except it happened before the broadband network was extensively built. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 set off a surge of expansion that collapsed when the Internet bubble burst, driving many of the broadband start-ups, like Rhythms NetConnections and NorthPoint Communications, out of business. While fixed-line operators in Korea and Japan were cajoled into making D.S.L. service available at low cost, analysts say that the Bells are reluctant to cut prices.
At around $50 a month, broadband costs about twice as much in the United States as in Korea and Japan. Worse, broadband in the United States is slower and less suited for interactive entertainment and other two-way uses because it relies on an asymmetric system that receives data much faster than it can send it. 
The Bells say they are doing everything they can to promote broadband. But critics say the phone companies view broadband as more of a threat than an opportunity, so they have done little to rectify these problems.
The phone companies "are a very powerful industry that spends enormous amount on lobbying," said Charles H. Ferguson, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington who is working on a book on broadband. "They've been able to retard progress and competition."
Even so, after a slow start, the United States is catching up, mostly because the cable industry has picked up the ball. At the end of 2002, about 16.4 million homes had broadband lines, up 52 percent from a year earlier. Cable companies, which provide more than half of all connections, will invest at least $10 billion this year in new infrastructure.
America's suburban expanse certainly adds to the expense of connecting every home, but until broadband costs less, supporters say, consumers will remain wary.
"If the prices for high-speed access were $25 or $27," said Joseph A. Crupi, vice president for broadband communication at Texas Instruments, "it would be a no-brainer."
But while few question the advantages of having the nation hooked to the Internet by high-speed services, many argue about whether the benefits are worth the cost. The Telecommunications Industry Association, which represents Intel, Cisco Systems and Lucent Technologies, among others, wants Washington to take a larger role in shaping a national broadband policy. A bill now before Congress would provide tax breaks of $2 billion over 10 years; it faces an uphill struggle at a time of budget deficits.
Having seen how South Korea has turned itself into an Internet powerhouse, broadband advocates say that the United States risks losing out by not moving faster.
"People must have access to high-speed Internet from home, as well as work," said Paul Saffo, a director of the Institute for the Future, a technology industry forecasting group in Menlo Park, Calif., "or we won't be full players in the global economy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cho Won Hee uses a high-speed connection to surf the Internet from his home in Seoul, South Korea, with his mother, Yoo Hae Sun. Koreans have affordable Internet access that surpasses the quality available in America. (Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images, for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Lee Yong Kyung, the chief executive of KT, formerly known as Korea Telecom, says, "The killer application of the Internet is speed." He adds, "The money is in the pipes." (Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images, for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Full Speed Ahead"South Korea's high level of broadband Internet access has spawned new applications in education, games and even online soap operas. Global broadband penetration rates as a percentage of Internet households South Korea: 57.4%Canada: 49.9Japan: 25.6United States: 22.8Sweden: 18.4Germany: 18.1France: 14.6Italy: 10.8Britain: 10.7 (Source: The Yankee Group)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); BROADBAND (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (78%); TRENDS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: KT CORP (85%)

TICKER: KTCD (LSE) (85%); KT (NYSE) (85%); 030200 (KSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (59%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



131 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Concert CD's Sold on the Spot By a Radio Giant 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW MIRAPAUL

 BODY:
Clear Channel Communications, the radio broadcasting and concert promotion giant, plans to introduce a venture today that will sell live recordings on compact disc within five minutes of a show's conclusion. The venture, Instant Live, will enable a band's still-sweating fans to leave with a musical souvenir instead of say, a pricey T-shirt or a glossy program.
 Although initially modest, involving only small-audience clubs and theaters in the Boston area, the venture could eventually extend beyond radio and concerts into music distribution. And that could prove troubling to critics, who already complain that the company's rigidly formatted radio stations prevent diverse artists from reaching the airwaves and that its dominance of the concert business too often forces touring acts to accept unfavorable deals. 
 Josh Bernoff, a music industry analyst at Forrester Research in Boston, said Clear Channel's entry into the CD business could alter the music industry's tenuous balance of power. At the moment, no single record label dominates the market the way that Clear Channel dominates the radio and concert business. 
"For the labels," Mr. Bernoff said, "that means that their most important goal is to get Clear Channel to broadcast their acts and promote their concerts." The task could become more challenging, he said, if the labels find themselves competing against Clear Channel's own CD's for air time.
But Clear Channel executives say Instant Live is not so much a foray into the CD business as it is a way to wring further revenue from live music events. And they note that it is simply a continuation of the trend among various bands and start-ups in recent years to sell authorized recordings that are available on CD or as Internet downloads soon after the event. This practice can generate additional revenue for musicians and also thwart illicit concert recordings, they said.
"We're not interested in signing artists to exclusive recording contracts," said Steve Simon, an executive vice president in Clear Channel's concert promotion unit in Cambridge, Mass.
The Instant Live venture adds an element of immediate gratification for music consumers, with towers of CD burners turning out multiple copies of the digital recordings.
"They would look at it as another trinket to sell to concertgoers when they're at their venue, whether it's a T-shirt or an instant bootleg or a hot dog," said James M. Marsh, a broadcasting analyst at the investment bank SG Cowen Securities.
And at least one long-time manager of rock bands, Irving Azoff, said he was enthusiastic about the Instant Live concept, especially at a time when concert concession sales are declining. "I, for one, would rather have a live CD of the show that I can take home than a T-shirt," he said. "So I think it's the future of the touring merchandising business."
Mr. Azoff said he was talking to Clear Channel about offering Instant Live discs during a summer tour of the vintage rock bands Journey and REO Speedwagon, provided that the company can demonstrate its ability to churn out enough discs to satisfy an arena-size audience.
Clear Channel has tested the Instant Live service at a half-dozen small-venue concerts since Feb. 27. In the first instance, people attending a performance by the alternative-rock band Machinery Hall at the Paradise Rock Club in Boston could buy a two-CD recording of that night's show for $15. So far, as many as 30 percent of the Instant Live concertgoers have purchased CD's at a given event, Mr. Simon said.
To make the discs, a master recording is made that blends music from the band's mixing board with ambient sounds, including crowd noise, from other microphones. As soon as the show ends, the master copy is taken to a small tower of CD burners, each of which can duplicate up to eight discs at a time. Fans will be able to preorder the discs when they buy tickets for the concert or place orders at any time during or after the performance.
Mr. Simon said Clear Channel would hold as many as five Instant Live concerts a month at small clubs in the Boston area. He said the venture would expand to larger venues and other cities. Clear Channel also has an exclusive distribution agreement with the Best Buy consumer electronics chain to sell Instant Live CD's in eight of its Boston-area stores and, beginning in mid-May, through its BestBuy.com Web site.
So far, the Instant Live performers have been bands like Spookie Daly Pride and Bomb Squad that do not have major record deals. The larger labels would probably frown upon a flood of Instant Live discs competing against their own official releases.
But Mr. Simon said that Instant Live's success did not depend on adding big-name acts from major labels. "It would be disingenuous to suggest that we don't want to expand the universe and do it with signed acts," he said, "but it is a business regardless." He declined to make sales forecasts.
Dan Millen, manager of Spookie Daly Pride, said the Instant Live program could be a bet on the possibility that at least one of the acts would eventually break out. In his own case, if the band lands a record deal and has a hit tune, demand for the Instant Live release would soar, he said. "If we sold 2 million copies of our album and 100,000 of our live bootleg from Clear Channel, then Clear Channel is going to significantly recoup their investment and then some," he said.
Meanwhile, Mr. Millen said, Spookie Daly Pride receives promotional support and radio play that it might not receive without Clear Channel's backing -- even though the band is exactly the kind of indie-rock outfit that would otherwise have difficulty cracking Clear Channel's formats.
Indeed, because Clear Channel's four Boston stations do not play alternative rock music, Mr. Simon is working with two non-Clear Channel stations to promote the Instant Live acts. Mr. Simon declined to discuss how the Instant Live venture might complement Clear Channel's radio programming other than to say, "There's a panoply of alliance and bundling opportunities that this product would offer." Translated, this might mean that stations could someday offer an "Instant Live Hour," or some such program, that would promote the discs.
Mr. Simon said he could also envision making the audio recordings available at the shows as digital downloads to MP3 players or similar devices. And he said that DVD-recording technology is about 10 months away from being able to produce large numbers of concert video recordings on the spot.
Mr. Millen and other band managers said they received one-third to one-half of the $15 disc price, terms they found agreeable. And while all noted that Clear Channel's reputation among musicians is not generally high, none said they felt pressured into accepting a bad deal. "It wasn't 'We want the whole farm and we'll give you this corn row over here,' " Mr. Millen said. "It was, 'We'll give you a lot of the farm, and if you need anything else, let us know.' "
Although the instant CD idea may work for unsigned acts, it could pose many problems for musicians signed to major labels. Standard contracts, for instance, can stipulate that artists must produce a specific number of albums, so care would need to be taken to ensure that a week's worth of live CD's did not fulfill the band's contract obligation. And negotiating song licenses, particularly when versions of another band's tunes are involved, can also be thorny.
But the biggest obstacle to major-label acceptance could be the fear that the instant CD's would cannibalize the sales of an official release.
That is why DiscLive, a company that has also started to test the instant disc market at small clubs in New York, is taking a slightly different approach by limiting its releases to on-site sales, with no subsequent distribution planned. "What we're selling is a collector's item, a memorabilia piece," said Rich Isaacson, DiscLive's chief executive.
It is too early to know how big the market for instant concert CD's might become. Although the experience is not a direct comparison, John Paluska, manager of the jam band Phish, said that the group had already sold close to $1 million in concert-show downloads over the Internet since opening the livephish.com site in late December. The recordings are typically made available within 48 hours of a performance. So far, Phish fans have downloaded nearly 100,000 concert copies, compared with sales of 180,000 copies of the band's most recent album, "Round Room."
"In our eyes, it's been a big success," Mr. Paluska said.
But he said it would not be easy for Clear Channel to move into the instant-CD sphere. With all the legal issues involved, he said, "They're going to be surprised at how complicated it is."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Simon, executive vice president in Clear Channel's concert promotion unit, with CD's to sell at shows. (Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); EVENT MARKETING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); THEATER (77%); CD & DVD DRIVES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (58%) MUSIC, OPERA AND MUSICAL RECORDINGS; RADIO 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (CCU) 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%) SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



132 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. Hopes to Bridge Divide With Europe in Trade Talks
Europe and the United States clashed bitterly over the war Iraq, but a senior American official is urging the two sides to use trade negotiations as a way to mend fences.
 Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, told German business executives, "Here's an opportunity we can seize together, because it is in our mutual interest and the common interest." Page C2. 

'Virtual' Colonoscopy Wins Patent
Arie E. Kaufman, left, a professor and chairman of computer sciences at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, and a research team have won a patent for a new way to scan for colon polyps. The procedure is called a virtual colonoscopy, what Dr. Kaufman said, is "a nice combination of CT scanning technology and computer graphics, or computer technology." Patents. C2.

Spammers Say 'Catch Me If You Can'
Spam is growing rapidly this year, with little certainty over who is doing the mass e-mailing. The key to fighting spam, participants at a three-day conference agreed, is finding the person or business hitting send. C8.

Vineyard Editorial Crusader Retires
A temporary assignment in 1975 to run The Vineyard Gazette turned into a 28-year career for Richard Reston, who is retiring after positioning his paper as a fierce opponent of many commercial development projects on Martha's Vineyard. C7.

It's Summer, at Least at the Movies
The summer movie season, which now begins when the frost has barely left the lawn, was off to an auspicious start this weekend with the opening of "X2: X-Men United," which sold an estimated $85.8 million worth of tickets in North American theaters. E3.

Ever since Warner Brothers and Universal Pictures struck gold in 1996 with their joint early-May release of "Twister," Hollywood has released blockbuster hopefuls ahead of the Memorial Day clutter. Drilling Down. C10.

You Want Fries With That Salad?
The success Wendy's International has had in marketing its Garden Sensations line of salads has caused a reaction from McDonald's and other fast-food chains. Advertising. C10.

Signs of a Revival for Online Ads
Online analysts and interactive agencies say that a spate of positive earnings announcements, coupled with at least one industry survey, suggest that the long and ugly descent of online advertising that began in 2000 has ended. But will the newer in-your-face multimedia ads end up alienating online consumers?
Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C6.

Networks Pin Hopes on New Shows
All four television networks (as well as the two smaller ones, WB and UPN) are looking to the new crop of shows for the coming season to solve problem areas on their schedules. For NBC, the need to find another hit comedy is particularly acute, as its most successful show, "Friends," will be produced for the last time this coming season. Tracy Morgan, left, of "Saturday Night Live," stars in a comedy that has impressed NBC executives. C7.

Children at the Technology Helm
Much is made of the technological prowess of the younger generation. But a little-noticed side effect is the ineptitude that afflicts parents who cede the role of the household's chief technology officer to their offspring.
New Economy. C4.

Madonna's CD Makes Debut at No.1
Madonna's latest album, "American Life," made its debut at No. 1 in the United States and 13 other countries in its first week, but it had a little help: the CD was priced at $9.99. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 8,582.68 up 276.33Nasdaq composite -- 1,502.88 up 68.3410-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.93% up 0.04The euro -- $1.1231 up 0.0200The dollar -- 118.93 yen down 1.42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMAIL MARKETING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PATENTS (90%); ENDOSCOPY (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); FILM (86%); NETWORK TELEVISION (86%); FAST FOOD (85%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (84%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (75%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (75%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COLON DISEASE (70%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (66%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (91%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (53%)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (91%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (90%); IRAQ (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



133 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: 'Trickle Down' Myth 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 While reading about the decision by House Republican leaders to pursue a plan to reduce the taxes on both dividends and capital gains (news article, May 2), I was reminded of how self-serving these members of Congress can be and how insular their views are about what legislation can really improve the lives of most Americans. 
 Can giving additional breaks to corporate America and affluent citizens really be more pressing than addressing the growing unemployment rate or lack of affordable housing? Haven't we learned by now that "trickle down" is only a theory and not a reality?

JENNIFER WEISS
Brooklyn, May 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (52%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX 

PERSON: WEISS, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



134 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; EditorialDesk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: The Faces Of Budget Cuts 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
Cheryl Asbell was fidgety, anxious. She compulsively adjusted the soft-brimmed bucket hat that she wore during the interview in her living room. Now she stared at me, her eyes wide.
 "I'll tell you what's going to happen," she said. "I'm going to be dead. That's what's going to happen." 
 Ms. Asbell, tall, thin and middle-aged, described herself as deeply depressed and paranoid. Her periodic descents into psychosis, she said, are becoming more and more difficult to handle.
She tried to commit suicide in January and ended up in a hospital for 10 days. "I stopped breathing, but they brought me back," she said. "I feel a little better now."
During one psychotic episode she removed the metal plates from all of the switches and outlets in the apartment. "I thought there were cameras in there," she said.
She pointed to a tiny hole in the living room ceiling. "I thought there was a camera in there, too. I thought there were people outside the house watching me. I called the police and they came by and said everything was all right."
Doctors have prescribed a long list of medications to ward off the worst manifestations of Ms. Asbell's illness. But she can't afford them. She has been dumped from a state program that paid for the medication and for sessions of much-needed psychotherapy. Now she gets some medication in the form of samples from doctor's offices. The rest she does without.
Ms. Asbell is one of thousands of Oregon residents who are seriously in need of medical care but are being cut from essential (and even life-saving) programs because of the state's budget meltdown.
Last month The Oregonian reported on the case of Douglas Schmidt, a 36-year-old epileptic who lost his prescription drug benefit because of budget cuts. The benefit paid for his anti-seizure medication. Eight to 10 days after his supply of pills ran out, Mr. Schmidt suffered a massive epileptic seizure. He has been in a coma ever since and is not expected to recover.
Last week I interviewed Rose Spears, who is 50, has had thyroid cancer and is disabled from diabetes. She lives alone in a one-bedroom apartment. The table beside her bed is covered with medicine vials.
"I lost my prescription drug coverage," she said, "so I have to pay out of pocket for my 11-odd medications, plus two insulins. I can't afford it. The total bill is $912 per month and my income is $728. Right now I'm surviving off samples my doctor can give me."
Oregon is one of many states caught in a fiscal quagmire. There are many reasons for the budgetary distress, which has spread from coast to coast. They include a lousy national economy, a widespread unwillingness locally and nationally to levy the taxes necessary to support government services, and the refusal of the Bush administration to help state and local governments that are experiencing their worst budget shortfalls since World War II.
In Oregon the situation is getting worse, not better. School financing has been cut so drastically that some districts have had to curtail the school year. And health care cuts that have already hurt thousands of poor and working-poor residents are expected to go much deeper, beginning July 1.
Not too long ago the Oregon health care system was a model that was admired and studied by professionals around the country. Now, because of a lack of funds, it is falling apart.
"It's horrible to see what's happening with some of the very successful things that we did," said Jean Thorne, the state's director of human services.
The drastic cuts in governmental services that are being made in Oregon and other states are eroding the nation's basic defenses against ignorance, disease and destitution.
Both Rose Spears and Cheryl Asbell are petrified that at some point they won't be able to get doctors' samples and their medication will be cut off entirely.
"I haven't had my blood sugar below 250 since the beginning of the year," said Ms. Spears. "It's the stress. I have to take my medication if I want to stick around. But what if I can't get it? I pray constantly."
"I've lost 45 pounds since my coverage was cut," said Ms. Asbell. "I don't sleep at all, I'm so worried."
She said she is convinced that without her medication she will sink ever more deeply into a depression from which she will not emerge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); EPILEPSY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PSYCHIATRY (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); SUICIDE (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (66%); CANCER (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); DIABETES (60%); THYROID CANCER (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (75%) OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



135 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Gambling on Peace: India's Leader Tries Again 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, May 4 

 BODY:
Just over two weeks ago, the consensus here was that if anything changed in the icy relations between India and Pakistan in the next few months, it was going to be for the worse. American officials were on their way to the region, hoping to avert a potential conflict between two neighbors with nuclear arsenals.
 In a flash, the prime minister of India, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, has overturned any such assumptions. In a series of statements that culminated on Friday with his unexpected announcement of the restoration of air and diplomatic links with Pakistan, he has indicated he is willing to give peace one more chance. 
 Pakistan has responded warmly to Mr. Vajpayee's olive branch, and has said it would offer specific proposals in return within the next few days.
The prime minister of Pakistan, Zafarullah Khan Jamali, called today for a meeting of all factions of Parliament on Monday to discuss what steps to take next.
On Saturday, Mr. Jamali formally invited Mr. Vajpayee to visit Pakistan, but Mr. Vajpayee politely declined for the time being.
During Mr. Vajpayee's tenure as prime minister, there have been two other attempts to achieve some sort of reconciliation with Pakistan. He indicated that this one will be "decisive," for him at least.
The two nations -- India is majority Hindu and Pakistan is majority Muslim -- were carved from Britain's Indian empire in 1947 and have had troubled relations ever since. Kashmir, the predominantly Muslim border territory that is divided between them, has been at the heart of the trouble.
Both countries claim Kashmir in its entirety, and India accuses Pakistan of backing a 14-year Islamic insurgency in Indian-governed Kashmir. The two countries nearly went to war last year after several high-profile attacks against India.
Since then, India's position has been that it would not talk to Pakistan until the end of what it calls "cross-border terrorism," or the infiltration of militants from Pakistani territory into India.
While Mr. Vajpayee has not officially abandoned that position, his decision to take other steps to normalize relations has created the first opening for an improvement since India severed all links between the countries in December 2001.
American officials have been pushing for well over a year for India to resume dialogue with Pakistan, but they were caught off guard by Mr. Vajpayee's overtures. Rather than trying to placate the American deputy secretary of state, Richard Armitage, who will visit the region next week, Mr. Vajpayee has managed to pre-empt him.
Mr. Armitage will now be in the position of trying to coax the peace process along primarily by looking for concrete commitments from Pakistan and its president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, notably on ending support for Islamic militancy.
If nothing else, Mr. Vajpayee has put Pakistan on the defensive.
"It's brilliant tactically," said George Perkovich, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. "If you're Musharraf now and something goes boom in Kashmir, you just gave a way for the Indians to pound you internationally."
Still, for Mr. Vajpayee, it is a risky undertaking. His Bharatiya Janata Party faces four important state elections this year and a general election next year. Some argue that the party would be better served by a hard line on Pakistan; even those who do not are worried that a meeting that ends as badly as the previous one, at Agra in 2001, could damage the party's fortunes.
Mr. Vajpayee's willingness to gamble largely reflectshis personal commitment to peace. But it also reflects the fact that India's former approach simply was not working.
As terrorism continued in Kashmir, India was finding itself increasingly boxed in. After sending hundreds of thousands of troops to the border with Pakistan last year, then redeploying them without taking any action, it almost could not afford not to react militarily if another attack took place. But any military action offered little in terms of a real solution to the dispute between the two countries and posed enormous risks.
Even as Indian officials accused the Bush administration of having a double standard on terrorism -- looking the other way while Pakistan backed terrorism in Kashmir as long as it helped in the hunt for Al Qaeda -- American pressure on Pakistan was seen as the only hope of changing its behavior.
American officials did put several Kashmiri militant groups on the watch list of terrorist organizations last week. But in general, American officials have opted to give greater economic support to Pakistan, arguing that India's interests are best served by having a strong, stable neighbor.
Whether India has now given up on American support, or given in to its view on the best way to improve relations, is a matter of interpretation.
Mr. Vajpayee has already made clear that his approach this time will be substantially different from his two previous attempts at peace, which were initiated with high-profile summit meetings.
He reiterated New Delhi's stand that Pakistan must end cross-border terrorism to create the right atmosphere for a sustained dialogue. But he was also sending a message that the Indians plan to prepare the ground before any high-level talks and that, when and if they come, they should be far more carefully choreographed than in the past.
Pakistan continues to want high-level talks with Kashmir's fate at the core, and this is where the negotiations can be expected to get sticky. For instance, today, after Pakistan's foreign minister was quoted as saying his country would now be willing to discuss trade and economic relations with India before Kashmir, his office issued a statement saying he had been misquoted.
Pakistan has its own political pressures. The six-party opposition Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal alliance has indicated it wants Kashmir at the top of the agenda for any talks. And the army, which has used the struggle over Kashmir as a rationale for its power, remains a wild card.
"It's not the public," Mr. Perkovitch, of the Carnegie Endowment, said of the obstacles to peace. "It's the army. Can the Pakistani Army get in its head that after Vajpayee, who knows?"
At a summit meeting in Lahore in 1999, Mr. Vajpayee said he was happy that he had returned there after 21 years, but sad "that we had spent such a long time in mutual conflict and bitterness."
If nothing else, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who has emerged as both a realist and a romantic, will go down in history as having tried to change that.

GRAPHIC: Map of India and Pakistan highlighting Jammu and Kashmir: The countries face sticky negotiations over the Kashmir region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); RELIGION (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); TERRORISM (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KASHMIR (94%) INDIA (99%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



136 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Want a $38-an-Hour Job? Get in Line 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON 

 BODY:
Yesterday on the Upper East Side, the usual sidewalk queues formed for Sunday brunch, museum exhibits and Rollerblade rentals.
 But one line, beginning at Third Avenue and 76th Street and encircling most of a city block, was made up of burly men with bleary eyes lolling about in portable lounge chairs. 
 The line began to form Friday morning under a sign for Local 46, the Metallic Lathers Union of New York and Vicinity. Since then, people from all over the Northeast began flocking here to the local's headquarters for a chance to apply for union membership, an opportunity that comes every two years. 
The union is handing out applications to the first 200 people in line this morning. Most have slept on the sidewalk since Friday -- some directly on the pavement, others in tents with air mattresses.
"We're not just waiting for work; we're waiting for our career," said Peter Bueno, 31, of Hempstead, N.Y., who arrived here on Friday afternoon, got a plastic bracelet with No. 93 and pitched a pop-up tent at Third Avenue and 75th Street directly over a grating for a hot air vent.
Robert A. Ledwith, business manager for the local, concurred with Mr. Bueno's assessment: most of the men here who became union members would never give the job up until they retired.
The local handles workers who lay the steel bars that reinforce the concrete in buildings, and it is one ofthe best-paying union jobs around.
"Our guys make $38 an hour, $62 if you figure in the benefits," he said, adding that some members can retire at age 55 with a comfortable pension.
It is hard work, often done high upon buildings under construction.
Even though the economy has slowed construction in the New York area, officials in this 1,200-member union are optimistic that enough work will remain to provide jobs for 200 more members.
Mr. Bueno said that Friday night was so cold that he bought himself a tent at a nearby store. He and his fiancee, who agreed to wait the entire time with him, set up housekeeping.
"They see us waiting here the whole time, and they see that we really want the job," said Mr. Bueno, currently doing freelance construction work for a small contractor.
Again, Mr. Ledwith concurred, explaining that the union's policy of awarding applications to these intrepid sidewalk campers was something of an informal weeding-out process, since it takes a dedicated and hearty person to camp out on a New York City street for three days and nights.
The line stretched along Third Avenue, in front of several upscale clothing boutiques. Hunkered down for three days, many of the men passed the time by chatting or by playing poker, dominoes or board games. Other men watched the Mets game on battery-powered televisions and sampled the local delis and pizza parlors. Still others engaged in that favorite of male construction worker pastimes, girl-watching.
Several pairs of men played intense games of chess and a group of men farther back in line, on East 75th Street, played Monopoly. One of them, Kenrry Marte, 21, from the Bronx, was winning. He owned Boardwalk and had built the only house of the game so far, on North Carolina Avenue.
Mr. Ledwith said that each applicant takes a general comprehension exam, a drug test and sits for an interview. Then the applicants who make the grade are told to report to the hiring hall, where they will soon begin working as paid apprentices.
As he spoke, a woman in a blue bonnet approached and asked him if these were homeless men waiting on a food line, "because they look like they've been here so long."
"These men are waiting to join our union," Mr. Ledwith said. "These are the men who are going to be putting up the buildings in this city."
Michael Natale, 20, of Brooklyn, arrived Friday morning and got No. 11. Yesterday afternoon, he lay back in his beach chair under a mural near the headquarters entrance of ironworkers laying the steel for the great buildings of New York City.
"I've gotten no sleep, and I've read every newspaper front to back," said Mr. Natale, who recently quit his job as a union electrician for a chance at a job with Local 46.
"You can make twice as much on this job," he said. "I even heard guys saying they got laid off Friday and came straight here to wait."
Union officials handed out blue plastic wristbands bearing numbers, to indicate places in line. To prevent cheating, officials took attendance on the line every few hours and taped it with a videocamera. By yesterday, several people with bracelets had already quit the line, so union officials announced that they would offer applications to bracelet-holders through No. 213.
This brought a smile to Bismillah Duran, 22, a supermarket cashier from Brooklyn who arrived on Saturday and got No. 205. He slept Saturday night on his inflatable mattress on the sidewalk.
The rear of the line ran next to the sidewalk cafe of Orsay on Lexington Avenue, where well-dressed diners eating goat cheese salads and salmon souffles tried to ignore the would-be construction workers cheering on the Mets.
Several dozen people showing up yesterday were told they had little chance, including George VanAndern, 43, a construction worker from Greenhaven, N.Y.
"There goes my shot at seven-hour days and full benefits," he groaned. "I figured if I came a day beforehand, I'd be early. But coming Friday morning, that's just crazy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Third Avenue and 76th Street, a line of people waited over the weekend to apply for one of about 200 high-paying union jobs laying steel bars that reinforce concrete. The line snaked around most of the block. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); RETAILERS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); BOARD GAMES (60%); POKER (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LABOR; CONCRETE; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS 

ORGANIZATION: METALIC LATHERS UNION OF NEW YORK AND VICINITY 

PERSON: KILGANNON, COREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



137 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: Hartford Bids a Bilingual Goodbye to a White-Collar Past 

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 2 

 BODY:
To the outside world, Hartford still conjures images of bankers and brokers, hairdressers and haberdashers, a white-collar legacy of a calmly efficient insurance empire. Indeed, that was Hartford. In 1950.
 Nowadays, this is far more a struggling city with a diverse population that frequents soul food restaurants and supermercados, poultry markets and panaderias. And, more than ever, Hartford is becoming a city that looks and sounds less like Katharine Hepburn and Gregory Peck and more like Carlos Lopez and Freddy Ortiz. 
 Mr. Lopez, 58, a native of Cuba and one of Hartford's most successful businessmen, sells furniture in the Little Puerto Rico section of Park Street, where English is the second language. A few blocks away, on Broad Street, Mr. Ortiz, 61, who arrived here 18 years ago to work for someone else, runs his own bakery, selling Caribbean breads and Latin desserts that attract Hispanics from Boston and Manhattan. 
Like roughly half of the other 250 or so Hispanic business owners in Hartford, Mr. Ortiz, who moved here from Ponce, P.R., speaks only Spanish, but that is all right with him.
Founded by a Dutchman and settled by Puritans, Hartford now has the greatest percentage of Hispanic residents of any major city north of Florida and east of the Mississippi. 
"We've become a Latin city, so to speak," Eddie A. Perez, who last year became the first Hispanic mayor in Hartford's 367-year history, said in a recent interview. "It's a sign of things to come."
Hispanics now account for more than 40 percent of the city's population -- the largest concentration among major cities outside California, Texas, Colorado and Florida, 2000 Census Bureau figures show. More than half of Hartford's schoolchildren are Hispanic, and city and state officials expect Hartford's demographic trend to continue.
The Latinization of Hartford, while not universally embraced, took a high-profile turn with the election of Mayor Perez, a New York City native of Puerto Rican heritage who moved to Hartford as a boy in 1969. Since he was elected, City Hall has clearly changed: Mr. Perez's confidential secretary and executive assistant, as well as the city's corporation counsel and two City Council members, are all native Spanish speakers.
Other signs of the times: the city's Web page is bilingual, and after-hours callers to the mayor's office are greeted first by a message in Spanish: "Este mensaje seria repetido en espanol" (This message will be repeated in Spanish.).
"In the bank, they speak Spanish; at the hospital, they speak Spanish; my bakery suppliers are starting to speak some Spanish," Mr. Ortiz said -- in Spanish -- during a break from his bread-making. "Even at the post office, they are Americans, but they speak Spanish."
The Latino boom, of course, is not unique to Hartford. Hispanics are now the largest minority group in the United States, and demographics experts say that by 2050, one-quarter of the nation's population will have Latin roots. 
Black support is also considered essential at City Hall -- 38 percent of Hartford's residents are African-American. But if population trends continue as predicted, Hartford will be the first state capital with a Hispanic majority.
"Those numbers translate into economic and political power," said Julio Morales, a professor at the University of Connecticut's Graduate School of Social Work. "The pace is moving at a faster rate than in the past."
The rapid growth has been accompanied by problems like poverty and school overcrowding.
Hartford's Hispanic roots developed in the 1940's, as Puerto Rican laborers mostly from the island's smaller towns and rural villages were hired to harvest Connecticut's tobacco. Since the 1960's, as more Puerto Ricans settled in between blacks on the North End and Hartford's dwindling white population on the South End, they have been joined by Cuban, Portuguese, Dominican, Colombian, Peruvian, Brazilian and Mexican immigrants.
Tobacco jobs are no longer a lodestone for Puerto Ricans, but the Latin migration to Hartford and other parts of Connecticut -- less crowded, more affordable and not as ultracompetitive as New York City and its increasingly dense suburbs -- has steadily grown since the late 1980's.
"Compared to New York, Hartford is country, man," said Hector M. Torres, president of the Hispanic Yellow Pages, whose 145,000 subscribers in Connecticut and western Massachusetts -- half of them in Hartford and New Haven Counties -- represent a fivefold increase from the directory's first edition in 1989. 
Many of his newer customers, Mr. Torres said, are entrepreneurs who left New York City and Boston for Hartford's less competitive market and slower pace. "'It's a great advantage," he said, "and it does bring a lot of Hispanic families."
Central and South American restaurants and shops are now almost as easy to find as the Puerto Rican and Portuguese businesses that preceded them. Last year, the Peruvian consulate in Boston opened an office in downtown Hartford. And in June, the Spanish-American Merchants Association plans to begin a $6.5 million overhaul of Park Street's roads, sidewalks, street lights and bus shelters. 
The 18-month project was intended to make Little Puerto Rico into the New England hub of Hispanic commerce, said Julio Mendoza, the association's executive director. 
"We want to empower ourselves," Mr. Mendoza said, "and we want to be known as a regional area."
But the influx of mostly Puerto Rican Hispanics from New York and elsewhere has stretched Hartford's ability to absorb all the newcomers. Jose Cruz, an associate professor of political science at the State University of New York at Albany, who published a book about the city's Puerto Rican population, said many families relocated here without a job and with few ways to make money quickly.
"In many ways, socioeconomically, they are jumping from the frying pan into the fire," Professor Cruz said in an interview. In his 1998 book, he noted that poverty rates in some Puerto Rican neighborhoods approached 45 percent. 
Hartford's schools are also struggling to correct another acute problem: the dearth of students in the city's mostly black North End schools and the overcrowded classrooms on the heavily Hispanic South End. 
City officials say these are temporary growing pains. While Schools Superintendent Robert Henry, a native of Costa Rica, plans to balance classroom sizes by redrawing school district boundaries, Mr. Perez, the mayor, is planning to create jobs by bringing in Hispanic-led corporations to complement, or compete with, the city's financial services and fading manufacturing sectors. 
Twice in the past year, Mr. Perez has traveled to Puerto Rico to persuade bank and retail executives to begin operations here.
Last month, executives from Doral Bank, owned by a Puerto Rican conglomerate, spent three days in Hartford to discuss opening a branch here that would specialize in home loans, city officials said. Mr. Perez has made raising Hartford's dismal 24.5 percent home-ownership rate a priority, and his aides said they expected Doral's chief executive to visit sometime in the next several weeks. 
A few weeks before the Doral meeting, Mr. Perez also sat down with Manuel Cidre, president of the Puerto Rican Manufacturers' Association, whose members represent a vast source of potential business opportunities for Hartford, a city desperate for jobs and skilled workers.
But formidable barriers -- economic, political and cultural -- still must be overcome before Latinos, a young and politically inexperienced group in a city gripped by severe economic problems, can control Hartford as the close-knit group of insurance executives did so famously in the city's affluent postwar heyday.
Though they are a force in the city, Hispanics make up only 10 percent of the 1.1 million residents of the greater metropolitan area, where the mostly white suburbs tend to view Hartford as an impoverished aberration in one of the nation's wealthiest regions. And in a city with such deep Anglo heritage, many Hispanic officials and executives acknowledge that they are still often recognized more for street festivals and salsa music than for economic and political clout. 
"The barriers have not come down," said Edna N. Negron, director of the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration's office in Hartford. "There is a trust level for white folks that we don't have."
Though the trend is in decline, many Hispanic merchants here talk about how local banks were reluctant to grant loans and help start their businesses. Freddy Ortiz, the Puerto Rican baker, said that five years ago, he could not even persuade the electric company to switch on the power in the run-down building he planned to turn into his bakery. 
"They said I had no credit," he said. Mr. Ortiz, who paid $39,000 in commercial taxes last year, eventually received a loan from the Spanish-American Merchants Association that allowed him to set up shop.
And many local Hispanic politicians feel that their priorities are not always those of the state's power brokers.
Ms. Negron and other Hispanic leaders have criticized a $771 million downtown revitalization plan here, which includes building a hotel, convention center, new apartment and shopping districts and a tourist-luring science center. They contend that it ignores the city's major Hispanic commercial district, one mile from downtown.
"I think people are understanding that Latinos are here to stay," said Julio Mendoza, the Spanish-American Merchants Association president. "And that instead of fighting it they should be joining it."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 5 about the growing Latino influence in Hartford misidentified Mayor Eddie A. Perez's place of birth. It is Corozal, P.R., not New York City.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At his bakery on Broad Street in Hartford, Freddy Ortiz, left, sells Caribbean breads and Latin desserts that are known to attract customers from Boston and Manhattan. Maria Louisa Simao helps him at work. (George Ruhe for The New York Times); Jason Harris, 2, plays in the Little Puerto Rico neighborhood of Hartford, where English is the second language for many residents. (Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. B5) Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: A Changing Hartford"A look at how the racial and ethnic breakdown of Hartford has changed since 1980. Hispanics, who can be of any race, are shown separately. 1980WHITE: 50.3%BLACK: 33.9ALL HISPANIC: 20.5PUERTO RICAN: 18.1OTHER: 15.8 1990WHITE: 40.0BLACK: 38.9ALL HISPANIC: 31.6PUERTO RICAN: 27.3OTHER: 21.1 2000WHITE: 27.7BLACK: 38.1ALL HISPANIC: 40.5PUERTO RICAN: 32.6OTHER: 28.8Two or more races: 5.4% (Source: Queens College Dept. of Sociology)(pg. B5) Map of Connecticut highlighting Hartford. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTILINGUALISM (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BAKERIES (73%); BAKED GOODS (73%); CENSUS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); POULTRY (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TRENDS (62%); CHILDREN (50%) PUERTO RICANS; MINORITIES (US); HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MAYORS 

PERSON: VON ZIELBAUER, PAUL; PEREZ, EDDIE (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%) HARTFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



138 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: REBUILDING; 
Top Employer Gone, Iraqis Scuffle for Jobs

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 4 

 BODY:
His job gone and his savings depleted, Saman Murad clung desperately to the 13-year-old letter that constituted his one thin hope for income-producing work.
 It was a severance notice from the American Embassy, written just a few weeks after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, informing Mr. Murad "with great sadness" that his job as a receptionist had been suspended as a result of the "deteriorating political conditions" between Iraq and the United States. 
 Today, three weeks after Saddam Hussein's government crumbled, Mr. Murad is among the thousands of Iraqis here begging for work from the newly arrived American administrators. 
But like most of other applicants, Mr. Murad has awakened to the bitter realization that the Americans are hiring very few of those now unemployed.
On Saturday, hundreds of angry Iraqis swarmed into the lobby of the Palestine Hotel, which is home to most foreign journalists here, and protested for hours about their inability to get work from the American administrators, who now have their headquarters inside the marble halls of the Republican Palace.
"Don't try to persuade us that the U.S.A., after 40 days, cannot constitute a government that controls everything," said Younis Abbas Khamis, a 55-year-old government worker. "If this chaos lasts forever, there will be a revolution."
Many Iraqis have fallen victim to hucksters who sold them job applications, but who had no connection to the American administrators.
Even without the sting of local con artists, job prospects here are horrendous, and tempers are rising. By some estimates, as much as 75 percent of the Iraqi work force made a living from either the government or the military -- both of which have now collapsed.
Largely because of the trade sanctions imposed by the United Nations after the Persian Gulf war in 1991, manufacturing had all but halted by the time the United States and Britain attacked in March. Many urban Iraqis moved to the country and turned to subsistence farming for survival.
Meanwhile, prices for many basic staples are rising rapidly as shortages and growing demand collide with the incoming flood of dollars from big-spending foreign government officials, international organizations and journalists from around the world.
For the lucky few -- those who find work with foreigners as translators or drivers or technical specialists -- income has soared from about $40 a month to as much as $100 a day. But for an unlucky majority, the immediate postwar period means lost jobs and higher prices.
Adding to the unhappiness, most of Baghdad's five million residents remain without electricity and telephone service. Food is available, but refrigerators cannot keep it fresh. Buying gasoline, in a country with the world's second-largest oil reserves, requires waiting in lines that look like parking lots.
Not surprisingly, many Iraqis are focusing their frustrations on the country's new American bosses.
"We want to form a government that can restore civil employees to their jobs," said Sheik Jassim Muhammad Hassan, a deputy chieftain of tribal leaders in Baghdad. "We are having difficulty curbing our tribes from going into rebellion."
Outside the former Republican Palace, soldiers turned away hundreds of Iraqis begging to put in job applications.
Inside the palace, Iraqi tribal leaders waited patiently for the chance to meet with American military and civilian administrators and communicate the rising dissatisfaction.
"They suffer from hunger and they want jobs," said Hannash al-Musawi, head of the Musawi tribe, whose members are scattered through central and southern Iraq. "We have told them to have patience, to wait for the Americans for jobs. But people are very unhappy. You hear the same thing everywhere."
Some jobs are expected to come from American companies, like Bechtel, that have won reconstruction contracts from the United States government. Bechtel and other contractors have said they plan to hire many Iraqi companies as subcontractors.
But Bush administration officials are already worrying about how to handle the thousands of Iraqi government workers who will no longer be needed. The bankrupt Iraqi government has almost no cash to keep paying salaries, and the United States has not specifically budgeted money to make up the difference.
Jay Garner, the retired lieutenant general who heads the American administration here, has promised $20 to each civil servant as an emergency allocation, but details have not been worked out.
Foreign investors and Iraqi-born industrialists, who shifted most of their businesses to other countries over the past decade, say the country is still too chaotic and unstable to risk their own money.
Mr. Murad is still hoping for work with Americans. But his English is rudimentary, and his application for work is merely one of thousands on file at the Republican Palace.
Now 40, with a wife and three children, Mr. Murad struggled for years after losing his job at the American Embassy. Branded as a sympathizer to the United States, he was unemployed for four years after the war in Kuwait. Then he worked for the Sheraton as a plumber, but lost that job when the hotel cut staff. Finally he enlisted in the Iraqi Army, which he deserted just before American troops poured into Baghdad.
"I don't have any more money," Mr. Murad said as he stood among the protesters at the Palestine Hotel on Saturday. "What can I do to get an appointment for a job?"

CORRECTION-DATE: May 12, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Monday about tensions caused by widespread Iraqi unemployment misstated the ranking of the country's oil reserves. They are believed to be the world's third-largest, not second-largest.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Irate Iraqi job-seekers tried to push past American soldiers on Saturday in front of the Palestine Hotel, headquarters of many foreign journalists. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (85%); LAYOFFS (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); WRITERS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); JOURNALISM (68%); POWER FAILURES (63%); LOBBYING (56%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



139 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER; 
U.S. Is Eager To Step In As Host Of World Cup

BYLINE:  By JERE LONGMAN 

 BODY:
The United States will most likely become the substitute host of the Women's World Cup if acceptable financial arrangements can be made between soccer's world governing body and American organizers, soccer officials said yesterday.
 The World Cup, the largest international sporting event for women, was scheduled to be played from Sept. 23 to Oct. 11 in China, but it was withdrawn by FIFA on Saturday because of the SARS epidemic. 
 "The logical choice is here," Dr. S. Robert Contiguglia, president of U.S. Soccer, said yesterday in a telephone interview. "The question is, can we work it out?" 
Chuck Blazer, an American representative to FIFA, soccer's world governing body, cited organizational difficulties in Australia, the other serious candidate, telling The Associated Press, "My guess would be that they'll wind up here."
American soccer officials will travel today to FIFA headquarters in Zurich to make a proposal. A decision could be reached this week or next. Time is urgent because planners would have less than five months to prepare for the 16-team tournament.
A number of football and soccer stadiums are being discussed as possible World Cup sites. They include the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif., which was filled with 90,000 fans for the 1999 final between the United States and China, and which is available on Oct. 11. Also mentioned as potential sites are Robert F. Kennedy Stadium in Washington; CMGI Field in Foxboro, Mass.; the newly built Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia; and Spartan Stadium in San Jose, Calif.
Soccer stadiums in Columbus, Ohio, and Carson, Calif., as well as a new football stadium built to soccer dimensions for the University of Connecticut in Storrs, are also possibilities.
American organizers made the 1999 Women's World Cup a spectacular success, but that was with two and a half years to prepare. The dramatic final, won by the United States on Brandi Chastain's shirt-shedding penalty kick, drew 40 million American television viewers, still the largest national TV audience for a soccer match. The tournament earned a profit of between $2 million and $3 million on a budget of $38 million and demonstrated emphatically that people would pay in large numbers to watch a women's sporting event.
"No one on the planet can duplicate what happened in '99," Contiguglia said.
That tournament ended in July, with little competition from other sports, while this World Cup would compete with the baseball playoffs, and college and pro football, as well as with youth soccer leagues. Still, organizers would ambitiously hope for sellouts, Contiguglia said, relying on a highly organized network of volunteers and youth programs.
Previously, American soccer officials were ambivalent about playing host to this year's World Cup, planning instead to make a pitch for the 2007 tournament. Once that was awarded to China as consolation, the national federation became much more receptive. The potential upside is significant. The World Cup could bring much needed attention to the Women's United Soccer Association, the fledgling eight-team American professional league, and American officials could be seen as rescuers of one of the world's most important soccer tournaments.
Also, if 90,000 fans are again attracted to a final at the Rose Bowl after such short preparation, it would serve as a remarkable example of the broad reach of soccer in this country. The pitch to this year's World Cup would be the quality of play and the last chance to see icons like Mia Hamm in the sport's grandest event, Contiguglia said.
Still, many financial details need to be settled with FIFA, which in the past has paid for team travel and hotel stays. Will that guarantee continue? Will other enticements be made to American organizers? What kind of local marketing opportunities will FIFA allow? Would the tournament be staged entirely in one part of the country to trim costs?
"If we can do it, we will do everything we can to make it work," Contiguglia said. "It can be a great event. But it's a huge economic risk. I can't put U.S. Soccer at risk unless we can find some way to make it reasonable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. S. Robert Contiguglia of U.S. Soccer. (Michelle V. Agins)(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (95%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); SARS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); BASEBALL (72%); EPIDEMICS (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (60%) SOCCER; WORLD CUP; SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



140 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Who Wants to Be a Martyr? 

BYLINE:  By Scott Atran; Scott Atran, a research scientist at the National Center for Scientific Research in Paris and at the University of Michigan, is author of "In Gods We Trust: The Evolutionary Landscape of Religion."

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

 BODY:
One given in the war against terrorism seems to be that suicide attackers are evil, deluded or homicidal misfits who thrive in poverty, ignorance and anarchy. 
 President Bush, at last year's United Nations conference on poor nations in Monterrey, Mexico, said that "we fight against poverty because hope is an answer to terror." Senator John Warner, the Virginia Republican, argued that a new security doctrine including wars of preemption was necessary because "those who would commit suicide in their assaults on the free world are not rational." A State Department report issued on the first anniversary of the 9/11 attacks said that development aid should be based "on the belief that poverty provides a breeding ground for terrorism." 
 As logical as the poverty-breeds-terrorism argument may seem, study after study shows that suicide attackers and their supporters are rarely ignorant or impoverished. Nor are they crazed, cowardly, apathetic or asocial. If terrorist groups relied on such maladjusted people, "they couldn't produce effective and reliable killers," according to Todd Stewart, a retired Air Force general who directs the Ohio State University program in international and domestic security. 
In the suicide bombing of a cafe in Tel Aviv last week that killed three bystanders, for instance, the bomber and the man accused of being his accomplice grew up in Britain, in relatively prosperous circumstances, and attended college. 
The Princeton economist Alan Krueger and others released a study in 2002 comparing Lebanese Hezbollah militants who died in violent action to other Lebanese of the same age group. He found that the Hezbollah members were less likely to come from poor homes and more likely to have a secondary school education.
Nasra Hassan, a Pakistani relief worker, interviewed nearly 250 aspiring Palestinian suicide bombers and their recruiters. "None were uneducated, desperately poor, simple-minded or depressed," she reported in 2001. "They all seemed to be entirely normal members of their families."
A 2001 poll by the nonprofit Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey Research indicated that Palestinian adults with 12 years or more of education are far more likely to support bomb attacks than those who cannot read. 
Officials with the Army Defense Intelligence Agency who have interrogated Saudi-born members of Al Qaeda being detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, have told me that these fundamentalists, especially those in leadership positions, are often educated above reasonable employment level; a surprising number have graduate degrees and come from high-status families. Their motivation and commitment are evident in their willingness to sacrifice material and emotional comforts (families, jobs, physical security), to travel long distances and to pay their own way. 
The body of research shows that over all, suicide terrorists tend not to have the attributes of the socially dysfunctional (fatherless, friendless, jobless). They don't vent fear of enemies or express hopelessness or a sense of "nothing to lose" because of lack of a career or social mobility as would be consistent with economic theories of criminal behavior. Suicide attackers don't opt for paradise out of despair. If they did, say Muslim clerics who countenance martyrdom for Allah but not personal suicide, their actions would be criminal and blasphemous.
A study of world attitudes toward America by the Pew Research Center in December 2002 and many other polls of Muslims from Algeria to Indonesia show ever-rising support for "martyrs." A United Nations report indicated that as soon as the United States began building up for the Iraq invasion, Qaeda recruitment has picked up in 30 to 40 countries. Recruiters for groups sponsoring terrorist acts tell researchers that volunteers are beating down the doors to join.
This allows terrorist agents to choose recruits who are intelligent, psychologically balanced and socially poised. Candidates who mostly want virgins in paradise or money for their families are weeded out. Those selected show patience and the ability to plan and execute in subtle, quiet ways that don't draw attention. Al Qaeda, especially, is rarely in a hurry. It can wait years and then strike when least expected.
It's the particular genius of the institutions like Al Qaeda, Hamas or Hezbollah that they are able to make otherwise well-adjusted people into human bombs. Intense indoctrination, often lasting 18 months or more, causes recruits to identify emotionally with their terrorist cell, viewing it as a family for whom they are as willing to die as a mother for her child or a soldier for his buddies. Consider the oath taken by members of Harkat al Ansar, a Pakistan-based ally of Al Qaeda: "Each martyr has a special place -- among them are brothers, just as there are sons and those even more dear." 
Brian Barber, a psychologist at the University of Tennessee, has interviewed some 900 young adults from Gaza and a comparison group of Bosnian Muslims who had also suffered through violence but had not become a source of suicide bombers. The Bosnians had markedly weaker expressions of self-esteem and less hope for the future. Faith was the largest difference: the Palestinians routinely invoked religion to invest personal trauma with social meaning, whereas the Bosnians did not consider religion significant to their life.
This overall pattern was also captured in a white paper by the Parliament of Singapore concerning captured operatives from Jemaah Islamiyah, a militant group allied with Al Qaeda: "These men were not ignorant, destitute or disenfranchised. Like many of their counterparts in militant Islamic organizations in the region, they held normal, respectable jobs. As a group, most of the detainees regarded religion as their most important personal value." 
Like the best Madison Avenue advertisers, but to ghastlier effect, the charismatic leaders of terrorist groups turn ordinary desires for family and religion into cravings for what they're pitching.
How do we combat these masters of manipulation? President Bush and many American politicans maintain that these groups and the people supporting them hate our democracy and freedoms. But poll after poll of the Muslim world shows opinion strongly favoring America's forms of government, personal liberty and education. A University of Michigan political scientist, Mark Tessler, finds Arab attitudes to American culture most favorable among young adults (regardless of their religious feeling) -- the same population that recruiters single out. 
It is our actions that they don't like: as long ago as 1997, a Defense Department report (in response to the 1996 suicide bombing of Air Force housing at the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia) noted that "historical data show a strong correlation between U.S. involvement in international situations and an increase in terrorist attacks against the United States." 
Shows of military strength don't seem to dissuade terrorists: witness thefailure of Israel's coercive efforts to end the string of Palestinian suicide bombings. Rather, we need to show the Muslim world the side of our culture that they most respect. Our engagement needs to involve interfaith initiatives, not ethnic profiling. America must address grievances, such as the conflict in the Palestinian territories, whose daily images of violence engender global Muslim resentment. 
Of course, this does not mean negotiating with terrorist groups over goals like Al Qaeda's quest to replace the Western-inspired system of nation-states with a global caliphate. Osama bin Laden seeks no compromise. But most of the people who sympathize with him just might.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jonathon Rosen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); ARMIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUICIDE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); AL-QAEDA (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); RELIGION (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); HEZBOLLAH (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN WARNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) MEXICO (92%); LEBANON (91%); CUBA (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



141 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hopes to Bridge Divide With Europein Trade Talks 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: MUNICH, May 3 

 BODY:
Europe and the United States clashed bitterly over the war in Iraq, but a senior American official is urging the two sides to use trade negotiations as a way to mend fences.
 Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, told German business executives in Munich today, "Here's an opportunity we can seize together, because it is in our mutual interest and the common interest." 
 In an interview, Mr. Zoellick said cooperating on free trade would allow Germany to do more than "wring hands" about its strained ties with Washington. Germany could reclaim at least a measure of its traditional role as a reliable partner. "I'm making it easy for them," he said. 
Mr. Zoellick was ending a weeklong swing through Europe, during which he met with finance and trade ministers in Berlin and Paris, as well as Europe's commissioner for trade, Pascal Lamy.
While Mr. Zoellick said there was still resistance to American proposals to reduce trade barriers, particularly in agriculture and particularly from the French, he was leaving Europe "with some slight additional optimism."
His choice of Munich to deliver this message was laden with symbolism. The last senior American official to come to this city was Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, not long after he dismissed Germany and France as "old Europe" for their opposition of the war.
Mr. Rumsfeld sparred with the German foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, during his appearance at a security conference, while protesters thronged outside to denounce the Bush administration.
There were no protesters at this economic conference, and Mr. Zoellick, after opening with "Gruss Gott," a traditional Bavarian salutation meaning "God's greeting," was applauded enthusiastically by the audience of German captains of industry.
Still, Mr. Zoellick's remarks underscored the depth of the divide between Europe and the United States in trade. He pressed the Europeans to reduce their $60 billion in subsidies to farmers to close a gap with the United States, which has proposed deep cuts in tariffs and subsidies.
European countries, particularly France, are resisting such measures. Unless the United States and Europe compromise on agriculture, it could scuttle the current round of trade talks, which began in 2001 in Doha, Qatar, and is supposed to yield an agreement by January 2005.
"We really are at a crunch point in the next couple of months," Mr. Zoellick said, noting that the World Trade Organization would hold a key meeting in Cancun, Mexico, in September to assess its progress.
Mr. Zoellick played down the threat by some American lawmakers that the United States would withdraw from the World Trade Organization if Europe did not back down on its farm policy. Earlier in the week, in Paris, he dismissed talk of trade sanctions against France.
Mr. Zoellick has deep ties to Germany, dating to his role as a State Department aide who helped develop the United States policy on German reunification in 1990. He made it clear that he and other White House officials still felt stung by Germany's strident opposition of the war.
"I'm not hiding the fact that there was disappointment and even hurt," he said. "In France's case, I was even more specific, because I think in France's case there was an active effort to work against the U.S."
Mr. Zoellick said Germany and France did not help matters by meeting recently in Brussels with Belgium and Luxembourg to discuss a new European defense structure that would, in effect, parallel NATO.
"In a way, that meeting was a parody," Mr. Zoellick said. "Does anyone really believe that Belgium and Luxembourg are going to be the nucleus of a new security force in Europe?"
While trade may be a less charged issue, some experts say the gulf between the United States and Europe is too wide to be bridged in time for a deal by 2005. "Very few people are optimistic that's going to happen," said J. Peter Neary, a professor of political economy at University College Dublin.
Still, Mr. Zoellick's remarks may counter a growing belief in Europe that the so-called Doha round is already doomed. People here said they were encouraged that Mr. Zoellick praised Mr. Lamy, a Frenchman, and avoided criticizing the French president, Jacques Chirac.
"It is a relief that there are still people in Washington who understand how Europe works," said Norbert Walter, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank, who was in the audience. "Zoellick can serve as a bridge." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); POLITICS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (90%); PASCAL LAMY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (98%); FRANCE (94%); QATAR (92%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



142 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Well, It Played In Peekskill. Will It in Iowa?

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
 JANUARY 2008. An interview with George E. Pataki:

Q. Mr. Pataki, Republicans in Iowa are about to give the country the first official insight into the popularity of candidates in this year's presidential race. You are from the Northeast, you went to Yale, and you live in Peekskill, N.Y., not rural Texas. You were governor of New York when it went from bust to boom to bust again. What makes you think you can be elected president?

A. I fought job-killing taxes.

Q. Governor, the religious right is so influential in Iowa that in 2000, George W. Bush, who had tried to plant himself in the center, moved to the right on abortion and emphasized his religious beliefs. You favor abortion rights and have not paraded your religion. How can you win in Iowa?

A. I will tell the people that just as I did in New York, I will fight job-killing taxes.

Q. There are other matters that concern Iowa voters. For instance, you favored gun control and antismoking laws as governor. Do you think those positions will sit well with Iowa Republicans?

A. The people of Iowa have a lot in common with the people of New York. I intend to explain to the voters of Iowa and the rest of the country that I will oppose job-killing taxes when I get to the White House, just as I did in Albany.

Q. As long as you have brought it up, your fiscal policies were somewhat controversial. You did try to hold the line on tax increases in that critical year of 2003, but conservative critics said the budget gap would not have been so large that year if you had been more prudent earlier.

A. I was not responsible for the national recession, the impact of Sept. 11, the collapse of Wall Street. I led the state to unprecedented prosperity before factors beyond our control hurt our budget, and when they did, remember, I refused to increase job-killing taxes.

Q. But, governor, the respected weekly journal The Economist wrote in April of that difficult budget year that after you won your first term running as a fiscal conservative and reduced the state budget in your first year, you let the budget grow faster than inflation every year after that.

A. As I have said, I did not raise job-killing taxes.

Q. Thank you for explaining that. The Economist also said, however, that the budget grew not only during affluent years, when you might have better prepared for leaner times, but also after that, when the state was already hurting from Sept. 11 and the national recession, and you continued to spend generously. Were your policies inspired by your campaign for re-election?

A. Well, my critics even thought politics inspired my trip to Vieques -- to demonstrate opposition to naval maneuvers on that Puerto Rican island. Would New York's taxpayers have paid for that trip if it was politically motivated? Polls never influenced my judgment about what my state needed. And New York did not -- have I made this point yet? -- need job-killing taxes.

Q. Mr. Pataki, detractors asked why, in your 2002 re-election year, you spent state dollars on wage increases for health care workers, teachers and other union members. Why, they ask, did you delay transit fare increases? And why did you expand Medicaid, the largest burden on New York's local governments?

A. As I always say, the polls go up, the polls go down. That in no way affected my policies. As governor, I made the tough decisions. Especially the decision to fight job-killing taxes.

Q. Yes, taxes. After the Legislature approved tax increases to help local governments close their own budget gaps, you continued to fight the increases. Some said that marked you as a weak leader, but others said it revealed your national ambition.

A. As I said, I ignore polls, which go up and go down. Job-killing taxes should never go up.

Q. Mr. Pataki, since most of the Legislature's tax increases went into effect in 2003 despite your opposition, and local governments still had to cut services and raise their own taxes, what was the practical impact of your hold-the-line strategy?

A. It showed that the governor of the Empire State would not go along with raising job-killing taxes. The people of this great state of Iowa can be assured that what I did for New York, I will do for the country. That is a promise.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 9, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Metro Matters column on Monday, about Gov. George E. Pataki's opposition to "job-killing taxes," misidentified his place of residence. It is Garrison, N.Y.; Peekskill is the city where he was once mayor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); RELIGION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GUN CONTROL (69%); ABORTION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (62%); SMOKING BANS (52%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2008; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) PURNICK, JOYCE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



143 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: THE ASIAN ARENA; 
BUSH SHIFTS FOCUS TO NUCLEAR SALES BY NORTH KOREA

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., May 4 

 BODY:
Tacitly acknowledging that North Korea may not be deterred from producing plutonium for nuclear weapons, President Bush is now trying to marshal international support for preventing the country from exporting nuclear material, American and foreign officials say.
 Mr. Bush discussed the new approach on Saturday morning with Australia's prime minister, John Howard, after the two men were given a lengthy briefing at Mr. Bush's ranch by the chief American negotiator with North Korea, James A. Kelly, officials said. 
 For a decade, the United States' declared policy has been that North Korea would be prevented, by any means necessary, from producing plutonium or highly enriched uranium. President Bill Clinton ordered the Pentagon to draw up plans for a military strike when the North threatened to begin production in 1994, but a nuclear freeze agreement was reached later that year. 
Mr. Bush's new focus on blocking the sale of nuclear material to countries or terrorist groups reflects intelligence officials' conclusion that they cannot ascertain whether North Korea was bluffing when it claimed last month that it had already reprocessed enough spent nuclear fuel to make many weapons.
"The president said that the central worry is not what they've got, but where it goes," said an official familiar with the talks between Mr. Bush and Mr. Howard. "He's very pragmatic about it, and the reality is that we probably won't know the extent of what they are producing. So the whole focus is to keep the plutonium from going further."
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, in an appearance on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," insisted today that the administration's long-term goal was to force North Korea to dismantle all of its nuclear weapons programs. He vowed that it would get no international aid unless its government changed course.
"Everybody has now made it clear to North Korea that they will not find any assistance coming to them from the region in terms of economic development," he said, "unless they abandon their nuclear weapons programs." 
But in recent interviews, several American officials have said that it was becoming clear that the policy that Mr. Clinton described in 1994 -- when he warned that producing plutonium could result in an American attack to destroy the nuclear facilities at Yongbyon -- was probably not sustainable anymore.
South Korea's new president, Roh Moo Hyun, who will visit Washington for the first time next week, "has made it clear he won't consider military action of any kind," said one senior administration official. "It's a different atmosphere than in 1994."
Another official who has discussed the issue with Mr. Bush said his thinking was that the North Koreans "are looking to get us excited, to make us issue declarations."
"And his answer to them is," the official added, 'You're hungry, and you can't eat plutonium.' "
Still, Mr. Bush's approach is a major gamble -- one that depends on superb intelligence about North Korea's efforts to sell its weapons. So far, though, the nuclear program has been what one American intelligence official calls "the black hole of Asia."
American officials have apparently been unable to find new facilities they believe North Korea is building -- presumably underground -- to produce highly enriched uranium, a technology obtained largely from Pakistan in a trade for missiles. 
Unlike North Korea's missiles, which can be seen by satellites as they are loaded into ships and sent to Iran, Syria, Yemen and other nations, weapons-grade nuclear material is easily transportable. Experts say that material would be relatively easy to transport over North Korea's long border with China, part of the reason that Mr. Bush is working to engage the Chinese leadership in confronting North Korea about its nuclear program.
"It's a fantasy to think you can put a hermetic seal around North Korea and keep them from getting a grapefruit-size piece of plutonium out of the country," said Ashton B. Carter, a Harvard professor who worked on Korea issues in the Clinton administration, said today. "To allow North Korea to go nuclear is a major defeat for U.S. security."
The Bush administration has been deeply divided over how to counter North Korea's efforts to turn its nuclear program into cash, with some of the more hawkish members urging that talks be abandoned. They want the United States and its allies -- including China, if it is willing -- to enforce an embargo that could include the interdiction of North Korean freighters. 
Spanish forces intercepted a ship full of missiles headed for Yemen last year, though Mr. Bush decided to let the ship deliver its goods after Yemen's president protested.
Mr. Powell was asked today how the United States would react to the development of a large nuclear arsenal in North Korea, and he answered, "Their nuclear weapons are not going to purchase them any political standing that will cause us to be frightened or to think that somehow we now have to march to their tune." He made no suggestion, however, that the United States would take military action against the main nuclear facilities that Mr. Clinton considered attacking.
But when asked whether the United States would ever allow North Korea to sell or transfer nuclear weapons, Mr. Powell said, "Absolutely not."
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said today that he and other former defense secretaries had been briefed on the military plan in 1994 by the secretary of defense at the time, William J. Perry. But he declined to draw the same "red line" for the North Koreans, saying that any decision on military action would have to made by Mr. Bush.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Howard said nothing about North Korea after their meeting on Saturday. Mr. Bush's aides say they hope to continue the low-key approach. 
But they are counting on growing aid from China, which was the host of the talks last week. To build support among Chinese leaders there is talk within the administration of letting China convene another meeting. "We might be willing to go to a second round," one senior administration official said. "The North Koreans have to come prepared to say what they will do, rather than bargain for what they can get." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN HOWARD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



144 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Bucking Bush, Senator Takes A Thorny Path 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4 

 BODY:
Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, is the woman who said no -- to her president, to her party's leadership in the Senate, to the House of Representatives. It has not been easy, she says.
 President Bush sought $726 billion in tax cuts over 10 years. House Republicans were willing to settle for $550 billion. But Ms. Snowe, an influential moderate and a pivotal vote on the Senate Finance Committee, has said, consistently and implacably, that $350 billion is as far as she will go. 
 So she had to look the president in the eye -- "a friend and somebody I admire and respect very much" -- and tell him that she could not be with him this time.
"Obviously, you'd like to work things out if you can," Ms. Snowe, 56, said in an interview. "But if you can't, because it contravenes what you believe in, it makes it very difficult. I'm just having a hard time with the fact that I'm looking at these deficits down the road."
The decision by Ms. Snowe, along with a handful of other moderate Republicans in the Senate who balked at the size of the original tax cut proposal, has tied the Republican Congress in knots. Some Democrats have long grumbled that Republican moderates inevitably cave to their party's conservative leaders in the end, but so far Ms. Snowe and the others have not.
Her vote will be crucial this week when the Senate Finance Committee takes up tax cut legislation. The committee has 11 Republicans and 10 Democrats, which makes it difficult to find a majority on such polarizing issues as the president's push to eliminate taxation of dividends.
Ms. Snowe, who came to the House in 1978 and was elected to the Senate in 1994, has come to symbolize the strains in her party between moderates and conservatives, deficit hawks and tax cutters.
Many supply-siders are furious that a popular president, coming off the war in Iraq, is being thwarted in his quest for huge tax cuts by Republicans like Ms. Snowe. The Club for Growth, a conservative group, has run television advertising in Maine asserting that the senator is "standing in the way" of Mr. Bush on the tax cuts, just as the French stood in his way on the war in Iraq.
The commercials clearly infuriate her. "I can only regard that, interpret that, as suggesting that I'm unpatriotic, and that did offend me," she said. In a state where many people are of French descent, the ads almost certainly did not hurt her politically, political analysts said.
Ms. Snowe has also had her Republican bona fides challenged by tax cutters like Grover G. Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, who asked, "If you're not for tax cuts, and you're liberal on social issues, what's the difference between you and a Democrat?"
Ms. Snowe replied that it was a strange time when support for a $350 billion tax cut was considered insufficiently zealous. "I just think it's amazing that anybody would question my Republican credentials," she said. "New England Republicans represent the traditional roots of the Republican Party."
For those who remember the alienation and ultimate defection of another moderate New England Republican, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, who became an independent, Ms. Snowe said flatly that there would be no repeat. "I'm not going away," she said. "I like to remind them of our traditional roots, and part of that heritage is fiscal responsibility and accountability. That's a heritage we can't abandon, and that gets back to deficits. I don't want balanced budgets to be a brief fiscal interlude."
Ms. Snowe has indicated some flexibility on the tax cuts. She has said she would go somewhat above $350 billion, for example, if the costs are offset elsewhere in the budget by specific spending cuts or raising revenue through closing tax loopholes.
In fact, Ms. Snowe said, she is largely driven by her past -- by years of service on the budget committees of the House and Senate, by watching the deficits accumulate in the 1980's, the repeated attempts to eliminate them in the 1990's and then, finally, the appearance of not just balanced budgets but surpluses. Now those surpluses are gone, as the baby boomers head toward Medicare and Social Security.
"I see this collision between our current deficits, the cumulative deficits and the baby boomer retirement starting in 2013," she said. "Have I missed something? We're in the decade of the century when it matters -- what our financial standing is, our preparation to meet these financial obligations. The future is now. We're upon it."
The counterargument from conservatives is that the deficits are still quite manageable, that the economy badly needs the stimulus of a large tax cut, and that a robust and growing economy is the best long-term solution to deficits. 
Still, Ms. Snowe's stand is hardly unpopular back home: fiscal conservatism and social liberalism is the recipe for Republican victories in New England. She bucks the Bush administration on tax cuts, abortion rights and environmental issues like drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Those positions may not fit the prevailing conservatism among Republicans, but "Olympia Snowe is the best Republican the national party can get out of New England," said Darrell West, a political scientist at Brown University. 
"She's getting overwhelming support back home," said Representative Tom Allen, Democrat of Maine. "To have an outside group come in and run television ads against a senator who's doing exactly what people in Maine think she ought to be doing is a gift."
Ms. Snowe said she was weary of the current partisanship on Capitol Hill. "If you want to get something done, and get away from the 'all or nothing, my way or no way,' proposition, it is a very difficult environment, to say the least," she said.
But she says she is a survivor, above all. Her mother died of breast cancer when Ms. Snowe was 8. Her father died of heart disease when she was 9. Ms. Snowe went off to a boarding school in New York run by the Greek Orthodox Church. "You grow up quickly," she said. "You become very independent."
Ms. Snowe's first husband, Peter Snowe, a state representative in Maine, died in a car accident in 1973, and she was elected to his seat in the Legislature, where she served until she ran for the House in 1978. In 1989, she married John McKernan, a former colleague in the House and a former governor of Maine.
Mr. McKernan said those who think they can get Ms. Snowe to change her mind "are people who haven't met her, apparently."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine. (Associated Press)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX REFORM (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003 



145 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: GOTHAM; 
At This Address, Not Everyone Starts on the Ground Floor

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
ON the second floor of 336 West 37th Street in Manhattan, a sign on the door of Regency Fashion says the minimum wage is $5.15 an hour. Someone has scribbled a 1 after the dollar sign. Inside, most of the sewing machines are silent. A Chinese deity looks over the factory floor from behind a mound of partly burned incense sticks. Several of the dozen workers have tied strips of red fabric around their noses to block the dust.
 "We are very slow this week," said Angela Ng, a worker. She considers herself lucky to have a steady job, 8 to 10 hours a day, five to six days a week. 
 Eight stories up, sunlight floods the spacious workshop of Christopher Spitzmiller, who makes expensive ceramic lamps. Seated at his potter's wheel, he can see a new luxury residential building nearby, as well as the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and the Hudson River. 
"When I rented it, it was like a fire had gone off in here," Mr. Spitzmiller said of his 2,700-square-foot studio, which had been a rundown manufacturing space. He renovated -- no, transformed -- the space and installed a kiln. He produces about 60 lamps a month for people like President Bush and Oprah Winfrey.
A 14-story building with a penthouse, on the western edge of the garment district, 336 West 37th Street not only reflects the economic and ethnic variety of New York's small businesses, but is also a barometer of their success. Within this 75-year-old building, the businesses literally rise and fall with the economic winds. Take the elevator up and, floor by floor, the windows let in more light. The paint in the hallways changes from dark gray to silver. Fabric carts give way to chandeliers. 
Some companies move up. Some move down. Others disappear. Philippe Ifrah, a partner at I.G.S. Realty Company, which owns the building, said he had a $4.5 million mortgage. He shepherds struggling businesses into smaller, cheaper spaces on the lower floors and reserves top-floor vistas for tenants who can pay the higher rents.
In the late 1990's, Regency Fashion, a clothing manufacturer, ceded its space on the sixth floor and now occupies a small space on the second floor. In 2001, Apparel Cutting, also a clothing maker, tumbled from the 11th floor to the 2nd floor. 
Another tenant, James Brady, has a catering and event planning company that took over the 11th floor in January 2001; two years later, he opened a party space in the penthouse. "After my cousin died at the World Trade Center -- he was a fireman -- it took the fear out of me," Mr. Brady said. "Failing is not an option."
Down at Apparel Cutting, failure is very much an option. Tony Hoti, who came to New York from Yugoslavia in 1969, founded the company with his brother, Dominick, in 1985. At its peak in the late 80's, Apparel had 14 full-time employees. Now, it employs two to four temporary workers. "I try to do it myself, really, with family help," Mr. Hoti said. "There is not much left." He said he paid his workers $12 to $14 an hour and cannot compete with cheaper labor overseas. "I'm just trying to buy time until I retire. I wish I was a cook."
The garment district, which stretches roughly from Fifth Avenue to Ninth Avenue, between 35th and 40th Streets, has been mostly overlooked by the big corporations that dominate the city's economy. According to the New York State Department of Labor, 90 percent of the city's 214,419 private companies had 19 or fewer employees in September 2002, the latest data that is available. But these small businesses employed only 24 percent of the city's 2.9 million workers. 
There have been some successful government initiatives designed to encourage the growth of small businesses in New York City, but mostly these owners have had to fend for themselves. After nearly three years of a bruising recession and more than two decades of skyrocketing real estate costs, many small businesses have settled in the garment district, which is in Midtown but is cheaper than other commercial parts of Manhattan.
The district was developed in the 20's and 30's to accommodate the booming women's fashion trade, and most buildings are unsuitable for large firms. 
"The garment center has older properties built at a time when major corporations weren't the norm in New York City," said Matthew Astrachan, an executive director at Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate company. "Therefore, they have smaller floor plates that aren't as attractive to the larger business owner."
THAT has helped to keep rents low. In the first quarter of this year, the average rent for office space in the district was $31.27 a square foot, according to Cushman & Wakefield, an amount much lower than the citywide average of $41.97. (The rents at 336 West 37th Street average $14 to $16 a square foot because the building is mainly industrial loft spaces.) 
In the mid-90's, Internet companies flocked to the neighborhood. Most have vaporized. Fashion businesses still dominate the area, making up two-thirds of rental tenants, but their presence is waning. From 1989 to 2000, the number of fashion-related jobs in the neighborhood fell 15 percent, according to a study commissioned by the Fashion Center Business Improvement District. Apparel manufacturers were hit especially hard. Meanwhile, photographers, graphic designers, theaters, nonprofit corporations, real estate companies, architects, accountants, insurance companies and small law firms have been moving in. These companies prefer the open factory floors that the district offers. 
Mr. Ifrah started managing 336 West 37th Street in the mid-90's. Then, all the tenants were garment manufacturers, he said, who paid an average of $7 a square foot for rent. Many of them, decimated by the steady flow of manufacturing jobs overseas, could not pay their rent. The building declared bankruptcy in 1995. By 1999, Mr. Ifrah and his partners refinanced and completed a $500,000 renovation. "We created a new image," said Mr. Ifrah, a native of Madrid. "From that point on, we started seeing the rents go up." 
Now, 16 of the 35 tenants are garment manufacturers. Others include photo studios, a kickboxing gym and the Art Party, a theater company managed by the actor Alan Cumming and Nick Philippou. Two art theaters, the Zipper and the Belt, occupy the ground floor, which once housed a zipper warehouse and a belt factory.
Mr. Ifrah, whose desk is a slab of polished marble propped on two sawhorses, said he gave many of his artistic tenants a break on their rent. Creative tenants lend cachet to the building, he said, and usually renovate their spaces beautifully. They tend not to mind the neighborhood's rough edges.
"I have had people complain, 'I can't bring my Park Avenue clients down here,' " said Mr. Spitzmiller, the lamp maker. But, he added, most of the decorators that he deals with appreciate the district's unruly quality. "Ninth Avenue has soul." Those seeking steel-and-glass towers, or bothered by the presence of a methadone clinic, know to look elsewhere.
Moreno Giannaccini, an Italian-born sculptor, rents space on the seventh floor. Everything except the bottles of grappa and Seagram's Extra Dry gin is splattered with white plaster. "I used to be on the 15th-floor" penthouse, he said. "Now they are the beautiful people."
Over the years, Mr. Giannaccini has traveled the city rooting out studio space that could be one step ahead of gentrification. "He probably is going to tell me in a couple of years: 'You get out. You can't afford it,' " Mr. Giannaccini said, gesturing to Mr. Ifrah. 
Mr. Ifrah just shook his head and blushed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: UPSTAIRS, DOWNSTAIRS -- Philippe Ifrah, left, a partner at I.G.S. Realty Company, which owns 336 W. 37th Street, above, steers struggling businesses to lower floors and reserves upper floors for tenants who can pay higher rents.; 15TH FLOOR -- James Brady expanded his catering and events business, opening this party space in the penthouse.; 2ND FLOOR -- Tough times forced Regency Fashion to move down from the sixth to this smaller, cheaper space.; 10TH FLOOR -- Christopher Spitzmiller at a potter's wheel in his studio, where he makes pricey ceramic lamps.; 7TH FLOOR -- Lower down but not out, Moreno Giannaccini, a sculptor, moved here from the 15th-floor penthouse.; GROUND FLOOR -- Lee Davis, left, and Andrew McTiernan, owners of both the Belt Theater and the Zipper Theater. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); APPAREL MFG (89%); FABRICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (86%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); PROPERTY LEASES (73%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) SMALL BUSINESS; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%) KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



146 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: GETTING STARTED; 
Big Mistakes! And Some Tips on How to Avoid Them

BYLINE:  By JULIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
THIS may seem like the worst of times to start a small business, but in some ways, a downturn is the best of times.
 "Bad times make you more focused," said Judith Gerberg, a career counselor in New York who started her own business 18 years ago. "You are going to be more conscious of what you are spending on. You'll be slower to expand and more cautious about hiring. Your expectations will be more reasonable." 
 A ready supply of talent, an abundance of office space and less competition for financing are other reasons to consider starting a business when the economy is lagging, experts say. But regardless of the economic climate, there are rules that apply to anyone embarking on an entrepreneurial venture, at any time. 
Of every 100 Americans 18 years or over, 6.2 are engaged in starting a business, according to a study funded by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City, Mo., which provides education and information about small businesses. Unfortunately, new business failures are common. "Most new businesses fail, and they do so within the first three years," said Rebecca Macieira-Kaufmann, an executive vice president who specializes in small business at Wells Fargo, the banking company. 

Educate Yourself
Plug the words "starting your own business" into any search engine and you will be overwhelmed by the number of responses. Among them is My Own Business (www.myownbusiness.org), a Web site operated by a nonprofit group that offers a free online course on starting a business. There is also FastTrac (www.fasttrac.org), which offers classes in small business around the country. Rob Chernow, the senior vice president for entrepreneurship at the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, which sponsors FastTrac, said: "The courses help people figure out if being an entrepreneur is for them. They are able to flesh out if they are likely to have a viable business."

Consider Moonlighting
"Who says we are obliged to quit our jobs when we start a business?" said Philip Holland, the author of "How to Start a Business Without Quitting Your Job." "I once did but only because at the time I didn't know any better." 
Assuming you do not have an enormous need for sleep, keeping your day job gives you income and something to fall back on if the new venture fails. If you are thinking of starting a business in a field that you are unfamiliar with, consider getting a second job in that field before taking the plunge. After you have been on your feet all day as a chambermaid-cum-waitress at a charming little bed-and-breakfast, you may not fantasize so much about opening one. You will also have a better idea of what is required.

Harness Your Passion
 Passion underlies the sweat equity that you need to start your own business. Amy Millman, the president of Springboard Enterprises, a Washington company that helps women entrepreneurs find investors, said, "Entrepreneurs underestimate the importance of passion to get them through the hard times." 
Then there is the cash commitment that lenders or investors usually want to see before they agree to back your business. Even the Small Business Administration, a federal agency that guarantees bank loans to small businesses, expects you to have equity in your business totaling 25 to 50 percent of the loan you are requesting.
Carolyn A. Minerich of Jacksonville, Ala., invested both sweat equity and cash in her business. She took the $250,000 in savings she and her husband had accumulated and in 1996 started Carmin Industries, a metal-fabricating company that uses a water-jet technology that can cut through as much as six inches of stone and metal without burning the edges. It took years for the company to get off the ground, but today Ms. Minerich has a business earning annual revenues of $1 million, a 30,000-square-foot factory, 20 employees and clients including Walt Disney World in Florida, which ordered a 50-foot Mickey Mouse hand.
Raj Khera of Rockville, Md., started GovCon.com in 1995 with his brother Vivek and another partner. The Internet portal enables contractors to learn about bidding opportunities for government projects. Mr. Khera and his partners were software consultants by day and worked on their business at night.
Four years later, GovCon was sold to VerticalNet, and Mr. Khera and his brother used their profits to start MailerMailer .com, a company that helps businesses organize and maintain e-mail lists.

Develop a Thick Skin
Get used to rejection because you will experience a lot of it. "I'm constitutionally unable to hear the word no," said Lorraine C. Scarpa, a co-founder of ImmediateFX, a software firm in Monroe, Conn. 

Stay Focused
Focus is the process of defining your business -- what your niche is, who your customers are and how you will serve them. "You need to find out what you can make money at, what customers would buy from you," Mr. Khera said. "You'll always have competitors, so is there something you can make that fits into a specific niche?" Also, when you are looking for financing, investors and lenders will want to know what makes you different from the others out there and how well you understand your market. 
Before starting ImmediateFX with James Friedman and another partner, Ms. Scarpa and Mr. Friedman used to meet for lunch to talk about problems in the marketing industry -- she from the perspective of a buyer of marketing data, he as the head of a company that provided it. 
"We had that 'Aha!' moment in a restaurant," Mr. Friedman recalled. "We realized we had a business." In 1999, they started their company, selling software to integrate marketing data, and now have a business with annual revenues of $5 million.

Keep It Simple
It is one thing to be flexible when you are starting a business; and another to lose your focus by taking on any -- and all -- business to bring in money. This was a temptation faced by Michael Kimelman and Sheila Baird when they started their investment advisory firm, Kimelman & Baird, in Manhattan in 1966. They began by focusing on undervalued securities and, despite pressure over the years to take a different approach, have remained that way. Now, they manage $300 million in assets.
Besides sticking to their core business, Ms. Baird said, they kept a strict eye on costs. She advised anybody starting a company to "spend your money on systems and personnel that you need to run the business, but don't let yourself get saddled with heavy costs because then you are tempted to do things away from your focus just to cover your costs."
Although they paid themselves salaries, the partners did not give themselves raises for the first 15 years. If there were profits at the end of the year, the partners shared them, "but we never increased our salaries," Mr. Kimelman said. "That would have meant more overhead."

Putting Success on Paper
"People tend just to dive in without thinking where they hope to get with their business," said Emily Swenson, a partner at Gansevoort Media, a financial consulting firm in New York.
Ms. Swenson said that entrepreneurs must always be able to answer questions like, How much money do you want to be making in three years? How many employees will you have? How will you be making your product? Where will you be selling it?
Having the answers in your head is not enough; you must also write them down in the form of a business plan. "All business owners should have a business plan," said Ms. Macieira-Kaufmann of Wells Fargo. "It is very hard to have a dialogue about financing without one." 
The thought of writing a business plan strikes fear in the hearts of many would-be entrepreneurs. It should not, though, because there is so much help available. For example, the book "Business Plans That Work," by Joan Gillman, consists of strategies that entrepreneurs have used successfully to raise money. Another useful and comprehensive guide can be found on the Small Business Administration's Web site (www.sba.gov). There is an outline that you can customize for your business, with thorough explanations of what should be included in each section.
"My advice is, don't make it too lengthy -- keep it simple," said Bonita Walsh, the senior managing director for the commercial markets group at Citibank. "You want to describe the business, how you are going to get customers, what the competition is and how the money will come in and go out."

Cash Is King
When small businesses fail, it is usually because of cash-flow problems. "There are very few businesses where the cash comes in equally throughout the year," Ms. Gillman said. As most entrepreneurs discover, customers do not always pay their bills on time. But business owners, unfortunately, have expenses like salaries and rent that have to be paid on a regular basis.
Managing cash flow is all about collecting from customers in a timely way without alienating them, and creating a timetable for paying suppliers without irritating them. Profit and cash are not the same thing, and a business that can show accounting profits can still fold. 
Remember the line, "Show me the money!," from the movie "Jerry Maguire"? Consider that no sale is real until you see the green. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Scott Menchin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (60%) SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%)

PERSON: CONNELLY, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



147 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Small Business; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: SNAPSHOTS; 
Flatiron Bistro Held Together By Family Ties

BYLINE:  By ANNA BAHNEY 

 BODY:
CYRIL RENAUD
BUSINESS: Fleur de Sel restaurant.
LOCATION: New York City.
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 25.
ANNUAL REVENUE: $1.5 million.
 FORTUNATELY, Cyril Renaud can turn on a dime. And work on a shoestring. In October 2000, with the city's economy in the doldrums and just 17 days after signing the lease on his small Flatiron district space, Mr. Renaud opened Fleur de Sel, an elegant French restaurant. 
 "Everything we had to do ourselves," recalled Mr. Renaud of the restaurant's early days, when he took charge of the kitchen, his wife, Brigette, a lawyer, looked after business matters, and the dining room was a family effort. "We were coming in with our own glasses and dishes."
The tabletop jars that would hold the fleur de sel, the famous Brittany sea salt, arrived new from France, handpicked by Mr. Renaud's mother, Hugette, who lives in Nantes. Hisfather, Jean Michel, known to the family as Goldfinger because he can fix anything, arrived in person.
"I didn't even sign the lease yet, and my father was already in the space ripping things up," Mr. Renaud said. 
Some chairs, in a light-blond finish, came with the restaurant. Mr. Renaud, though, envisioned them darker, "for the image of things." He said: "My father took each one apart in my garden in Brooklyn. He had some varnish. But it wasn't the right color. So he took dirt and infused it with the varnish and passed it through -- how do you call it, what ladies wear on their legs? -- stockings. And made his own color."
Limited space was another issue, though that problem cut two ways, Mr. Renaud said. "Right now, we have 17 tables and 40 to 47 seats, depending on how the dining room is set up," he said. "I didn't want to go over that. I wanted to be able to control the food and the quality."
He has succeeded admirably. Mr. Renaud, who had worked at Bouley and La Caravelle, earned glowing praise for his "refined" and "imaginative" French cooking, as reviewed in The New York Times in 2000.
Opening the restaurant when the economy was sliding into recession was not easy, however. "We just have to keep the business afloat," Mr. Renaud said. "That's all."
The paintings that adorn the walls did not require a major expenditure. Mr. Renaud painted them, inspired by the raw materials in his kitchen. "I never painted in my life," he said. "But I wanted to use my creative energy. I started painting watercolors. 
"Then I started playing with acrylics. I didn't have time to experiment with oils because the restaurant opened."
 ANNA BAHNEY

GRAPHIC: Photo: EN FAMILLE -- Cyril Renaud and his wife, Brigette, at their restaurant Fleur de Sel. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PAINTING (77%) RESTAURANTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: FLEUR DE SEL (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: RENAUD, CYRIL; BAHNEY, ANNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



148 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Small Business; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON; 
The Little Guys Are Ready to Rumble

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ANYONE who doubts that small business has big political clout need only recall the truncated two-year career of Senator Jean Carnahan.
 A centrist Democrat from Missouri, Mrs. Carnahan was appointed to the Senate in 2000 after her husband, Mel, the governor of the state, was killed during his senate race but won the election posthumously. Within months, Mrs. Carnahan was bombarded by demands from small-business owners to join Republicans on a vote to permanently repeal the estate tax. 
 The letters came by the hundreds -- passionate, personalized and sometimes even handwritten on company invoices. "I'm going to be 74 soon and my two sons will get what I have when I die," wrote the owner of a printing company. "They should not have to pay taxes of 55 percent on the small business they own." 
When Mrs. Carnahan voted against the measure, she became a target for the National Federation of Independent Business, a nationwide lobbying group of 600,000 small businesses and a machine to mobilize them. "She is sucking the lifeblood out of your business," the federation charged in a flier picturing a hypodermic needle stuffed with money. Placards extolled her Republican challenger for the Senate in 2002, Representative James M. Talent, as a "proven friend" of small business.
Political organizers for the lobbying group in Washington attracted hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions for Mr. Talent, while members in Missouri organized events to promote him and attack Mrs. Carnahan, who had begun the campaign well ahead in the polls but saw her lead evaporate to go down in defeat by 22,000 votes. National Republican groups were also mobilizing to defeat Mrs. Carnahan. But political analysts say the small-business federation played a crucial role, as it did in more than 30 other Congressional races in which it was active.
"Small business has gone from being a player to being the dominant player in the business community," said Dirk Van Dongen, president of the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors and a longtime lobbyist in Washington.
"The big-business guys are more pragmatic, giving a 60-40 split in money to the two parties," he said. "The small-business guys are much more ideological."
As a bitterly divided Congress moves into the decisive phase of battles over President Bush's $726 billion tax-cutting plan, the small-business political machinery is again playing a major role. When the president began a campaign last month on behalf of his plan, he invited more than 250 small-business owners and lobbyists to show their support in a Rose Garden ceremony. When Congress convened for spring break, small-business advocates were waiting in states like Maine and Ohio to influence lawmakers through advertising, meetings and organized events. And the federation is not alone in its activism. Many big lobbying groups that represent small companies pledged their support for Mr. Bush's plan before they knew what was in it. They did so partly on the conviction that any package of tax cuts would be good, but also on the expectation that support for the president's top priorities would mean far more support for their own agenda.
Many admit they were surprised that the biggest element of the plan was the president's proposal to eliminate taxes on stock dividends, a proposal that has no direct impact on most small companies, which are overwhelmingly privately held and do not pay dividends.
"I've been in tax lobbying for 20 years now, and I never spent more than five minutes thinking about dividend taxes," said Mr. Van Dongen.
In justifying their no-questions-asked support for the Bush plan, including the dividend tax cut, small-business lobbyists say that other features will provide a huge benefit to their clients.
Mr. Bush's proposal to accelerate the reduction of individual tax rates, they say, will affect hundreds of thousands of small companies that report their profits through the individual tax returns of their owners. That population includes sole proprietorships, from family grocery stores to local dry cleaners, as well as hundreds of thousands of so-called S corporations. "About 85 percent of our members pay the bulk of their taxes on their individual returns," said Daniel Danner, senior vice president responsible for federal programs at the National Federation of Independent Business. "Their personal return and their business return is one and the same."
The other major enticement for small businesses is a seemingly mundane proposal to triple the amount of money spent on new equipment that a small business can write off as an immediate expense against profits. The proposal, which is of huge interest to mom-and-pop companies that are buying, say, computers or cars or dry-cleaning equipment, would raise the amount to $75,000.
Beyond the immediate issue, however, groups like the National Federation of Independent Business have cultivated their reputations as movers and shakers with easy access to the top echelons of the White House and Congress. One such player is Jack Faris, president and chief executive of the National Federation of Independent Business. "You can rest assured that Andy Card will return his phone calls," said one veteran lobbyist, referring to Andrew H. Card Jr., President Bush's chief of staff.
Democrats, of course, try to woo the small-business vote. John Kerry, the Democratic senator from Massachusetts who is running for president, unveiled a plan last month for tax cuts specifically aimed at small companies. But the Democrats face an uphill fight. There is no question that Republican leaders are more closely aligned with the agenda being pushed by small-business lobbies, and that they listen closely to small-business complaints.
For instance, small-business groups were enraged by regulations imposed in the waning days of the Clinton administration that protected workers against physical problems like repetitive-stress injury from computer keyboards. They amassed a huge coalition that ranged from restaurateurs to courier services, all arguing that the so-called ergonomic requirements would impose major costs and risks to small companies.
Largely by invoking the mantra "small business," a phrase with vague but deeply sympathetic resonance among voters, the Bush administration and Congressional Republicans brushed off intense opposition by labor unions and rescinded most of the regulations.
"What small businesses want most of all is to be left alone," said Frank C. Fillmore Jr., founder of the Fillmore Group, a technology consulting firm in Ellicott City, Md., that has five employees.
That mantra dovetails with the Bush administration's agenda. But the two agendas are not the same, and some veteran lobbyists worry that small-business groups run the risk of being shortchanged.
The most immediate concern is about the tax plan. When the Senate adopted a budget resolution last month that limited the tax cut to $350 billion over 10 years, compared with $550 billion embraced by the House, it greatly increased the probability that part of Mr. Bush's plan would be scrapped.
The question is, which part? President Bush and his top economic team are passionately in favor of the dividend tax cut, which would cost more than $350 billion over 10 years. Small-business groups, on the other hand, are adamant about the expensing provisions and the individual rate reductions.
John S. Satagaj, president of the Small Business Legislative Council, an organization of small trade associations, said the support of small business groups for the entire plan and their appearance in the Rose Garden could undermine their own priorities. "Where our influence is greatest is in the perception that this is what small business wants," Mr. Satagaj said. "When they are in the Rose Garden and the dividend issue is front and center, the message gets out that this is what small business wants."
Small-business lobbyists have been jolted before. After campaigning for Mr. Bush's tax-cutting package in 2001, the groups were stunned when their beloved expensing provision was dropped during Congressional negotiations.
Mr. Van Dongen, who organized the Tax Relief Coalition, a lobbying group of 1,000 companies and others, before Mr. Bush even announced his newest plan, said the risk was worth taking. "There are no guarantees in this game," he said. "But if that fact causes you to pull your punches because you're afraid of losing, you have in effect negotiated yourself out of the game."

GRAPHIC: Photo: HELPING HANDS -- President Bush invited small-business owners to the Rose Garden for a speech on his tax plan. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. G14) Drawing (Elwood H. Smith)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); WHOLESALERS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%) ELECTIONS; SPECIAL SECTIONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



149 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: GOTHAM; 
Yet Another Beginning On Heartbreak Street

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
THERE are some hardships that most small businesses face -- a crumbling economy, cranky customers, sluggish suppliers, errant employees, annoying accountants and, of course, the Internal Revenue Service.
 Then there are the problems that have afflicted a relatively small number of unlucky entrepreneurs, like losing their businesses because of terrorist attacks. That has happened to Olga Diaz -- twice. 
 Ms. Diaz is a hairdresser who owned a beauty salon in the Marriott Hotel in the World Trade Center. It was completely destroyed on Sept. 11, 2001. 
Her previous salon was on the 44th floor of Tower 1 in the trade center; terrorists bombed the parking garage of the complex in 1993. Though the damage from that attack was less physically devastating than the subsequent one, it was nearly as bad economically, Ms. Diaz said recently. For one, all her employees quit.
Now, located a block from ground zero, she has once again reopened Olga's Salon and Spa, using her innate persistence and new skills like applying for loans and grants.
"I was determined that no one was going to knock me down," she said. "Plus, what else was I going to do?"
While her case is extreme, Ms. Diaz's journey has been similar to those of hundreds of businesspeople in New York City who are still coping with the aftermath, financial and emotional, of Sept. 11. Indeed, the shock waves from the attack on the trade center are still being felt at small businesses nationwide, especially in industries like travel and tourism.
"Nationally, small businesses are generally cautious in today's business climate," said Marc M. Goloven, an economist with J. P. Morgan Chase, the Wall Street bank and securities company.
New York, he said, is not terribly different from the rest of the country, except that the local economy is still contracting. For example, the city's unemployment rate is still rising sharply -- it just hit 8.8 percent, while the national unemployment rate increased slightly to 6 percent in April, from 5.8 percent in March.
Among the city's small businesses, Mr. Goloven said, the hardest hit have been those that cater to travelers and tourists and financial workers like stockbrokers, banking managers and insurance executives. All of those people were Ms. Diaz's major clients and had been so since she went into business in 1984. Born in Puerto Rico, she studied fashion in New York but relied on cutting hair to feed her family.
After a stint working at a barbershop in the trade center, she bought the salon on the 44th floor. The place was bustling. "A bar and restaurant on the same floor drew a lot of customers, and they had to pass by me," she said. Many became clients, and she eventually had seven employees.
That changed after the 1993 bombing, which killed six people and injured more than 1,000. "It really created a big problem for me, financially and emotionally," Ms. Diaz said. 
Her employees, who had to walk down from the 44th floor in heavy smoke, were too traumatized to return to the salon. Tight security made it impossible for casual customers to walk in, and it discouraged even longtime clients.
Though the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey found Ms. Diaz a better location in the trade center, her lawyers missed a crucial lease deadline, she said, and in 1995 she ended up working out of her apartment.
Then, through a friend, she heard that the hotel, at 3 World Trade Center, might be willing to house a salon. After much persistence and phone calls, a $20,000 loan and all her credit cards, Ms. Diaz opened her salon there in 1996.
It was a tiny little corner, almost a closet, she said, adding that after her renovations, "A lot of people used to call it a jewel box."
Customers included hotel guests, workers from the two towers and people who came to the hotel for weddings and other events, she said. It was going well and everything was paid for, she added. Her only concern was whether the hotel would renew her lease.
Then, once again, terrorists struck, this time with more catastrophic results. None of Ms. Diaz's employees were killed, but many customers died, and she cannot talk of them without weeping.
When she heard of the early morning attack while visiting her mother in Florida, she said: "I went on my knees and I cried. I knew my clients didn't have a chance."
She lost not only her chairs, equipment and etched mirrors, but also her records, licenses and client lists. And she was displaced from her apartment for three months. (She lives in Battery Park City, near ground zero.)
"Despite everything," she said, "I started looking for a new place right away. I was on a mission to survive."
But finding a spot was hard and paying for it harder. Her insurance on the salon had lapsed while she looked for a new broker. The United States Small Business Administration turned down her loan application. (Fewer than half of those who applied were accepted.) 
She eventually got a $25,000 grant from Seedco, a nonprofit assistance corporation in Manhattan, and a small but critical loan from the Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation. In August, she reopened her salon on the second floor of a building on Cortlandt Street near ground zero, in a space she found herself. 
For the most part, Ms. Diaz is back to worrying about the things small-business owners worry about: that the signs on her building are so cluttered that passers-by will not see hers; that competition from less expensive nail places will put more pressure on manicure prices; that the poor economy will prompt more customers to pinch pennies.
There are still lingering 9/11 issues. One is that the grants she and others received have been declared taxable. And, of course, there is the possibility that not enough people will return to the wounded streets of Lower Manhattan to make her business a go. But she is optimistic. "Little by little, people are coming back," she said. "I see this thing as a long-term situation. I keep high hopes."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Small Business section on May 6 about Olga Diaz, the owner of a beauty salon near ground zero, misstated the taxability of grants received by her and other small business owners after the Sept. 11 attacks. Those from state and local government agencies have been declared taxable. But grants to injured businesses from private foundations, like Seedco, a nonprofit organization that gave Ms. Diaz $25,000, are generally not taxable.

GRAPHIC: Photo: UNDAUNTED -- Olga Diaz has reopened her beauty salon a block from ground zero. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BARBER SHOPS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TERRORISM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%) BEAUTY SALONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SMALL BUSINESS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: DIAZ, OLGA; EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



150 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: TRENDS; 
Young Blacks Try Entrepreneurship

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
THERE is little official evidence to go by, but the anecdotes are pouring in: across the country, more young black professionals are stepping off the corporate ladder to become entrepreneurs. Joining a big company used to be perceived as the surest route to material success by many black professionals, but lately, owning a business has become as attractive, or more so.
 Four years ago, Billye R. Hill was on the old track. With an M.B.A. from the Georgia Institute of Technology in hand, she joined the interactive marketing team at Procter & Gamble in Cincinnati. She loved her job, and thought she would stay for at least five years. But, she said, "I knew going in the door I wasn't meant to work for someone." 
 Soon, Ms. Hill founded a Web site design company as a sideline. As the economy began contracting, Procter & Gamble started offering buyouts to employees as part of a downsizing plan. Ms. Hill, who is now 27, saw an opportunity: she took a payment of about $25,000 -- enough to keep her afloat for several months -- and turned all her attention to her small business.
Ms. Hill's story is on its way to becoming commonplace in Cincinnati, said De Asa M. Brown, the chief executive of the Greater Cincinnati Northern Kentucky African American Chamber of Commerce. The area is home to a large black population and several Fortune 500 companies. Downsizing during the economic downturn, Ms. Brown said, gave people like Ms. Hill the impetus to strike out on their own.
"They had an opportunity to get a great buyout, which was the income they needed to launch their dream," she said.
In the past, the decision Ms. Hill made would have been more difficult, said Barbara B. Lang, the chief executive of the District of Columbia Chamber of Commerce. The new entrepreneurs are "willing to take risks that 10 years ago, 20 years ago, African-Americans were not willing to take," she said. "It's an absolute change in attitude, and not having to feel that the corporate structure is the only way -- or the safe way."
One factor supporting that change is increasing education. Starting a business is "just a natural extension of the career trajectory from getting a degree -- a law degree, an M.B.A., whatever," said Timothy Bates, a professor of urban and labor studies and economics at Wayne State University in Detroit, who has studied black entrepreneurship for more than three decades.
Education has also improved access to capital, long an obstacle for black entrepreneurs. Traditionally, they obtained financing from family, friends and local banks on the strength of their reputations, said Steven S. Rogers, a professor of entrepreneurship at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. But not anymore.
"What we're starting to see are more and more African-American entrepreneurs who have M.B.A.'s," Professor Rogers said. "Now, you're seeing a new generation of African-American entrepreneurs who are looking to access capital from all the available resources."
Professor Bates at Wayne State recently completed a study, with William D. Bradford, a professor of finance at the University of Washington, of venture capital firms that specialize in investing in minority-owned businesses. "The minority venture capital industry has grown over time," he said. "Probably in the 90's it increased about tenfold."
The study, financed by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City, Mo., which promotes education and entrepreneurship, started with venture capital investments made from 1989 to 1995 and tracked them through 2000. Just more than half the investments yielded a positive return, and most of the venture capital funds made money. The foundation will release the study in its entirety later this month. 
In terms of rates of return, Professor Bates said, the minority-focused firms may be "slightly outperforming" the venture capital industry as a whole.
The census bureau also compiles statistics on minority-owned businesses, but it is just now preparing a survey for 2002. The latest figures, which compare 1997 to 1992, show that the number of black-owned companies rose by 26 percent in that period while businesses overall grew by only 7 percent. Looking more deeply at the data, Professor Bates said, reveals other promising trends.
"When you're looking solely at the top-end firms, you'll see that the growth rate is more than twice as high as it is for black businesses generally," he said. "That's been going for a while." 
Between 1992 and 1997, the numbers of relatively small service-oriented businesses like barbershops and beauty parlors barely increased. "The growing firms," Professor Bates said, "are the types of firms that are selling to corporate customers, government customers -- the types of firms that are competing in the broader marketplace."
And in his own study of companies receiving venture capital, he added, "when you look at the profile of the owners, you're looking at people coming out of elite jobs in corporate America."
In Washington, corporate America means big law and public relations firms, more so than Fortune 500 companies. "A lot of lawyers either leave and go into a single-practitioner, or go into industries very different from their law training," said Ms. Lang of the District of Columbia Chamber of Commerce. "The law degree is just a credential for them."
Given the current state of the economy, it is not surprising that some of the new entrepreneurs left their old jobs involuntarily. But the dislocation can act as an impetus to strike out on one's own, Professor Rogers said, especially among people who are looking to guarantee their families' futures. "There's a generation of people that are more into pursuing wealth creation now, rather than just saying, 'I was dissatisfied because of the glass ceiling.' "
Nevertheless, the weak economy has made the road to small-business success more difficult for the new cohort of black entrepreneurs.
Michael L. Hines, 29, started a small marketing firm four years ago while working for Golin/Harris International, a public relations division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, the marketing and communications giant. "I ended up making more money in that company than I did in my full time," he said.
Now, Mr. Hines employs five people at Onemarketspace.com, a market research firm in Washington. But his industry sustained some of the biggest losses outside of investment banking in the economic downturn of the last few years. "It's obviously just a slow market," he said, where making money has become extremely difficult.
Despite the economic constraints, Mr. Hines views entrepreneurship among young black professionals as a robust trend. "Most young African-American men I know are entrepreneurs," he said. "Some are doing significantly well, but we all seem to be doing at least as well as our counterparts in corporate America, even now, even here."
Ms. Lang said she still believed, however, that black entrepreneurs faced special obstacles: "While access to capital is better than it used to be, there are still issues. The playing field has not been completely leveled. It's better than it was 10 years ago, but it's not where it needs to be."

GRAPHIC: Photos: GOOD TIMING -- Billye R. Hill of Cincinnati took a buyout from Procter & Gamble, which allowed her to focus on her Web design company. (Mike Simons for The New York Times); OPEN FOR BUSINESS -- Michael L. Hines, a marketing executive in Washington, sometimes works on a laptop in a coffeehouse. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); TRENDS (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) SMALL BUSINESS; BLACKS 

COMPANY: SITE DESIGN CO LTD (69%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



151 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: SECOND ACTS; 
Three Who Lost Their Job But Gained a New Business

BYLINE:  By KAREN ALEXANDER 

 BODY:
JACK GOGUEN sits in his sunny Los Angeles backyard in blue jeans and talks with a palpable sense of detachment about his previous life as a sales and marketing executive.
 His new work, as a one-man company called J R Home Remodeling, leaves him little time to dwell on the frustrations that confounded him when he was laid off from his job in the airline catering business a month after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks sent his industry spiraling. Letting go was hard, but starting over has been a dream. 
 Meanwhile, in New York, Mary Arda, a former bond trader and media executive, has not bought herself even a new pair of socks in a year. She puts everything she has -- financially and emotionally -- into Mary's Off Jane Bakery, the shop she opened last June on Eighth Avenue near Jane Street. It has been much harder than Ms. Arda expected, but she gets goose bumps when she talks about what it means to have her own business among her neighbors in Greenwich Village. 
And in Silicon Valley, Mae-Ling Tien was laid off from her job as a programs manager for a dot-com three years ago. She moved into a new house, became pregnant with her first child and planned to stay at home.
At first Mrs. Tien, 33, was consumed by the demands of parenthood. But then something happened. Drawing on her experiences as a parent, she saw an opportunity and pounced. About six months ago, on her son Kyle's first birthday, Mrs. Tien opened Keiki Place, a play center for toddlers and their parents in Cupertino, Calif.
Like so many people who have lost their jobs in the current economic downturn, Mr. Goguen, Ms. Arda and Mrs. Tien had to rethink their lives before starting anew. They have had mixed results, but each one said that the entrepreneurial experience -- creating and operating their own small business -- has been an opportunity to learn. 
Laid off suddenly after 30 years in the business, Mr. Goguen, now 62, was certain he could be an asset to one of the companies in his industry, despite the downturn. "That I couldn't convince someone else of that was very disappointing," he said.
Mr. Goguen, whose wife is nine years younger than he is, was not ready to retire. He gave himself six months to look for a job in his field or start something new. The right job never came through. 
He asked himself, "What am I capable of doing well?" His father was a builder, and Mr. Goguen had always enjoyed the remodeling projects he did for himself. But despite the fact that he holds an M.B.A., he did not trust himself to make an objective assessment of his financial situation. He consulted a financial planner before declaring himself open for business.
Mr. Goguen spent about $20,000 on construction equipment and a sports utility vehicle for hauling it around. He contacted realtors and mortgage brokers in the community to spread the word about his work, and the floodgates opened. Next thing he knew, Mr. Goguen was bartering part of a kitchen renovation in exchange for legal services that would incorporate his new company. 
His friends were flabbergasted that Mr. Goguen would trade in his business suits and dress shoes for a life of physical labor, but he said he felt liberated. For him, the most important thing was understanding and dealing with his new reality. The well-meaning people who continued to tell him how great he had been as a sales executive were not helping.
"As quickly as you can, you must cease to dwell on the past regardless of how good you were or how much you enjoyed your work and accomplishments," he said.
Mr. Goguen said he had lost inches off his middle, spent more time outdoors and delighted in the people he has met on his jobs. And his business is doing better than he could have imagined. After one year, he is earning almost as much as he did as an executive. Although he hates the paperwork, he said it was deeply satisfying to know that his job was done according to his own standards.
"Companies say they want 100 percent customer satisfaction, but they don't mean it," Mr. Goguen said. "Profit motive always comes into play. A sole practitioner must perform every day in order to survive and grow."
FOR Ms. Arda, a Wall Street veteran, starting a bakery has been an endurance test. "It's a lot more difficult than I thought," she said. "I have a business that's open 17 to 20 hours a day, 7 days a week. Coming from the corporate world, I thought, business-wise, this is going to be a piece of cake. But this is a whole different world."
After she switched jobs, Ms. Arda worked for about a year as the director of sales and business development for the Web sites of Univision Communications, the Spanish-language media giant. She realized in mid-2001 that she would soon be laid off. Instead of asking, "Oh, my God, what am I going to do?" she started thinking, "Maybe this is my time."
Divorced and in her early 40's, Ms. Arda had dreamed of opening a bakery that reflected her Cuban upbringing. She had tried the food business before as a caterer and food stylist and, briefly, as a restaurant owner in Miami. None of the jobs worked out well. 
Starting over again "had been in the back of my mind forever and ever, but I was really afraid of taking the risk," she said.
But Ms. Arda said she felt pulled toward the bakery business. She looked for a new job halfheartedly, knowing there was very little out there. "I had been making a quarter of a million dollars and I realized that was not going to happen again in this economy," she said. 
Finally, a nephew suggested she stop talking about it and get moving. "For me it was a wake-up call," she said. Soon she started looking for a location.
Ms. Arda has poured most of her savings, about $200,000, into the business. She has traded in her $210 salon visits for bottles of $7.99 do-it-yourself hair dye. If her friends want to see her, they come to the bakery late at night with a bottle of wine. The hours are crushing, and Ms. Arda said that she was a victim of embezzlement, making her wary of delegating much responsibility to anyone else. "An employee took a lot of money from me," she said. "My books were manipulated, and now I'm doing everything myself. 
"I've been humbled a lot," she added. "I'm coming from a place where I've been able to treat myself well and now I'm struggling financially. I didn't expect it to be that drastic and it is."
If she had it to do over again, Ms. Arda said, she would look for a business partner. Even so, she said she did not regret the decision to open the bakery. "Even those moments when I'm really scattered and frustrated and handling so many aspects of this business, 95 percent of the time I'm really happy," she said. "I love my customers." 
Though she is barely breaking even, Ms. Arda is thinking about opening a second location. "Maybe I'm an optimist, but I really think I'm going to be able to make some money by running this business," she said. "Maybe I won't make a quarter of a million dollars a year, but I can make enough to be happy."
When Mae-Ling Tien opened Keiki Place (keiki means "child" in Hawaiian) in a long-empty building that her father owns, she was optimistic, too. Now she is trying to be more realistic. 
Her original business plan has made way for a more sharply focused road map for the play center, which Mrs. Tien hopes will enable her to do the thing she imagined when she dreamed up the concept: work while spending time with her son. 
"I wanted to make sure I created a business that revolved around my life, and not have my life revolving around it," she said. "But a few months into my business, I realized that's not the business I had."
Now, instead of offering several hours of "open play," when parents could drop by with their babies and pay Keiki Place $7.50 a visit, Mrs. Tien is shifting her emphasis to special events: birthday parties for $250 and classes and springtime egg hunts that can be more tightly scheduled. She is cutting back the hours her staff members work, and hopes to find a better work-family balance even while she tries to recoup the $100,000 of personal savings that she and her husband poured into fixing up the property.
Running a business "is just like parenthood," Mrs. Tien said. "You know it's a lot of work, but you don't realize how tough it is until you do it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: THEIR OWN BOSS -- Mae-Ling Tien, left, runs a play center, which allows her to spend more time with her own son, Kyle, who is next to another child, Gabriel McAdams. Mary Arda, below, opened a bakery in Greenwich Village. (Susan Spann for The New York Times); (William C. Lopez for The New York Times); NO MORE DRESS SUITS After 30 years in sales and marketing, Jack Goguen now runs a successful one-man remodeling business in Los Angeles. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BAKERIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); CHILDREN (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); BAKED GOODS (75%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); BONDS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (60%); CATERING SERVICES (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (56%) SMALL BUSINESS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BAKERIES AND BAKED PRODUCTS 

ORGANIZATION: MARY'S OFF JANE BAKERY (NYC) 

PERSON: GUGUEN, JACK; ARDA, MARY; TIEN, MAE-LING; ALEXANDER, KAREN

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



152 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: WEST COAST; 
A Swath of Enterprise Where Feng Shui Fits

BYLINE:  By BRADEN PHILLIPS 

DATELINE: CITY OF INDUSTRY, Calif. 

 BODY:
THE address of Valley Springs Industrial Center in this enterprising pocket of Los Angeles County is 168 Mason Way, which means nothing to the English-speaking world, except perhaps those named Mason, and everything to the Chinese tenants who fill all but 2 of the 14 units.
 "We came here because we wanted a new look for the company and because in Chinese the numbers on the address mean the business will continue to grow," said Barbara Choi, the founder of the Cosmobeauti Lab, a cosmetics and personal-care products manufacturer. 
 Ms. Choi was sold on the property because it was recently built and because of the address, the work of a feng shui expert who had suggested changing the numbers from 200 to 168. The expert was hired by the non-Asian owners of Valley Springs as part of its marketing strategy. Nina Kraut, who manages the property for the owner, Mason Way L.L.C., said feng shui, an ancient Chinese design system, was "a sign of the times." 
The signs of the times are everywhere in this industrial park, from the 20-foot China Shipping cargo container awaiting pickup outside to the scent of jasmine incense burning at the shrine to prosperity inside Ms. Choi's office. And then there are the feng- shui-inspired fountains, two situated at each end of the industrial park, that create some aesthetic interest in what is otherwise a compound of identical warehouselike buildings.
Valley Springs Industrial Center reflects a growing number and diversity of small businesses owned by Asians, not only in the City of Industry, located 25 miles east of downtown Los Angeles, but in the region of the San Gabriel Valley as a whole. With the Cosmobeauti Lab, the park has computer, cellphone and automotive-parts distributors, a consumer electronics company, shipping and warehousing businesses, a food importer and a manufacturer of spray booths -- enclosed units used by auto-body shops for painting cars.
The City of Industry is a 13-mile stretch of enterprise that is home to 2,200 companies, most of them small, of which 550 are Chinese and 135 Hispanic. Last year, of the 288 new businesses that opened here, 64 percent were Chinese. Many of these newcomers are from Shanghai, or are ethnic Chinese from Hong Kong, Vietnam and Myanmar. According to the most recent census in 2000, the San Gabriel Valley has the largest concentration of Chinese in the country, at least a half million in a population of 1.8 million.
The trend has put the City of Industry on a must-see list for the Chinese government, which has been sending two to three trade delegations a month for the last four years to meet with the chamber of commerce, although the recent threat of the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, epidemic has cut back on that pace.
Many of the current entrepreneurs are bringing capital and the skill to go with it, starting businesses that go beyond the mom-and-pop enterprises of first-generation immigrants. Some continued the businesses they had run in their former country; others took up the role traditionally played by immigrants, filling niches.
Among those who are trying to develop such a market is C. I. Tsui, who came here from Hong Kong to start USA Spec, which imports CD changers and satellite radio receivers for automobiles. In Hong Kong, Mr. Tsui sold other kinds of consumer electronics.
"We decided we wanted to do business here, so we had to come up with a product specifically for this market," he said.
THANKS mostly to this Chinese influx, the San Gabriel Valley is becoming a critical economic engine in the region, winning some of the attention that has always gone to better-known San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles County.
"These people are not only running the retail facilities but building the buildings, the outlets, the malls," said Vance Baugham, the San Gabriel Valley regional manager for the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. "We probably have more assembly of computer-related equipment here than any place else in the world, and the Chinese community is a large participant in that."
The City of Industry is basically one large industrial park -- all of its 14 square miles are zoned for industrial and retail use. Valley Springs is one of eight self-contained developments in the city that fit the traditional description of such a park. The city eliminated residential zoning in 1957, but allowed people living there to stay.
Today the population has shrunk to fewer than 700. With easy access to highways and two rail lines, the area is convenient for shipping and receiving goods -- one reason so many Chinese businesses are moving here.
Another factor in its favor is cultural. Jane Gao, the office manager at Zhongda Group USA, the marketing and distribution arm of the China-based manufacturer of spray booths, said the company's first choice was the City of Industry because of the tenant mix and proximity to Chinese residential areas.
"The company was going to buy a warehouse in Riverside, but it's not convenient," she said. "Our first choice is a Chinese area. We feel more comfortable here."
Generally, however, the companies based here tend to keep to themselves, suggesting that the feeling of community is more psychological than anything else. Mr. Tsui of USA Spec said he did not socialize more frequently among Chinese tenants than he did in the previous industrial park, where he was the only Chinese tenant.
"Everybody is too busy," he said.
Given the warehouse atmosphere and the lack of amenities nearby, the closest thing to a meeting place is the stack of mailboxes at the park's entrance, adding a somewhat rural touch to daily life.
"When people get their mail they might bump into each other and talk," Mr. Tsui said.
Still, he readily let his neighbor, Raidtronics, a computer hardware distributor, use space in his warehouse. And Ms. Choi of Cosmobeauti Labs, which sells to other businesses, opens her doors to park neighbors who are looking for cosmetics or personal-care products.
But this is the City of Industry, so the real action is inside.
An average day at Cosmobeauti Labs revealed a range of activity: the resident chemist was trying to create a reasonable match for an existing whitening cream; another employee was mixing hair gel to fill a 400-pound vat; a third worker was squirting antiwrinkle cream into jars; and three more were applying labels to small containers of a lubricating gel.
Born in China, Ms. Choi has been in the United States for 28 years and has a bachelor's degree in marketing. She said her company made as many as 50 different products in a month, some her own and others for clients. At the moment, 60 percent of her business is in the United States and the rest is in Asia.
"Even when I'm resting or eating with my kids or talking on the phone with my friends, I am always thinking of new products," she said.
At Zhongda, which makes its spray booths in Yancheng, China, and ships them to 60 countries, the staff has its mind set on overcoming obstacles in the American market. After five years, sales are starting to improve.
"It's very hard for Chinese to develop this business here," said Jack Ge, the company's general sales manager. "If it's not high technology, they think it's a toy. But gradually people are accepting that such things are made in China and are good quality. We want to make Zhongda a name brand."
Mr. Tsui of USA Spec said his business was only fair these days. "We will do better when the overall economy gets better," he said.
Meanwhile, Ms. Choi's shrine burns bright. Like many of the Chinese business owners at this park, all of whom are now leasing, she wants to own her own building someday. "Every day we burn incense for the gods to look after us and make us prosper," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SIGNS OF PROSPERITY -- A feng-shui-inspired fountain, above left, at the Valley Springs Industrial Center in City of Industry in Los Angeles County, where most of the tenants are of Chinese descent. These include Amy Liu, top left, and Jane Gao, and Barbara Choi, right. (Photographs by Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times) Map of California highlighting City of Industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); TRENDS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); MARINE SHIPPING (71%); COSMETICS (70%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (64%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (61%); SARS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%) SMALL BUSINESS; CHINESE-AMERICANS; FENG SHUI 

PERSON: PHILLIPS, BRADEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); MYANMAR (79%) CITY OF INDUSTRY (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



153 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Small Business; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: INSURANCE; 
Finding Ways to Afford the Safety Net

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
FOR years, the hassle of dealing with taxes has been the No. 1 problem for small businesses. But late last year the rising cost of insurance edged ahead as the biggest headache, ranked in national surveys before taxes, the sluggish economy and poor sales.
 Prices for insurance on offices, factories, stores, cars and workers' compensation have jumped sharply in the last several years, and the cost of health insurance has been rising relentlessly even longer. Now there is a new coverage to consider: insurance against terrorist attacks. 
 As a result, small-business owners are combing through their policies, looking for coverages that can be cut or eliminated to help lower costs. 
For years, prices were relatively stable, and reviewing coverages did not seem worth the trouble. But Dale Huffman, an Allstate agent in Orange, Calif., near Los Angeles, says that when he talks with small-business owners now, "They're always asking, 'How can you save me money?' "
It turns out there are several ways insurance costs can either be cut or -- more likely -- kept from rising drastically.
One frequently mentioned solution is to cut overall property coverage. But slicing off, say, 20 percent of the coverage on a $300,000 building in suburban New York would save less than $500 in premiums and leave an owner with a shortfall of $60,000 in case of a disastrous fire. Cutting coverage for liability lawsuits is not recommended either, because the added risk far outweighs the benefits. In some packages, for example, in which $2 million in liability coverage is standard, giving up $1 million in coverage saves only about $150 in premiums.
Insurance companies generally refuse to underinsure. A far better tactic, experts say, is to raise the deductible, thus making it possible to reduce premiums up to 30 percent in exchange for paying the first $10,000 in losses. 
Owners of small businesses can also cut costs by removing themselves from their company's workers' compensation coverage. The coverage is not mandatory for them, as it is for employees. If they are hurt, owners can pay themselves. Or they can substitute disability coverage, which is usually more costly but provides higher payments when an injury or death occurs. And some owners have been shifting more of the cost of health insurance to their employees, as well as reducing benefits. 
In a survey of small businesses, the National Federation of Independent Business, an advocacy group in Washington, found that about 34 percent of respondents increased the share their employees pay for health insurance; 30 percent increased their deductible amounts on all kinds of insurance; and 17 percent reduced or dropped some coverage on all kinds of insurance.
"The important thing is to strike the right balance," said Dick McKenna, an Allstate agent in Roslyn Heights, N.Y. "You're courting disaster if you take a bigger deductible than you can comfortably handle. And for big losses you want to be fully covered."
Small businesses are not regarded as prime targets for terrorists. In a survey by the Hartford Financial Services Group, 42 percent of respondents said they were more concerned about natural disasters like hurricanes and tornadoes; and 28 percent ranked terrorism as a main worry. But because the risk is slight, prices for terrorism coverage for small businesses are low, and many are buying it. In some cases, terrorism insurance can add as little as $50 to a small business's insurance bill, said Mike Hughes, a senior vice president in charge of coverage for small businesses at Safeco, the Seattle-based insurer.
Another way to lower premiums is through safety programs. In Los Angeles, Uni World Tensuke, a seafood company that is a unit of True World Foods of San Francisco, began paying bonuses to the drivers of its 27 trucks and cars for maintaining clean records. At the same time, it doubled its deductible to $1,000 and stopped filing claims for most damage under $2,000. Claims have fallen sharply, said MacKay Holmes, a senior manager at True World, and premiums for the fleet have dropped by roughly two-thirds, to about $40,000 a year.
Jerry Ghinelli, the owner of Total Media, a video and audiotape distributor in South Hackensack, N.J., has not been able to keep his premiums with the Hartford from rising. They have jumped 50 percent in three years to about $27,000 a year. But he figured they would be even higher if he did not pay so much attention to safety. 
Mr. Ghinelli said he paid his driver a monthly bonus for avoiding accidents and tickets. In the company's building, he has nonskid mats in the hallways, deadbolts on the doors, security cameras and an alarm system that sends a signal to his personal beeper. He regularly gets his fire extinguishers and lighted exit signs checked. In 13 years he has filed one claim -- for about $5,000 for two fake checks. 
"I'd rather not have to call my agent and say, 'Alan, I have a problem,' " Mr. Ghinelli said. "If I had a lot of claims, the premiums would go up more and they may drop you."
A business owner can often get away with underinsuring because insurance companies do not inspect every property. But the more an owner shaves off the top of the coverage, the greater the financial danger. In most states, if the insurance coverage falls below 80 percent of the value of the property, insurers are allowed to cut back proportionately on what they pay in claims. If a building is insured for $150,000, but its real value turns out to be $300,000, the insurer is required to pay only 50 percent of any claim. After discovering this kind of deception, Mr. McKenna said, the insurer will be unlikely to renew.
These days, even insuring for the full value can be a risk. Until a few years ago, a standard property policy paid for the replacement of a shop or a factory. If a shop was insured for, say, $300,000, and the rebuilding cost was $360,000, the insurance company would simply cover the cost. But as losses rose, insurers cut back. 
Now, if the owner of a photography shop in a brick building in, say, Manhassett, N.Y., bought $300,000 in coverage from Allstate for a premium of roughly $6,700, the payback in a total loss would be $300,000. If the reconstruction cost more, the owner would have to pay the difference. 
But for an extra $100 per $100,000 of coverage, or $300 for the photo shop, the money available for replacement would rise 25 percent to $375,000. On these policies, the basic insured amount automatically rises annually to match inflation in construction costs. The premium also rises.
Some of the steepest price increases have been for coverage of building contractors. Many insurers have dropped the coverage, saying they lose money on it. Those who still provide it have raised their prices. Big contractors, faced with higher insurance costs, have increased their deductible amounts and begun demanding higher coverages of subcontractors working for them. 
John Gregory, the president of Summit Tile and Marble, a company in Woodinville, Wash., with 10 employees, including Mr. Gregory and two other owners, said his company was forced to double its liability to $2 million. His insurance bill with Safeco jumped 40 percent to $10,000 this year, he said, even though he cut the company's auto insurance "to the bare minimum."
The three owners are considering dropping workers' compensation coverage for themselves. When they started 14 years ago, they went without that insurance, but Glenn Cooper, one partner, said they were hesitant to drop it. 
"When you start out," he said, "you have only a wife and maybe a kid. Now when you have a wife and maybe two or three kids, you've got a lot more responsibility. Hence, you need to take less risk. We're looking for some kind of alternative, something that would be less expensive."
Part of the reason insurance is such a concern for small businesses is that "you've got to have it," said William J. Dennis Jr., a senior research fellow at the National Federation of Independent Business Education Foundation.
"The alternative is to go bare," he said. "If you've got any kind of borrowed money, you can't do that because of the lenders. And if you have any kind of assets, you don't want to do that. Because of the economic situation, small businesses can't raise prices. So they end up eating the increased costs. All the alternatives are bad."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matt Collins) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION DISABILITY (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (73%); LITIGATION (64%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) LABOR; FRINGE BENEFITS; SMALL BUSINESS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (91%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%)

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



154 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Special Registration 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Pakistani, 18, Wins Fight Against Order to Leave U.S." (news article, April 30): 
 Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain, a Queens high school student, is not the only registrant for whom the new policy of special registration makes "no sense," to use the characterization by Representative Gary L. Ackerman. 
At the Arab-American Family Support Center, we have seen many equally heart-rending cases. We have worked with many people for whom any other country would be a foreign land: They have grown up here, created roots here, and their hard work is contributing to the American economy. 
While its goal of catching terrorists is just, special registration has become a blunt instrument overturning the lives of scores of well-meaning individuals and their families. 
The many anonymous people whom we and others try to assist may likely not share the same lucky fate as Mr. Hussain.

JOHANNA HABIB
Brooklyn, May 1, 2003

The writer is staff attorney, Arab-American Family Support Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY SERVICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); IMMIGRATION (69%); TERRORISM (67%) TERRORISM; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

ORGANIZATION: ARAB-AMERICAN FAMILY SUPPORT CENTER 

PERSON: GARY L ACKERMAN (56%) HABIB, JOHANNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



155 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: THE ECONOMY; 
A Few Bright Spots, and Lots of Hanging On and Hunkering Down

BYLINE:  By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
HARRY DUNCAN is the president of a mortgage banking company in Sacramento. John Chua is the president of a company, also in Sacramento, that develops Web sites for the Internet. Iris Shokoff has a direct marketing media buying agency in New York. And Carolyn Brinkmeyer is a travel agent in Centennial, Colo.
 All are entrepreneurs. With fewer than 500 employees each, they operate companies that are considered small businesses, insofar as that term is defined by the United States Small Business Administration. 
 How are they doing? For Mr. Duncan, business is better than ever. Mr. Chua has chopped his work force by a quarter, but is hanging on. Ms. Shokoff is doing all right, as other companies' troubles produce bargains for her customers. Ms. Brinkmeyer is going out of business. With the exception of Mr. Duncan, every company is doing its best to cut costs and wait for the economy to rebound.
The state of small business, in other words, depends on the business. 
Given the sour economy, the health of a business nowadays is "all about sector and location," said William C. Dunkelberg, the chief economist of the National Federation of Independent Business, an advocacy group in Washington.
Mr. Dunkelberg, who conducts a monthly survey of small-business owners, said that lately there was a lot of pessimism among the companies polled. But he does not ascribe that to the companies' sizes, he said; in difficult times, smaller enterprises "suffer through the same kinds of problems as big businesses that are in the same field."
On the other hand, most small businesses are also service companies. These days, such companies are generally having an easier time than those in manufacturing, the sector that has been hardest hit in the downturn, Mr. Dunkelberg said.
Even in the service sector, however, the health of a business is shaped by broader economic forces, and what Mr. Dunkelberg calls the "subset of services" that a firm provides. 
In retail, store margins are in general being squeezed by fierce price competition. But some retailers are being hit harder than others, like merchants at airports, who are among those most drastically affected, said Randall S. Eisenberg, the chairman of the Turnaround Management Association, a trade group of bankruptcy professionals, and a senior managing director with FTI Consulting in New York. That is not just because of lower prices, he said, but because of another outside force: the precipitous drop in air travel.
Meanwhile, although a poor economy means that merger and acquisition lawyers may be in a slump, it also means that bankruptcy lawyers are doing quite well, said Leonard Z. Eppel, a turnaround specialist at Financial Resource Associates in Cincinnati. So are businesses that deal with residential real estate.
TAKE Vitek Mortgage Group, the company in Sacramento founded by Harry Duncan and a friend 16 years ago. Nowadays, Vitek's business is better than ever. It wrote $730 million worth of mortgages last year, according to Mr. Duncan, and grew from 75 employees to 110. This year, "we had the best first quarter ever," he said, even though he had been afraid that interest rates might rise and that the company's volume would go down.
"It just hasn't happened," he said.
For Carolyn Brinkmeyer, the travel agent in Colorado, the opposite is true. Although she concedes that hers has always been a tough industry, it has gotten infinitely worse during the five years she has operated her business, Serenity Travel. Between the rise of direct ticket sales by airlines, online ticket services and the dropoff in travel, "it felt like a constant battle," Ms. Brinkmeyer said. "When I calculated how many hours I was working versus what I was making, I thought I needed my head examined."
So, like thousands of other travel agents nationwide, she has given up. Earlier this year, she closed her business and is now only handling existing bookings.
Iris Shokoff's company, Iris Shokoff Associates, offers direct market media services to other businesses. Her customers include book and record clubs, a gourmet food business and Guthy-Renker, a telemarketer. Though "things are not necessarily fabulous," Ms. Shokoff said, she is predicting "a good year."
Her company negotiates for newspaper and magazine space and radio and television time for clients' advertisements, and it has benefited from a softness in media markets, especially among print outlets. "We can cut deals," she said. "Costs are less now than they were in the dot-com era, when prices were outrageous." 
But although the Internet bust has been advantageous to Ms. Shokoff, it has not done much for John Chua, the president of Digital Gear, a Web site development company. Most of Digital Gear's customers are "big to medium-size companies that are having challenges," Mr. Chua said. Because the main issue for these companies is cash flow, Mr. Chua said that he also had to become more flexible about pricing and payment.
The company, which began feeling the effects of the dot-com meltdown in 2001, has shrunk from about 20 full-time employees to 15, and it no longer uses expensive independent contractors. Instead, Mr. Chua said, he often hires temporary workers, who can be hired for less.
"We are very careful to watch expenses," he said.
If there is one common feature, after size, that most small businesses share today, it is a bunker mentality. If growth was the mantra in the 90's, prudence and restraint are the watchwords now.
"Small firms have to be more responsive and more nimble than ever," said Barbara Beck, the executive vice president of United States and Canadian operations for Manpower, the temporary-employment company. Her company provides interim staffing to numerous small businesses, Mr. Chua's among them.
Manpower also conducts a quarterly employment outlook survey, polling thousands of companies, big and small. Its most recent report indicated that in 8 of 10 categories, hiring intentions were softer for the current quarter than they were three months earlier.
Small companies, Ms. Beck said, are assessing their hiring needs more carefully than ever before, and that is unlikely to change soon.
That is a conclusion that dovetails with the results of small business surveys recently conducted by Mr. Dunkelberg. And it sounds pretty accurate to small-company owners like Mr. Chua.
"My feeling is that we will be all right in the end," Mr. Chua said. "We just need to hunker down for the next couple of years."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); WEB SITES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); RETAILERS (66%); LAWYERS (63%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: FTI CONSULTING INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (55%)

TICKER: FCN (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



156 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: VENTURE CAPITAL; 
Money for Start-Ups: Tight, Getting Tighter

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif. 

 BODY:
IN March 2000, it took only 10 days for Thomas E. Rowley, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur for more than two decades, to raise $27 million for Counterpane Internet Security, his eighth start-up company. Mr. Rowley's next round of financing was completed in January 2003 -- after eight months and 102 pitches that raised $20 million. 
 And most of his fellow entrepreneurs would consider him lucky. 
 "This is an awful time for companies looking to recapitalize," Mr. Rowley said. 
It is not that the boom times, when venture capitalists often avoided performing due diligence on companies in their rush to close deals, are gone. And it is not that entrepreneurs must once again show that they have proven business models, strong customer prospects and experienced management teams. That, after all, was how venture capital always worked, until the bubble. The big problem for new companies now is that even when they do everything right, there is precious little money to win.
The amount of money that venture capitalists have sunk into privately held technology companies has declined every quarter since the start of 2000, according to the MoneyTree survey, a study of venture capital investment activity compiled by PricewaterhouseCoopers, Venture Economics and the National Venture Capital Association. The survey's figures for the most recent quarter, ending March 31, had the smallest number of venture capital deals, 623, since the summer quarter of 1996. 
Moreover, there has been one public stock offering for a venture capital-backed company since January, down from 262 for 2000, the MoneyTree survey reported.
Last August, Jonathan Abrams, a 33-year-old software engineer, began a start-up business, Friendster, an online dating and networking service. He said that he was "bootstrapping" the business, running it from his apartment in Sunnyvale, Calif. "I'm not even bothering to schmooze with venture capitalists right now," Mr. Abrams said.
Mr. Abrams is more fortunate than many technology entrepreneurs. He said that he was able to raise some money -- an amount he only said was less than $500,000 -- from friends and former colleagues. 
Raising capital from "angels," wealthy individuals who invest in start-up companies, has long been an avenue for brand-new technology businesses, but the competition for this financing has become tougher. Ian Sobieski, who coordinates the activities of one such Silicon Valley network, the Band of Angels, said that the group had always heard pitches from entrepreneurs who were turning an idea into a company. Lately, however, he said they were seeing more venture-backed technology businesses that have been around for a few years and need another round of financing, but cannot raise the full sum from venture capitalists. 
Many young companies, unable to raise money from angels or venture capitalists, are financing their dreams themselves. Their owners are taking the maximum on their credit cards, cashing out I.R.A.'s and acquiring second mortgages. A multimedia software designer at one Bay Area business, who asked not to be identified, was helping to support his two partners and paying for the lawyer to patent their work by spending all his time composing music for electronic games. 
In a big shift, many entrepreneurs here are turning to the government as a financing option. Workshops on obtaining government grants and contracts have become as common in Silicon Valley in 2003 as they were rare during the boom.
For those who find venture capital financing, the investments are smaller, and the venture capitalists expect that money to last years, not months.
Matt Glickman, the chief executive and a co-founder of Merced Systems in Redwood City, Calif., raised a first round of $3.5 million in venture capital financing at the end of 2001. As part of the pitch for the company, which sells software to monitor call centers, Mr. Glickman said he presented testimonials from two customers, including a division of the General Electric Company.
Since raising the money, Merced Systems has gone 17 months without seeking another round, quickly increasing its sales while pinching every penny. That was different a few years ago, when Mr. Glickman was running an online retailer, BabyCenter .com, which is now a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson. During the late 90's, BabyCenter raised new rounds of venture capital every nine months. "Merced Systems has to be focused on reaching sustainability," he said. 
There are still a few instances of the go-for-broke mentality. WildBlue, a communications company in Greenwood Village, Colo., which is trying to develop a system to deliver wireless broadband access to the Internet through new satellite technology, closed a $156 million round of financing last month. The deal included new investors, Intelsat and the National Rural Telecommunications Cooperative, in addition to previous investors -- Liberty Media Corporation and Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers, the Silicon Valley venture capital firm. 
Although WildBlue raised more than $300 million before 2001, it had run out of cash one year later and suspended the development of its network. "We then spent all of our time tryingto raise money," said Thomas Moore, WildBlue's chief executive.
The company also had to wait for rivals to die. "It took two years to let that play through," said Russell Siegelman, a partner at Kleiner, Perkins who sits on WildBlue's board of directors. 
David Cowan, a partner at Bessemer Venture Partners in Menlo Park, Calif., said that in addition to new wireless technologies, he saw only a few other niches still attracting venture capital. One is computer network security, he said, which is why he invested in Mr. Rowley's company, Counterpane. Counterpane sells systems to monitor computer networks of businesses. 
But Mr. Cowan, who has invested in Counterpane's previous rounds of financing and is on its board, also took into account how Mr. Rowley and others on the company's executive team managed start-ups through hard economic times. "The prevailing metric now is capital efficiency," Mr. Cowan said. 
Howard Clowes, a lawyer at Gray Cary who handles venture capital deals, said he told first-time entrepreneurs not to bother venture capitalists until they hooked up with an experienced manager. 
Mr. Rowley said that such demands are a sign that the venture capital business was returning to normal. As a result, Counterpane was given a lower market value in its last round, he said, declining to specify the amount. Although that was painful to accept, he added that it was better than the alternative: no money at all.

GRAPHIC: Photo: MORE FINANCING, PLEASE -- Executives of WildBlue, a communications business in Colorado, from left: Thomas Moore, Brad Greenwald, David Brown, Erwin Hudson and Paul Froelich. (Steve Peterson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (94%); STARTUPS (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (89%); EQUITY FINANCING (89%); FINANCING ROUNDS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (64%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SMALL BUSINESS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; VENTURE CAPITAL; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: BAND OF ANGELS LLC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



157 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: The Enigmatic Empire of the Vitamin King of Mexico 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: GUADALAJARA, Mexico 

 BODY:
As a child, Jorge Vergara Madrigal used to hang around the sets of the low-budget action films his uncle produced, featuring the Mexican classic wrestler superhero, El Santo. Mr. Vergara and his cousins helped with special effects, operating cars without drivers and concocting spider webs from glue. 
 To outsiders, there can be a similar blue-smoke-and-mirrors quality to Mr. Vergara's business empire -- full of bold coups and flashes, but highly unorthodox and hard to weigh. 
 At its center is Omnilife, which sells nutritional supplements through direct marketing in Latin America, Spain and the United States. The company is privately held and says little publicly about its finances, but it has clearly given Mr. Vergara ample resources for his forays into other fields. Film production, for instance: his production company's first feature, "Y Tu Mama Tambien," became an art house hit in 2002 and was nominated for a screenwriting Oscar. 
Then there was the $100 million he spent on a hostile takeover of one of Mexico's most popular soccer teams last November. And the huge development project that he hopes will draw millions of visitors each year to Guadalajara, a sprawling, leafy city that ranks as Mexico's second largest: Mr. Vergara has a dozen of the world's leading architects at work on the plans.
He first attracted attention in world financial circles when he opened talks to buy the British retail chain, the Body Shop. The discussions ended without a deal. 
Throughout his rise, Mr. Vergara, 48, has challenged Mexico's clubby business culture, centered in Mexico City and in the industrial area around Monterrey. Many of Mexico's leading executives run venerable companies built by their fathers and grandfathers and travel in narrow circles of wealth and privilege. Mr. Vergara, on the other hand, prefers the more bohemian company of designers and film directors, and mingles happily with his working-class sales representatives, firing them up with new-age self-help philosophy.
"I like to base myself on what you would call the principle of plenty," Mr. Vergara said in a lengthy interview in his glass-walled office. "If you generate plenty around you, and you share it, then you create a cycle of plenty, and money just follows you."
Omnilife sells its products through 1.2 million representatives in a multilevel marketing operation organized along lines similar to those of Herbalife or Amway. Of the $800 million of sales the company recorded in 2002, Mr. Vergara said that about two-thirds of total revenue was paid to sales representatives. 
"We reinvest 100 percent. That is why the numbers grow geometrically," Mr. Vergara said. 
Because it is not public, the company does not release any profit figures, nor does it publish audited financial statements. Mr. Vergara sees no need to do so. "I'm not interested if people believe me or not or if they understand me or not," he said.
At daylong rallies for the sales force, Mr. Vergara often speaks with evangelical fervor for hours, stopping only to call on representatives in the audience to stand up and give testimonials of new health and wealth. And Omnilife appears to reward those who get with the program: Feliciano Mendoza, who assembled a network of 150 part-time workers to sell for him in Mexico City, said he now makes $2,000 a month largely from commissions on their sales, a comfortable middle-class income in Mexico.
Mr. Vergara, who did not attend college, was himself a sales representative for Herbalife, the Inglewood, Calif., maker of nutritional supplements, before founding Omnilife with $10,000 in 1991. 
He describes his business mission in terms much grander than merely selling vitamins to the masses. "We integrate health, economic development and personal development," he said. "We think that success comes when you understand that money is a tool, and you have to prepare yourself personally to grow."
To those who have crossed business swords with him, Mr. Vergara's quick fortune and sweeping ambitions are cause for suspicion. "I think he is a shady man, and he does business in a shady way," said Francisco Cardenas, the former president of Chivas, the Guadalajara soccer team that Mr. Vergara bought.
Uncharacteristically for Mexico, where business deals are often struck with a handshake by old school friends, Mr. Vergara acquired Chivas out from under Mr. Cardenas by persuading about 150 of the 196 shareholders in the team, then a financially troubled nonprofit company, to sell to him. Mr. Cardenas is challenging the sale in court.
Mr. Vergara carries his self-improvement theme to all his projects, including his film production company, Anhelo Productions, which he founded with the Mexican director Alfonso Cuaron. Mr. Cuaron, who is directing the third "Harry Potter" film, was the director and screenwriter of "Y Tu Mama Tambien."
"Film is a great medium where we can make movies that help people to think, question and change," Mr. Vergara said. Made on a shoestring, "Y Tu Mama Tambien" has taken in $30 million.
"I reinvest and generate money for the next movie or for three movies, and those three will generate more, and so it multiplies, just like multilevel sales," he said. Anhelo and its Los Angeles offshoot, Monsoon Entertainment, have plans for 18 films. 
Mr. Vergara inspires strong loyalty in his staff and his circle. "He is one of those visionary people who is always three steps ahead," said Enrique Norten, a Mexico City architect who has played a networking role in Mr. Vergara's Guadalajara development project, connecting him with other architects.
Known as the JVC Culture, Convention and Business Center, the $670 million complex is intended to include a shopping mall, a university, a hotel, a theater, a children's museum and an art museum. 
Mr. Norten, who designed the project's convention center, helped line up names like Daniel Libeskind, Philip Johnson, and Jean Nouvel to handle other elements. 
"If I surround people with 11 architectonically balanced buildings of impressive beauty, then people will be attracted to come," Mr. Vergara said.
So far, though, the project consists of little more than a sheaf of drawings and an empty field. Mr. Vergara hopes to break ground by October, but there are still permits to obtain and parcels of land to acquire.
And it is not entirely clear where Mr. Vergara will get the financing. Asked about the arrangements, he said, "The money is very simple -- we put one part ourselves and the other part we get from selling the marketing rights." He gave no details. 
Mr. Vergara's grand plans do not always bear fruit. An example was his interest in Body Shop. One person briefed on the situation said Mr. Vergara proved unable to raise the capital for a bid. 
But Mr. Vergara said that financing was not the problem; he had $450 million in credit available at two banks. Rather, he said, he called off the bid when he concluded that Body Shop did not live up to its progressive image and its stated environmental and social ideals. 
"I don't make decisions based on numbers," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jorge Vergara Madrigal, whose businesses include vitamins, films and a soccer team, spoke at a motivational meeting in Guadalajara in February. (Marco Aurelio Vargas for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); FOOD SUPPLEMENT STORES (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); CORPORATE CULTURE (76%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); TAKEOVERS (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); NUTRITION (70%); DIRECT MARKETING (70%); AUDITS (60%); SOCCER (52%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; FOOD AND COOKING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

ORGANIZATION: OMNILIFE 

PERSON: MADRIGAL, JORGE VERGARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



158 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Italian Investor Is in Talks for Vespa Motor Scooters 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS, May 5 

 BODY:
The Italian investor Roberto Colaninno said today that he was making a bid for the unprofitable company that makes the Vespa, the perky little Italian motor scooter. But he tried to dispel speculation that his bid might be the opening move in a plan to consolidate the whole Italian two-wheel-vehicle industry. 
 Mr. Colaninno, 59, has had a considerable cash pile since an investor group led by Pirelli, the tire and cable maker, bought control of Telecom Italia from him in 2001. He had startled European markets two years earlier with his successful $30 billion hostile takeover of Telecom Italia, the country's dominant phone company. 
 Mr. Colaninno made headlines earlier this year by putting around the word that he might be interested in bidding for control of the Fiat industrial group. But the bid was spurned by the Agnelli family, which controls Fiat, leaving Mr. Colaninno to look for opportunities further afield. 
Mr. Colaninno's investment company, Immsi, informed the Italian stock exchange in Milan today that it was in talks to acquire a controlling stake in Piaggio, the company that makes the Vespa scooter. Piaggio is now controlled by Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Private Equity, a unit of Deutsche Bank, which bought an 86 percent stake in 1999 for $753 million. At the same time, the Texas Pacific Group of Fort Worth acquired 10 percent of Piaggio. The remainder of Piaggio is now held by a Spanish equity fund, Mercapital-Rabasa. 
Details of Mr. Colaninno's bid today were not disclosed.
But at a meeting of Immsi shareholders, Mr. Colaninno, who is being advised by Lehman Brothers, said he hoped to conclude the deal by June, and that it would probably be achieved by having Piaggio issue new shares expressly for Immsi.
Italian newspapers have speculated that Mr. Colaninno's long-range design is to unite several manufacturers of two-wheel vehicles, perhaps including Ducati and Agusta, two domestic rivals.
In April, Texas Pacific, which controls Ducati, said in a statement that no talks were under way for its sale. An executive close to Texas Pacific said today that nothing had changed and that Mr. Colaninno denied he had such plans.
Christopher Spira, a Ducati spokesman in Bologna, said, "We are basically finding out in the newspapers what Colaninno is planning." 
Texas Pacific took control of Ducati Motor Holding, the icon of Italian motorcycle making, in 1996 and brought in new management to overhaul the company, modernize its factories and rebuild its line of powerful motorcycles. 
Piaggio bought a 20 percent stake in Agusta, which makes Husqvarna motorcycles, in 2001. In the late 1990's, the market for two-wheel vehicles was booming, most notably in Europe, and both Ducati and Piaggio thrived, though with very different products. But the downturn in the industry since 2001 has been harsh. 
Piaggio, to be sure, has had some successes. Its entry into the United States market, never known for embracing scooters like the Vespa, has been relatively fruitful.
Last year, Piaggio sold 5,000 Vespas in America, and it hopes for 7,000 this year. 
But over all, the company has flagged. Global sales of Piaggio's scooters contracted by 10 percent in 2002, to 360,000 units. Revenue slipped just 4 percent, to 950 million euros ($1.1 billion), in part because of a shift to higher-priced scooters like Piaggio's new Granturismo, a reproduction of the original Vespa. 
Stiff competition from Japanese rivals like Honda and Yamaha and the high cost of servicing its heavy debts have pushed Piaggio into the red. The company has not released profit and loss figures for recent years, but Mr. Colaninno said Piaggio had been unprofitable in both 2001 and 2002. 
Texas Pacific had consolidation in mind in 1999 when it bid for all of Piaggio. The plan then was to create a group covering the whole range of two-wheel motorized vehicles from tiny 50-cc Vespa scooters to Ducati's huge motorbikes. 
Piaggio, which is based in Pontedera, Italy, near Pisa, made aircraft engines until 1946, when it introduced the Vespa (the name means wasp) as an economical way for Italians to get around in a country just emerging from wartime destruction and fuel shortages.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Vespa has been a fixture of the streets since the late 1940's. (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)(pg. W1); Roberto Colaninno said he hoped to conclude a deal by June. (Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); TIRE MFG (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%) AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: TPG CAPITAL LP (69%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); FIAT INDUSTRIAL SPA (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); HUSQVARNA AB (51%); DUCATI MOTOR HOLDING SPA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PIAGGIO 

TICKER: TIT (BIT) (57%); TI (NYSE) (57%); FI (BIT) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); HUSQ.B (STO) (51%); HUSQ.A (STO) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3546 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOLS (51%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (51%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: COLANINNO, ROBERTO 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (55%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



159 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND -- Fort Lauderdale; 
Booming Economy With a Resort Feel

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is home to a growing number of small businesses and technology start-ups and is a popular center for business conferences. Shipping and tourism are flourishing, and the real estate market, driven in part by foreign investment in high-end coastal property, is booming.
 Yet for all the economic activity, the city retains its old seaside resort feel. Downtown, Las Olas Boulevard stirs early in the morning when sprinklers snap on to mist the flowers and shrubs. A little before 8 a.m. in the GRAN FORNO bakery (954-467-2244), workers in white T-shirts shovel flour-dusted loaves of dough into ovens by the window. Not far away, chairs scrape the sidewalk under the tricolor awnings of LE CAFE DE PARIS as waiters prepare for the brunch crowd. 
 At the FLORIDIAN DINER, known to patrons as the Flo, the regulars drift in, some to grab a bite and trade gossip before heading off to the courthouse or the offices nearby, others to cap off a night of partying before heading home to bed. Hunched over a table up front, while a technician checks the microphones, a local talk-radio host, Norm Kent, glances over some notes to get ready for the show he broadcasts every weekday morning from 8 to 9. "Everybody has breakfast here," said Mr. Kent, a local lawyer and publisher of a gay and lesbian newspaper. "I'm never going back to the studio."

AIRPORT
FORT LAUDERDALE-HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT was once derided as a glorified bus station, but after extensive renovations it is a spacious airport with modern concourses lined with shops. There are shuttle buses downtown and to the beach. The taxi fare downtown is about $15.

HOTELS
Built in the 1930's as a small-town resort to house people for deep-sea fishing excursions, the RIVERSIDE HOTEL (954-467-0671, $150 to $600) has 217 rooms and suites, many in a new tower. Popular for business conferences, it has a private wine room for corporate dinners, two restaurants, one of which spills out into a sidewalk cafe, and a busy piano bar. "The Flo is the heart of Las Olas in the morning, and the Riverside is at night," Mr. Kent said.
You can walk eastward on Las Olas to trendy Ocean Boulevard, which is Fort Lauderdale's version of Miami's South Beach, without the haughty attitude and price gouging. Joggers and in-line skaters have miles of paths to use by the ocean. Among dozens of beach-area hotels are the PIER POINTE RESORT (954-776-5121, $60 to $169), set back amid tropical gardens.
The HYATT REGENCY PIER 66 (954-525-6666, $185 to $279) sits beside a yacht marina on a causeway, has 380 rooms and 8 suites amid 22 acres of gardens and cascading fountains. There is a full-service spa and aquatic center, as well as 22,000 square feet of corporate meeting space.

RESTAURANTS
Near the airport, ANTHONY'S RUNWAY 84 (954-467-8484, $160 for dinner for two with wine and tip) "is where you take somebody who's in town from New York or L.A.," said Sam Velez, the fitness director of the Firm, a fitness club.
Mr. Kent, the radio talk-show host, swears by the Floridian for breakfast and lunch (954-463-4041, $10 to $12 a person), though Las Olas is lined with enticing bistros. "More business deals are consummated at the Floridian over breakfast or lunch than in any law office in town," he said. For dinner, he recommends JACKSON'S STEAKHOUSE (954-522-4450, $110) or either of the two restaurants at the RIVERSIDE HOTEL (954-467-0671) -- the GRILL ROOM ($100), which features steaks and chops, or INDIGO ($75), with its Indonesian-inspired cuisine. Locals also like the BLACK ORCHID CAFE (954-561-9398, $85) on Ocean Boulevard and LE CAFE DE PARIS (954-467-2900, $70) downtown on Las Olas.
At the GOLDEN LYON piano bar in the Riverside Hotel one recent night, the pianist, Dr. Robert M. Campos, a physician who moonlights as a musician so he can play Gershwin and popular tunes from the 1940's and 50's, confided that his family in Montreal nearly disowned him when he took his first piano-playing job at a Montreal brothel to help support himself in medical school. "I just like to do my job and play the piano a little," he said. "In Fort Lauderdale, I can do both without causing comment."

LOCAL LORE
Once-sleepy Fort Lauderdale burst on the cultural map in the 1960's, as jet air travel enticed college students for spring-break revelry celebrated in such movies as "Where the Boys Are," starring Connie Francis. The partying peaked in 1985, when 350,000 students descended on the resort, and then declined sharply as local officials clamped down on the general mayhem. Though the town has a vibrant nightclub life, said one restaurateur, "Now the spring breakers all go to Cancun or Fort Myers, bless them."

This feature about places to stay, eat and visit in leading business destinations appears every Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Las Olas Riverfront Complex in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. (Richard Cummins/Lonely Planet Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BEACHES (77%); MARINAS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); DRINKING PLACES (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BAKERIES (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); AIRPORTS (69%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (69%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (58%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (58%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (97%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) FORT LAUDERDALE (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



160 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 879 words

PERSON: Suzy Parker 

HEADLINE: Suzy Parker, Willowy Model And Actress of 50's, Dies at 69 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Suzy Parker, the willowy, red-headed beauty whose elegant poses on scores of magazine covers defined glamour in the 1950's and paved the way for the supermodels to follow, died on Saturday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 69.
 Her husband, the actor Bradford Dillman, said she had suffered from a number of serious ailments over the last six years. 
 In the period just after World War II, models were becoming celebrities. Fashion's influence was inexorably expanding from high society to society at large, and Suzy Parker, along with other models like Dovima and Lisa Fonssagrives, signified a postwar world of stylish promise for all. When Miss Parker posed in one of fashion's first bikini shots, America noticed. 
Miss Parker was the first model to make more than $100 an hour and $100,000 a year, said Eileen Ford, the doyenne of modeling agents. She also worked as a professional photographer and editor, and she appeared in lead roles in movies with Cary Grant and Gary Cooper.
Ms. Ford said she was simply staggered when the famed model Dorian Leigh, Miss Parker's oldest sister, introduced her to Suzy, then 15.
"She was the most beautiful creature you can imagine," Ms. Ford said. "She was everybody's everything."
Miss Parker's trademark in photographs and later on the movie screen was icy sophistication, often likened to that of Grace Kelly, but in person she exuded a girl-next-door prettiness and a sort of wacky loquaciousness. Audrey Hepburn's role in "Funny Face," as a fast-talking beatnik who somewhat unwillingly becomes a world-famous model, was inspired by her, and she made a cameo appearance in the film, her first movie role.
Miss Parker adored slouch hats of the sort favored by Garbo and collected Coco Chanel's classic designs for herself. Richard Avedon, the photographer, called her "my most challenging and complicated of muses."
Cecilia Ann Renee Parker was born in San Antonio on Oct. 28, 1933. While still in high school in Jacksonville, Fla., she modeled in the summers for Ford Models, and after graduation went to work full time for the agency. In a silent profession Miss Parker was outspoken.
"Suzy Parker didn't stop talking when I first tried to take her picture," Horst, the photographer, said. "I said, 'You keep talking,' and I left. When she got into the movies, I joked that maybe she would do for the movies what she would never do for me -- hold still."
She publicly condemned drinking and smoking and said marriage killed romance. The New York Daily News reported her lecturing a French economist about the French economy. She said she talked too much for most men.
Her often-quoted remark that she could love a man more when she was not married to him exploded in headlines when it turned out she was secretly married. 
That marriage, to Pierre de la Salle in 1958, was actually her second; she had been briefly married to a high school sweetheart. She and Mr. de la Salle, from whom she was later divorced, had a daughter, Georgia, of Paris, who survives her.
In 1963 she married Mr. Dillman, who survives her, along with their daughter, Dinah Kaufman of Irvine, Calif.; their sons Charles, of Los Angeles, and Christopher, of Encinitas, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
Her sisters Dorian Leigh of Paris and Florian Boice of Annapolis, Md., also survive her.
Miss Parker said she looked in the mirror each day and thanked God for her cheekbones. But she insisted that she modeled only for money and had other professional ambitions. In the mid-1950's she temporarily abandoned being a cover girl for several years to be a photographer herself, apprenticing with Henri Cartier-Bresson in Paris and working for the French edition of Vogue.
It was through Mr. Avedon that Miss Parker parlayed her modeling fame into a movie career. As visual consultant in the movie "Funny Face," Mr. Avedon selected her for a brief but conspicuous appearance. Written by Leonard Gershe and directed by Stanley Donen, the 1957 film depicted a high-fashion photographer not unlike Mr. Avedon, played by Fred Astaire. Miss Parker was the inspiration for Audrey Hepburn's character in the film, a somewhat kooky intellectual and free spirit.
Hepburn, in turn, became such a cheerleader that Miss Parker called the actress her "Hollywood press agent."
Miss Parker was cast opposite Cary Grant in "Kiss Them for Me" in 1957, getting bad reviews. She appeared with Gary Cooper the next year in "Ten North Frederick." This time, Bosley Crowther in The New York Times said she underplayed her part "neatly."
She appeared in 1959 in "The Best of Everything," based on Rona Jaffe's novel. In 1961 she played opposite Mr. Dillman in "A Circle of Deception." They wed in 1963. 
Miss Parker was in several more movies and became a sought-after television guest in the 1960's. Her most famous television appearance was in a 1963 episode of "Twilight Zone" in which she played six different parts.
She retired from acting in the mid-1960's and moved with Mr. Dillman to the Santa Barbara area. 
In his book "Cover Girls and Supermodels, 1945-1965" (Marion Boyars, 1996), the French journalist Jean-Noel Liaut said Miss Parker had escaped the unhappy outcomes of other stellar models.
He wrote, "She became a perfect housewife, even to the extent of baking her own bread."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paving the way for the supermodels to follow: Suzy Parker, right, with Coco Chanel, in a photograph taken by Richard Avedon in Paris in 1959. (Richard Avedon) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); FILM (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); WORLD WAR II (56%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PARKER, SUZY; MARTIN, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (77%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (84%)

CATEGORY: Motion Pictures 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



161 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS; 
Drop in Foreign Investment Is Greasing Dollar's Slide

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The dollar continued its slide against the euro and the yen yesterday, as new data indicated that the foreign appetite for United States stocks and bonds was slowing.
 Recent data from the Treasury showed that net purchases of United States stocks and bonds by foreigners slowed to $23.8 billion in February, the third consecutive monthly drop in foreign purchases. The decline in February was 31.2 percent. It came after an 8.1 percent decline in January and a 46.1 percent fall in December, when the dollar's current slide began. 
 "The dollar is suffering from a two-prong situation," said David Puth, global head of foreign exchange and commodities at J. P. Morgan.
First, he said, the United States' current account deficit has grown to about $500 billion with the rest of the world, and the flow of investment from abroad has to continue to cover that gap. So the slowing of that flow hurts the dollar. (The current account deficit includes profits on investments as well as trade in goods and services.)
Second, interest rates in the United States are low, and higher yields abroad are attracting investors away from the dollar. "We are a world searching for yield," Mr. Puth said, which is taking investors to higher-yielding currencies, including the Canadian dollar, the South African rand, the Australian dollar and the euro.
If Federal Reserve policy makers, who are meeting today, reduce the federal funds rate on overnight loans among banks, which is now 1.25 percent, that could put further downward pressure on the dollar. The consensus among Wall Street experts, however, is that the Fed will leave the rate unchanged.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the euro was valued at $1.1280, up from $1.1231 on Friday. The dollar traded at 118.63 yen, down from 118.93 on Friday.
Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at the MG Financial Group, noted that the three-month slowdown in foreign purchases of American stocks and bonds was the first since November 2001 though January 2002, after 9/11. This is good evidence, he said, that "global investors are putting money into other currencies because of the higher yield."
After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the dollar fell at first but then rose at the end of the year as the stock market rallied sharply. The main difference from then and now is that American interest rates were rising at the end of 2001 and were higher than they currently are, helping make the dollar a more attractive investment.
United States interest rates are now below those offered by many foreign countries except Japan.
In 2001, the yield on the two-year Treasury note rose to 3.23 percent near the end of the year from 2.30 percent in November while the yield on the 10-year note rose to a high of 5.20 percent from 4.18 percent. The yield on the two-year note has fallen close to 1.5 percent now, while the yield on the 10-year note is hovering just below 4 percent.
The yield is 4.61 percent on an Australian two-year note, while the yield in Germany is 2.40 percent. The two-year yield is 3.69 percent in Canada and 11 percent in South Africa.
Many forecasters are expecting the drop of the dollar to continue, partly because they expect the economic rebound in the United States to be modest at best. But J. P. Morgan expects a nice dollar rally in the summer because its forecasters expect the pace of economic growth to pick up to a 4 percent annual pace in the third quarter, from 1.5 percent in this second. This would push the euro down to about $1.08 and the dollar up to about 123 yen. But because growth will slow a little toward the end of the year, the dollar will fall again, finishing the year around where it is now, J. P. Morgan said.

GRAPHIC: Graph "Euro in Dollars" tracks the Euro to the dollar, since November 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EURO (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: MG FINANCIAL GROUP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) TREASURY DEPARTMENT; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (69%); SOUTH AFRICA (54%) EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



162 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Teachers' Union Sues Klein, Claiming Bias in Layoffs of Aides 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
The union representing New York City teachers sued Chancellor Joel I. Klein yesterday, accusing him of racial discrimination and saying his plan to lay off nearly 1,000 classroom aides disproportionately affected black and Hispanic workers. 
 Randi Weingarten, the union president, said the layoffs were "an unconscionable choice" because two-thirds of classroom aides, known as paraprofessionals, were black and Hispanic, and because they were among the school system's lowest-paid employees. The 17,000 paraprofessionals are paid an average of $23,000 a year, she said. 
 The lawsuit, filed in State Supreme Court in the Bronx, seeks to block the Education Department's plan to send pink slips to 864 paraprofessionals. It questions why Mr. Klein would lay off paraprofessionals just as he is creating more than 130 supervisory jobs as part of his reorganization of the school system. 
Most of those hired as supervisors are white and earn six-figure salaries, according to the lawsuit. They include 10 regional superintendents who are replacing district superintendents, their deputies, 108 instructional supervisors and 6 regional operations managers. Mr. Klein has insisted that the reorganization is needed to tame the bureaucracy.
The paraprofessional layoffs are supposed to save at least $22 million, while the reorganization will cost $250 million over two years.
"The fact that two-thirds of our paras are black and Latino and that the executives who have just been hired are not makes this a clear violation of the state's and the city's human rights laws," Ms. Weingarten said at a news conference at the Manhattan headquarters of the union, the United Federation of Teachers. 
Mr. Klein's office referred inquiries about the lawsuit to Deputy Mayor Dennis M. Walcott, who predicted that it would have no standing in court. "It's unfair and really quite sad that they are injecting race and discrimination into the conversation," Mr. Walcott said. "Discrimination is something this administration will never practice."
After Ms. Weingarten's news conference, she received a memo from the Education Department saying the layoffs would go into effect on June 16. She said Mr. Klein had assured her before that they would not take effect until after the school year ends on June 26.
Paraprofessionals have been a fixture in the schools since the 1970's, when the position was created in response to pressure from minority residents who wanted more control over local schools. It was hoped that many paraprofessionals would become teachers, diversifying the overwhelmingly white teaching force.
While 7,000 paraprofessionals have become teachers, the teaching force is now 62 percent white and only 21 percent black, 14 percent Hispanic and 3 percent Asian.
Paraprofessionals are also more likely than teachers to live near the schools where they work, which Bertha Lewis, the executive director of New York Acorn, a community advocacy group, said was another reason not to lay them off.
"The laying off of these black and brown women who spend their money in the neighborhoods and live in the neighborhoods is tantamount to writing off low-income black and brown students in our school system," she said at the news conference.
The paraprofessionals who are to be laid off include 194 of the 4,000 who work in elementary and middle schools and 670 of the 900 who work in high schools. Most of these paraprofessionals work in a single classroom or divide their time among several, helping the teacher by working with small groups of students who need extra attention.
The school system also employs about 11,000 special education paraprofessionals, who work solely with disabled students. Those paraprofessionals cannot belaid off, because their numbers are regulated by a 1980 court decree. 
Chancellor Klein also intends to lay off about 1,400 school aides, most of whom work part time in lunchrooms or school offices or as hallway and playground monitors. Those aides are represented by another union, District Council 37. 
All the layoffs are part of $178 million in cuts that Mr. Klein says he must make to the school system's $12.4 billion budget to help address the city's $3.9 billion budget gap.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg asked the city's labor unions for $600 million in productivity savings to avert layoffs and other cuts, but he rejected the unions' offer. 
Many paraprofessionals work in overcrowded classrooms, where parent and student advocates say their presence would be most acutely missed. Their numbers are always shifting, since paraprofessionals are among the first to be laid off during budget crises and hired during flush economic times. 
This would be the largest layoff of paraprofessionals since at least 1991, school officials said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAEDUCATORS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); RACE & RACISM (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); JOB CREATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%) UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; KLEIN, JOEL I (CHANCELLOR); WEINGARTEN, RANDI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



163 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Journal; 
For $50, a Still Life With Uncrowded Art Lovers

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
The crook-necked arabesque? Nowhere in evidence. The razor-elbowed cutoff? Unnecessary. There wasn't even a subtle, but ever so strategic, shove. 
 That's because 5,500 desperate patrons were not standing on tiptoe yesterday, as they did Sunday, to glimpse some visible portion of the giant canvases in "Manet/Velazquez: The French Taste for Spanish Painting," at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Instead, some 200 visitors ambled through that show in the second-floor Tisch Galleries yesterday, conducting leisurely perusals of the masterpieces thanks to a new policy at the Met. They got up close and personal, and raised their voices in gratitude. 
 "It's so wonderful to have access to these paintings without fighting to see them," said Mary Goodman, a photographer from Phoenix. "You actually have space to think." 
May Brawley Hill, an art historian, said, "I like to linger without being jostled," adding: "Looking at paintings is a one-on-one thing. You want to stand in front of the work and let it speak." 
And Angelika Thusius, an artist who was visiting New York from Ashland, Ore., took time out from a profound study of Manet's "Monk at Prayer" to assert that she deplored the background babble at overcrowded shows. "You hear the whisper of all the other audio guides," she said. 
Although the museum was closed yesterday, as it has been from time immemorial on Mondays, these visitors were beneficiaries of the breathing room established by Member Mondays, a new program of private viewings that admits a maximum of 300 members for the day, instead of as many as 1,000 an hour. 
The catch? Each must pay $50 for the privilege. O.K., the museum throws in the $6 audio guide gratis. 
Since Feb. 3, some 2,000 members have availed themselves of Member Mondays, paying $100,000. "In this economy, we needed to find new revenue streams to draw upon," said Emily K. Rafferty, the Met's senior vice president for external affairs. 
The Met has already lost millions of dollars from its endowment because of the economic slump, and New York City is threatening a 35 percent cut, or $4.2 million, in its planned subsidy for 2004. 
"It's like getting front-row seats on Broadway," Ms. Rafferty said, adding, "We thought our members might like to see this incredibly important exhibition under the most ideal circumstances, uncrowded, setting their own timetable for themselves." 
Since 1989, it has been the policy of the museum's director, Philippe de Montebello, not to charge extra for special shows. Thanks to the museum's operating covenant with New York City, which owns the building and land, the institution may currently request only a suggested admission donation of $12. 
For now, Member Mondays is "an experiment," said Ms. Rafferty, "and it seems to be a success -- we have earned income." The museum has to subtract from its $50 fee the cost of security guards and other services to keep galleries open on Monday, which traditionally has been "a day for painting, fixing, and moving art around," Ms. Rafferty said. Members -- and group planners who have a relationship with the Met -- can call (212) 731-1200 for reservations. 
Yesterday, not all the visitors paid their own $50. "We're here to create a study guide for our students," said Roselle Mironer, a teacher whose employer -- the Birch Wathen Lenox School in Manhattan -- paid for her attendance, as well as that of three other teachers.
And former Senator George McGovern and the author Kurt Vonnegut, along with his wife, the photographer Jill Krementz, moseyed through the hushed galleries yesterday as guests of the Met, although their $50 fee was paid for by the museum's Department of Communications, which invited them. "It is so refreshing to stand in front of a painting, and not to be forced to move on," Mr. McGovern said. 
But Mr. Vonnegut suffered from exclusivity angst. "I suppose it might be offensive to the poor people outside, who are denied this experience," noted Mr. Vonnegut, who, like Mr. McGovern, is 80. "Sort of like publicly riding around in a limousine." 
He was so right. "I understand their motivation, but it is unfair," said Cathrin Goodarzi, 30, a tourist from Dusseldorf, Germany, who, along with her husband, Ramin, was politely turned away by security guards yesterday on the museum's monumental Fifth Avenue stairs. "I think $50 is too much, even if we were members." She sighed, then smiled. "We're going up to the Guggenheim!" 
Inside, however, many visitors were relieved not to resort to crowd-coping strategies. "I have the advantage of being tall," said Ms. Hill, "so in the crush, I usually plant myself in one spot, and dare people to block my view." 
Mr. Vonnegut has his own overcrowding strategy. "I call for a taxicab," he said. "I'd prefer not to see a show that way." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, 3 p.m. Saturday at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, as the public tried to see a painting of St. Sebastian. Above, yesterday, same spot, same painting, viewed by members who paid an extra $50. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); ART HISTORY (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); HISTORY (71%); EXECUTIVES (61%) ART; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



164 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Taxi Trade Groups to Ask for Higher Fares 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
With subway and bus fares going up, can taxis be far behind? Maybe not.
 The taxi industry's largest trade group plans to ask the Taxi and Limousine Commission within two or three weeks for an increase in the base fare likely to exceed 23 percent. A smaller group representing drivers has already filed a petition, recommending that the base fare be kept at $2 but that the charge for each additional one-fifth of a mile rise to 40 cents from 30 cents and that the flat rate between Manhattan and Kennedy Airport rise to $45 from $35. 
 Ron Sherman, the president of the larger group, the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, whose 13 member garages account for 20 percent of the industry, said yesterday that escalating costs for upkeep and insurance were the driving force behind the requested increase, which would be the first in seven years. 
The taxi group had asked for a 23.36 percent increase in November 2001 to cope with rising business costs and a shortage of drivers. But the commission never acted on the proposal, and the taxi group withdrew it, promising to supply fresh data to justify the increase. Now, with the cost of doing business continuing to rise, it is time for an increase, Mr. Sherman said. He said the group's accountants were working on how much of an increase to request, but he noted that business costs were higher now than in 2001.
Mr. Sherman said that despite speculation to the contrary by some industry watchers, the increase was not related to a proposal by the city and state to sell 900 more taxi medallions over three years as a way to raise revenue for the cash-starved city. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had included the proposal in his budget, projecting that it would raise about $195 million, but such a sale would have to be authorized by the State Legislature.
The Taxi and Limousine Commission has already hired a consultant to study how additional cabs would affect the environment and transportation flow in the city.
The value of the medallions has been increasing over the past year because of a host of factors, including increases in ridership. The medallions now sell for $222,000 to $253,000, an increase of more than 10 percent in the past year.
Ridership last year reached 238 million passengers, the second-highest level after the record 241 million in 1999.
Matthew W. Daus, the chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, said it was unclear whether additional medallions would drive down their value, thus diminishing the revenue the city is counting on. Staggering the sales over three years would help, he said.
Mr. Sherman said he supported the proposal for more medallions as a way to help the city out of fiscal pain, but in the next breath he noted the need for a fare increase.
"They have not said if you support a medallion increase we will give you a fare increase," Mr. Sherman said, but added that "a fare increase is long overdue."
Bhairavi Desai, coordinator of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, which represents 4,800 drivers, said that "the jury is still out" on whether an additional 900 cabs would be detrimental to drivers. Her group filed a petition on Wednesday before the Taxi and Limousine Commission asking for a fare increase and changes to lease arrangements that her group says impose onerous charges on drivers. 
Mr. Daus of the T.L.C. said that adding medallions and increasing the fare were separate issues evaluated according to different criteria.
But noting the talk of a fare increase, despite the high value of the medallions, the high levels of ridership and the relative silence of the drivers over an increase in medallions, some followers of the taxi industry suggested a deal had been struck.
"City Hall is trying to make a deal to smooth the sale of 900 medallions," said Edward Rogoff, a Baruch College management professor who has studied the economics of the taxi industry.
Not so, Mr. Bloomberg's aides said.
Although Mr. Bloomberg spoke approvingly of a taxi fare increase last year, yesterday his communications director, William T. Cunningham, was more circumspect, saying that such a proposal must be studied carefully.
He said a fare increase should be based strictly on the cost of business and not on any sale of medallions.
"They would have to make a case for it," Mr. Cunningham said. "It can't be just that they don't like more cars." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); MAYORS (67%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); PETITIONS (57%) TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION (NYC); METROPOLITAN TAXICAB BOARD OF TRADE 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; SHERMAN, RON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



165 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Another health insurer benefits from a slowdown in some costs, but premiums have not fallen.

BYLINE:  By Milt Freudenheim 

 BODY:
OXFORD HEALTH PLANS reported improved first-quarter earnings yesterday and raised its profits forecast for the year, becoming the latest health insurer to benefit from a nationwide trend of moderating hospital and drug costs. 
 A combination of slowing sales of expensive drugs and softening demand for hospital services has reduced medical costs for most managed care companies. Oxford, for its part, said net income rose 2.1 percent, to $72.9 million, or 86 cents a share, from $71.4 million, or 78 cents a share, a year earlier, as costs rose 8.4 percent, compared with 10 to 11 percent in 2002. 
 But industry executives and analysts said they were not sure whether the easing of medical costs for insurance companies would be powerful enough to translate into price breaks in the premiums that health plan customers pay. 
"Most managed care companies are taking a cautious wait-and-see approach, given how challenging the upward medical cost trends have been over the last six years," said Roberta Goodman, a health care analyst at Merrill Lynch. But, she added, "there should be some reason for cautious optimism" that health care will become more affordable. That, she said, "is probably the single biggest issue, both from an economic and policy standpoint." Investors shared that optimism yesterday as Oxford shares jumped $3.55, or 12 percent, to $33.90, leading a modest rally in managed care stocks.
Special circumstances lowered medical costs early this year but may not bolster future quarter-to-quarter comparisons. They included a weak flu season that cut into hospital admissions, a sharp decline in sales of two leading drugs, and stormy winter weather that may have led some consumers to postpone doctor visits.
Negative news about hormone replacements for women depressed demand for Premarin, which had been the second-largest-selling drug, after Pfizer's cholesterol drug Lipitor. The allergy treatment Claritin, another top-selling drug as a prescription product, became available over the counter in December, and most health plans no longer pay for it. 
The sluggish economy was also a factor in the reduced demand for medical services and drugs. Employers have been transferring a larger share of health care costs to their workers, who in turn appear to be putting off some elective treatments. 
But the weak economy is also reducing demand for the services of health insurers. "We are very concerned about the economy," said Charles G. Berg, chief executive of Oxford, which has 1.6 million members, mainly in the New York area. "It's really tough on small businesses in New York. Few new businesses are started, fewer are providing health insurance." That is slowing recruitment of new members, he said. 
Oxford is competing with Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield and Aetna for small-business customers. Mr. Berg said competitors, which he did not name, were offering some types of coverage at prices that are too low in Oxford's view. 
If cost trends truly appear to be moderating, he added, "that will be reflected in our pricing."
Health insurance companies went through a rough patch in the early 1990's when some offered low prices to gain market share and got into financial trouble. They are wary of repeating that experience.
Most health insurers are now raising premiums more rapidly than medical costs are rising, and they do not want to be caught changing course too soon. 
"One quarter is not a long enough time to know," said Michael L. Smith, chief financial officer of Anthem Inc., which operates Blue Cross plans in nine states, with 11.5 million members. 
"We've never seen anything like it," said Larry Feinberg, a managing director of Oracle Partners, a health care investment fund. "People are delaying elective surgery, doctor visits. Everything slowed in the first quarter."
Some cardiovascular patients have put off procedures to open blocked arteries, instead waiting for new drug-coated versions of miniature pipelike devices called stents, according to Mr. Feinberg. Tests have show them more effective than the older stents in preventing recurrence of the clogging, he said. 
The cost of the new coated stents, made by Johnson & Johnson, will be at least 2.5 times that of the older models, Mr. Feinberg said, adding to insurers' costs, at least initially. But the manufacturers say the devices could offer savings in the long run by avoiding repeat procedures. 
Mr. Feinberg said he had heard from several hospital groups that the number of patients admitted was picking up last month, after the slack first quarter. But Robert M. Mains, a health care stocks analyst at Advest Group, said most hospitals were still seeing "lower-than-expected volume in the current quarter." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (72%); MENOPAUSE (70%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); INFLUENZA (50%); ALLERGIES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH INSURANCE; HOSPITALS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (60%); PFIZER INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OXFORD HEALTH PLANS 

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



166 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: BUDGETS IN CRISIS: ECONOMY; 
City's Crisis Doesn't Mirror The Big Picture, Economists Say

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
For months, the New York City economy has been described in terms neither encouraging nor dire. Sluggish, it has been called by economists. Anemic. Weak. Joblessness is up and wages are down, but the city has seen worse. Firms are not departing, home prices have not plummeted, residents are not jumping ship.
 Then last month, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled two budgets. The first he called painful; the second, devastating. His best-case plan entailed laying off 4,500 city workers. 
 His worst-case one would have required 14,500 layoffs, 40 firehouse closings, padlocked swimming pools, fewer police officers. 
The term used for the second budget was the "doomsday budget."
The Legislature has since agreed to help the city, raising the sales tax and imposing a temporary income tax surcharge on higher-income New Yorkers. But the doomsday terminology brought home a paradox: The city government is in crisis; yet the economy appears not to be -- at least, not quite.
"I haven't heard anybody refer to the economy as the 'doomsday economy,' " said Marc M. Goloven, the senior regional economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. "If you view it through the lens of the public sector budget, things do look pretty bleak when you are facing significant budget deficits.
"But one can be generally optimistic about the economy," he said, "because if indeed the national economy picks up steam and gathers momentum, then the New York City economy will, too. And it does appear that the national economy is picking up steam."
A municipal budget, after all, is a product of more than the health of the local economy.
It is shaped by past decisions about taxes and spending, along with things like the political calendar and the availability of state aid. In New York City, a handful of high-paying industries contribute disproportionately to tax revenues. When those industries stumble, the city's finances collapse.
The city's economy is certainly not flourishing. More than 225,000 jobs have been lost since late 2000. The unemployment rate is 8.8 percent, compared with 6 percent nationally. Wage earnings have declined for two years in a row. Hard-hit industries have cut a quarter to half their jobs.
On Wall Street, the profits of New York Stock Exchange member firms dropped to less than $7 billion in 2002 from $10.4 billion in 2001. Companies cut their compensation expenses by 11 percent.
The resulting layoffs and cuts in bonuses have reverberated throughout the city.
And there is more.
"The economy is more than just jobs and wages," said Andrew M. Joseph, the city's deputy comptroller for the budget.
"They're a convenient measure," he explained, "but people at times can get overly focused on them. There are other portions of the economy, including profits and capital gains."
James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research group, said, "I'm one of those people who think that the recession is as severe, if not more so, than the budget from the point of view of the effect on average people in New York."
The economy does not appear, however, to have sunk to the levels it reached during the recessions of the early 1990's and the 1970's. Between 1987 and 1992, New York City lost about 340,000 jobs. Unemployment peaked at 11.6 percent. In the 1970's, the city lost 600,000 jobs.
This time, there has been no exodus of employers as in earlier recessions. Housing prices may have dipped a little but have remained relatively stable. The crime rate has continued to drop. A handful of industries, including several big ones, have weathered the recession moderately well.
Jobs in health care and education, for example, have actually increased since late 2000, as have jobs in social services. Jim Brown, a labor market analyst for the State Department of Labor, said some retail service sectors are also doing all right.
Marcia Van Wagner, chief economist for the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan civic organization, said of the recession: "It's heavily concentrated in two areas, in the financial sector and in the tourism industry. Which is not to say that other people haven't been hit.
"What you're not seeing is a lot of boarded-up stores," she said. "Toward the tail end of the recession in the early 90's, that was noticeable. That becomes a visible sign of a failing economy. That's not something we're seeing at this point, at least not in the central business district."
She added: "For most people, if you have a job, you don't notice that much. It's that old saw about the difference between a recession and a depression: A recession is when your neighbor loses his job, and a depression is when you lose your job."
The city's fiscal crisis, on the other hand, is unambiguous.
Until the Legislature and the Bloomberg administration reached agreement over the weekend, the city was facing a $3.8 billion budget gap in the coming fiscal year. And Gov. George E. Pataki has said he would veto at least the state portion of the proposed tax increases.
Under Mr. Bloomberg's merely "painful" budget plan, the city would lay off more people than at any time since 1991. Children's clinics and two zoos, among other things, would be closed. Under the "devastating" budget, the Police Department would be shrunk to its smallest size since at least 1995.
"We have a very bad budget situation," said Carol O'Cleireacain, a former New York City finance commissioner and a budget director during the Dinkins administration who is now a nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "But we have had worse economic situations."
The fact is, the local economy and the budget do not move in unison, economists say.
It takes time for an economic downturn or upturn to leave its full mark on the budget. Early in the current recession, the city still had accumulated surpluses to fall back on. And after the 1990's recession, the city remained in bad fiscal health for two years after job growth resumed.
Now, the national economy is no longer in recession, although some signs are pointing that way again. The rate of job loss in New York City is said to have slowed. But the damage done to city revenues by two years of decline and malaise is glaringly apparent.
"The government tends to be late to the party," Mr. Brown said. "Private sector employment peaked out at the end of 2000. We're only really getting discussions of layoffs now. In 2001, when the economy was already weakening, city tax revenues were still influenced by those nice, fat bonuses."
The crisis also reflects the nature of the city's tax structure. New York depends heavily for its revenue on certain high-paying industries, and those industries, including the securities industry, are the ones that this time around have been worst hit.
The tax structure is especially sensitive to fluctuations in income, economists say, because the city has a personal income tax and business income taxes. The current recession has been characterized by an unusually steep drop in income, resulting in a steep drop in tax revenues.
"You have tax revenue that is much more dependent on certain sectors of the economy than on others," Ms. O'Cleireacain said. "You've got some powerful engines. And when those engines stall, everything can go on well for other people, but it makes a big dent. To me, that's the kernel of it."
The city's dependence on the financial sector appears to have increased in the 1990's. According to Mr. Joseph of the city comptroller's office, financial services and insurance accounted for 3.9 percent of all jobs in 1990 and 9.3 percent of all wages. By 2000, that sector accounted for 5 percent of all jobs and 19.8 percent of all wages, or one-fifth of the city's economy.
"It may have been hard hit but it's a wealthy sector generating huge amounts of economic activity," Mr. Joseph said. "If you have a sector that was huge and it contracts, it will have a disproportionate impact. But it still can be the major element of your economy."
So which is a better indicator of the city's health: the economy or the budget?
"You have to take the two together," Ms. Van Wagner said. "Part of the condition of the city is how solvent the government is. Clearly, there are serious problems. And if the city engages in a lot of layoffs and has to reduce services, that's going to affect the economy and the attractiveness of the city."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Recession Brings Doomsday Budgets"New York Citys finances, dependent on profits from the financial services industry, are in worse shape than the citys economy as a whole. Graph tracks:Mixed results on jobs . . .Year-over-year percentage change in jobs in February, by industry . . . but a bleak tax outlookNew York City non-property tax revenues by fiscal year, in billions (Sources: New York State Department of Labor; Mayors Office of Management and Budget)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); SALES TAX (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CLOSINGS (73%); HOME PRICES (57%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



167 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: BOARD AUTHORIZES INCREASES IN RENT UP TO 8.5 PERCENT 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Setting the stage for what would be the largest rent increases since 1989, the New York City Rent Guidelines Board gave landlords preliminary approval last night to raise rents up to 8.5 percent for the one million apartments affected by rent stabilization.
 The board's approval of 5.5 percent increases for one-year leases and 8.5 percent for two-year leases reflected a surge in landlord expenses for property taxes, fuel and insurance. The board's decision not to approve the double-digit increases urged by landlord groups reflected how much tenants, too, have been reeling because of record unemployment and a weak economy. 
 Still, the approval prompted peals of anger from the crowd of onlookers, most of them tenants, who gathered for the meeting last night in the United States Custom House downtown. At one point, the yelling was so heated that the police removed at least one tenant organizer. 
Every spring, the board wrestles with how much to change rents for the one million apartments that are subject to rent regulations. Year after year during the series of public hearings before the final vote in June, landlords say they are not making enough money and tenants say they are paying too much. 
This year, though, has been unusual, both sides agree. The vote, the first by a rent board made up mainly of appointees of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, came against a bleak backdrop of budget cuts, pending tax increases, a subway fare increase, the city's struggling economy and the lingering effects of the 9/11 terrorist attack. As a result, the discussion leading to the vote this year was seasoned with an extra degree of urgency. 
The board discussed the proposals but heard no testimony last night, though there will be a chance at a later hearing for the public to be heard. Tenants still managed a running and often blistering commentary during and after the meeting, in tones ranging from heckling to whispers. 
After the vote, some tenants in the audience started chanting: "What do we need? A rent freeze! When do we need it? Now!"
Others yelled: "Shame, shame, shame!"
One tenant said, "These people are like Saddam Hussein."
One of the handful of landlord allies who attended stood up and yelled back, "The chairman has spoken, you freeloaders."
For the record, the board voted 6 to 3, after a 90-minute hearing. For lofts, the board proposed increases of 4 percent for one-year leases and 7 percent for two-year renewals. For residential hotels, the board proposed an annual increase of 4 percent.
There will be one more public hearing, on June 17. Then comes the final vote on June 19, and the resulting increases would apply to leases that are renewed between Oct. 1, 2003, and Sept. 30, 2004. The final vote rarely differs from the preliminary one.
Of the city's three million dwelling units, about two million are occupied by renters, though the national rate is one-third renters. Of the two million rental units, about one million are stabilized units and therefore subject to the rates set by the board. About 350,000 more are rent-controlled apartments, public housing and other kinds of government-related residences, while only 650,000 units are not regulated, said Anita Visser, executive director of the Rent Guidelines Board.
Since the board was established in 1968 to review rent rates, there has never been a rent decrease or even rent freeze. During the high-inflation years of the late 1970's and early 1980's, the board sometimes approved rent increases of up to 14 percent for two-year leases. In the late 1980's and early 1990's, rising fuel costs were largely responsible for rent increases of up to 9 percent for two-year leases.
For the better part of the last decade, rents have gone up by a few percentage points, in keeping with low inflation. Last year, for instance, the board approved increases of 2 percent for one-year leases, and 4 percent for two-year leases, even though the price index of operating costs, a study that summarizes landlords' expenses, showed a decrease for the first time in history.
This year, by contrast, that price index rose 16.9 percent, the highest since 1980, when it jumped by 17 percent and the resulting rent rates went up by as much as 14 percent for two-year leases. Tenants' groups said the 16.9 percent increase was offset by a 19 percent gain in landlords' net operating income over the last decade. 
Before the vote last night, the board came under extra scrutiny because five of its nine members were newcomers. They replaced members with decades of collective experience who had either resigned, indicated a reluctance to serve again or were not reappointed by Mr. Bloomberg.
In years past, membership on the board did not exactly have its privileges. Its per diem allotment of $100 is among the lowest of the city boards, the board's decisions often leave tenants and landlords seething with anger, and board members have sometimes been subject to an intense political vise.
For instance, in 2001, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who was never shy about voicing his opinions on rent increases, replaced the board's chairman and appointed two other new members just in time for them to take their seats and vote. That was also the rare year in which the final vote differed from the preliminary one, and changed rent increases of 3 and 5 percent to 4 and 6 percent.
By all accounts, Mr. Bloomberg has granted his appointees far more independence than Mr. Giuliani did. Board members said they struggled with the immense volume of data and arcane information all weekend before arriving at the final figures last night, in full public view.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tenants demonstrated outside the United States Custom House yesterday as the Rent Guidelines Board was considering new rates for rent-stabilized apartments. Inside, the board's decisions left David Pagan, right, a member who represents tenants' interests, looking grim. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Higher Rents Likely"Yesterdays preliminary vote by the Rent Guidelines Board would allow the largest rent increase for one year leases on rent-stabilized apartments since 1989. Graph tracks rent increases for one year leases on rent-stabilized apartments since 1970. (Source: Rent Guidelines Board)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RENT CONTROL (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); APPROVALS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); HEATING OIL (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; LANDLORDS; LANDLORDS; INSURANCE; HEATING OIL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

ORGANIZATION: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



168 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Virtual Travel Gives the Airlines Real Heartburn

BYLINE:  By JANE L. LEVERE 

 BODY:
There was no way the four architects at Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates in New York were going to fly to Beijing last month in the midst of the SARS epidemic for a meeting with officials of the developer of an office tower there and two consultants who were supposed to be arriving from the Philippines.
 Instead, said James R. Brogan, K.P.F.'s director of information technology, the various parties -- all 40 of them -- got the job done over the Web and by videoconferencing. "We used WebEx to share material, a PowerPoint presentation, CAD drawings and digital images," Mr. Brogan said. "We could also sketch and mark things up. It was completely interactive." 
 Mr. Brogan's delight at the outcome -- not only did his firm accomplish what it set out to do, but it also saved a lot of time and money -- is enough to make a grown airline chief executive cry. Battered by terrorist attacks, a wobbly world economy and the severe acute respiratory syndrome scare, the entire travel industry now has to cope with corporate America's growing love affair with teleconferencing.
Though teleconferencing has been around for years, new technology is making it easier and cheaper than ever, meaning that it will probably continue to eat into the revenues of airlines, hotels, car rental companies and other segments of the travel industry even if all the other ordeals the industry has gone through fade away.
"In the search for a credible explanation as to why business travel spending has fallen three times more in this downturn then in the past, bandwidth must certainly play a role," said Sam Buttrick, an airline analyst for UBS Warburg. "Over the past decade, and particularly in recent years, bandwidth has gotten faster and cheaper, neither of which could be said about business travel."
Elliot Gold, president of TeleSpan Publishing, an Altadena, Calif., market research company, said the use of all types of teleconferencing, including audioconferencing, videoconferencing and Web conferencing, jumped more than 35 percent after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Though it then tapered off, the trend is clear: More than 78 percent of corporate travel managers surveyed last spring by the Business Travel Coalition, a lobbying group, said they had increased their reliance on teleconferencing and 86 percent said they planned to do so in 2002. A similar poll last month indicated that the SARS epidemic was contributing to the shift to technology from air travel.
It helps that the number of products and services available is growing rapidly. Companies supplying them include Polycom and Tandberg, the two largest suppliers of videoconferencing equipment; AT&T and MCI, the telecommunications giants that do an estimated $500 million each in teleconferencing business annually; and a parade of smaller players like ACT Teleconferencing; Genesys Conferencing; Global Crossing; Intercall; Sprint; V-SPAN; Premiere Conferencing, a unit of Ptek Holdings; Wire One Technologies; TeleSuite; WebEx; and PlaceWare, now being acquired by Microsoft. And companies like Affinity, Proximity, HQ Global Workplaces and Kinko's rent out videoconference rooms.
All this competition is driving the cost of teleconferencing down. Andrew W. Davis, managing partner of Wainhouse Research, a Brookline, Mass., consulting company that specializes in the industry, says the price of installing a videoconferencing system in a corporate office has fallen to around $9,000 today from $27,000 in 1998. The cost of a videoconference call has dropped to just 80 cents a minute per site from $1.60 in 1998, he says, while that of an audioconference call has dropped to just 12 to 19 cents a minute per site, from 33 or 34 cents in 1998.
Some travel companies figure that if you can't beat them, join them. Marriott International will set up conference sessions at any location through its EventCom Technologies division. Even two large corporate-travel companies, Rosenbluth International and TQ3 Travel Solutions, offer teleconferencing services to clients as an alternative to business travel. Rosenbluth refers its clients to TeleSuite, while TQ3 works with V-SPAN; both receive commissions for referrals.
A few companies have embraced teleconferencing with the fervor of religious converts. One V-SPAN customer, Nick Walker, chief executive of Xpherix, a San Jose software company, says it has replaced all but one or two of the company's monthly sales meetings for an annual savings of $100,000. Not only that, a sales representative in Australia who used to skip the meetings for budgetary reasons can now take part, he says, and the time that employees save from travel frees them up "to spend the day with customers."
Another believer is Darlene MacKinnon, a Midland, Mich., public affairs official for Dow Chemical, who said she chopped her business travel expenditures by more than one-third in the first quarter.
"One year ago, I would have purchased a bunch of plane tickets and flown to Brazil, Hong Kong, Switzerland, Italy and Germany" to meet with her 25 staff members scattered around the world, she said. "Instead, because travel has been severely restricted, I held a videoconference."
It was not just a satisfactory substitute for hitting the road, she said, it was a significant improvement. "It was more than ideal," Ms. MacKinnon said. "All of us got to see each other for the first time. I'm a working mom, with a 7- and a 4-year-old. I could meet with 25 people from around the world, and then be home for dinner with my kids."
It would be easy to exaggerate the impact of teleconferencing on business travel. Even its most ardent fans acknowledge it can never replace human contact as a lubricant for deal making. Executives like to size up their partners, rivals and clients face to face -- to read body language, probe for strengths and weaknesses, and establish rapport.
"It will not replace or reduce travel when things get better," said Pam Arway, American Express's executive vice president for corporate travel for North America. "At the end of the day, face-to-face meetings are always more effective and productive than long-distance calls or even videoconferences."
Mark Wasserman, a partner in Sutherland Asbill & Brennan, an Atlanta law firm, feels similarly. Although he is a frequent participant in both audioconferences and videoconferences, particularly for internal meetings, he says that neither forum allows the give-and-take required in negotiating sessions. "It's not a substitute for actually being there," Mr. Wasserman said. "You can't caucus, pull aside your client, talk with him about an issue raised by the other side and then come up with a response."
"To keep people on a phone or video call for eight full hours is extremely difficult," he added. 
Even so, some people cannot get enough of it. Joseph Dilg, a managing partner of Vinson & Elkins, a Houston law firm, said that he took part in six conference calls while on a four-day skiing trip to Deer Valley, Utah, in February.

Readers are invited to send stories about business travel experiences to businesstravel@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Darlene MacKinnon, a public affairs official for Dow Chemical, in a company teleconferencing room, which has helped cut business travel. (Marcia Curtis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECONFERENCING (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SARS (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (89%); BANDWIDTH (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EPIDEMICS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TERRORISM (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (63%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (63%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (58%); LOBBYING (53%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: INTERCALL INC (81%); KOHN PEDERSEN FOX ASSOCIATES PC (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (53%); PREMIERE CONFERENCING (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%)

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



169 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
MEMO PAD

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
Virgin Atlantic Is Busy Making News
 Virgin Atlantic Airways has been busy making news recently. First, Virgin's irrepressible chairman, Sir Richard Branson, announced last month that his airline was prepared to take over operation of the Concorde fleet that arch rival British Airways has said it plans to retire after the summer. 
 Last Friday, meanwhile, Virgin dispatched what it described as the first nonmilitary aircraft to land in Iraq since the war started. The Virgin 747 carried 60 tons of medical supplies to Basra in conjunction with British military relief operations. In a statement, Virgin's chairman noted that besides providing critical medical supplies, the flight indicated the importance of the ultimate return to Iraq of commercial air transportation, with "resumption of trade links" and personal travel to and from the country.

Fewer Screeners At U.S. Airports
For about a year, some frequent fliers have joked that T.S.A. really stands for "thousands standing around," as the employees among the new force of 56,000 federal security screeners often found themselves with little to do during certain times at some airports.
Citing "budget realities," the Transportation Security Administration announced plans to lay off 6,000 of those screeners -- 3,000 by the end of this month and another 3,000 by Sept. 30. In announcing the layoffs, the agency reaffirmed its commitment to airport security.
James C. May, the president of the Air Transport Association, the airline industry's trade group, reacted to the news in a statement. "With the summer travel season upon us, and our travel and tourism markets struggling for recovery, it is imperative that air travelers continue to find both first-class security and first-class service at the airport," he said, adding, "We fully understand the economic realities the T.S.A. is facing, but we know, too, that the agency has proven over and over again that it can adapt and get the job done." JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); LEISURE TRAVEL (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); TOURISM (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; AIRPORTS 

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (96%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (70%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%) VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD; TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION; AIR TRANSPORT ASSN 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (70%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (74%) SHARKEY, JOE; MAY, JAMES C 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) IRAQ; IRAQ; BASRA (IRAQ); GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



170 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Negotiations in Zimbabwe Fail to Break Political Crisis 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, May 5 

 BODY:
At the end of an afternoon of whirlwind diplomacy in Zimbabwe today, three of Africa's most powerful presidents failed to break a stalemate between President Robert Mugabe and his leading opponents that has pushed the country to the brink of economic collapse.
 The visit to Zimbabwe by Presidents Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria and Bakili Muluzi of Malawi had been the focus of intense speculation by news organizations. The meeting had raised hopes across southern Africa for the start of a peaceful resolution to Zimbabwe's worst crisis since the end of white-minority rule more than two decades ago. 
 Zimbabwe has been ravaged by soaring inflation and unemployment, shortages of food and fuel, and cycles of state-sponsored violence against those thought to be government opponents. Two weeks ago, the tensions gave way to mixed hope and confusion when Mr. Mugabe, 79, made veiled comments to news organizations that he could be ready to retire, ending 23 years in power. 
As they traveled back and forth across Harare today, the three visiting heads of state appeared beaming, sometimes arm in arm, presenting a formidable image of African unity.
But they were careful to avoid any public talk of a change in leadership in Zimbabwe. Their aides emphasized that the high-profile visit was aimed only at helping to mediate the differences between Mr. Mugabe and the leading opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change, or M.D.C. But, after hours of meetings with Mr. Mugabe and the opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, there was little sign of concrete progress.
Mr. Mugabe has said he will only agree to meet with the opposition leaders on condition that they drop a lawsuit challenging the legitimacy of presidential elections last year in which Mr. Mugabe narrowly defeated Mr. Tsvangirai. 
The opposition party, international human rights groups, and several foreign governments, including the United States, have charged that the elections were marred by fraud and intimidation.
Political analysts speculate that the current Mugabe government needs international recognition in order to shield the president from future prosecution for human rights violations.
"I am the president of this country and I have legitimacy," Mr. Mugabe said at a news conference in Harare today. "The M.D.C. doesn't recognize me, that's the issue. If they do, that means now the M.D.C.'s court challenge has to be withdrawn and we can start talking." 
Meanwhile, Mr. Tsvangirai said he would be willing to meet with Mr. Mugabe if the government disbanded militias that have been accused of systematic brutality against opposition supporters and restored the rule of law. But it appeared that Mr. Tsvangirai refused today to agree to drop the lawsuit.
"The underlying issue is that the M.D.C. and Zanu-PF must meet," Mr. Tsvangirai said, referring to the ruling Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front, Mr. Mugabe's party. "The country is in a dire state."
Mr. Obasanjo put a positive spin on the talks, calling the issue of how the election was conducted "a little point we can work out.
"On both sides we saw one common factor," he added, "earnestness for negotiations to be resumed." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (85%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (85%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); ETHICS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); TRENDS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (62%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ETHICS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (79%); THABO MBEKI (73%) THOMPSON, GINGER; MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES); MBEKI, THABO (PRES); OBASANJO, OLUSEGUN (PRES); MULUZI, BAKILI (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE (99%); MALAWI (94%); NIGERIA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE; SOUTH AFRICA; NIGERIA; MALAWI

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



171 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Struggling Amtrak Is Dealing With New Woe, Loss of Riders 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 5 

 BODY:
As Amtrak tries to persuade Congress to finance a comprehensive plan to return to a state of good physical repair and fiscal stability over the next five years, it faces a short-term problem: it is losing riders.
 The railroad is suffering through a national recession that has hit the travel sector especially hard. For the first half of its current fiscal year, ending March 31, ridership was 11.37 million, down from 11.46 million for the same period a year earlier. 
 Worries over terrorism and the desire of businesses to reduce their travel expenses have been compounded by maintenance problems on its flagship Acela Express trains and scattered equipment and track problems elsewhere that have also combined to hold down ridership. 
Like the airlines, Amtrak is cutting prices to win business, and thus taking in less revenue per passenger-mile than it used to. Ticket revenues were down 10 percent in the first half of the fiscal year. Even in March, when the threat of snow produced a minor jump in ridership, ticket revenue was down 12 percent.
David Gunn, the railroad president, said that while the shaky business climate was cutting into Amtrak's ridership it was not the only reason for the decrease in passengers. 
"I know if the air-conditioning doesn't work and the trains are late and the food is awful and the employees are rude, that's a big impact," Mr. Gunn said, and thus improving the physical state of the railroad would increase its ridership, long-term. 
The Bush administration favors more radical action, including allowing private companies to bid to operate trains. It promises a detailed proposal in the next few weeks. 
Mr. Gunn, brought in last year to try to rescue the ailing railroad, has tried a variety of improvements to hold down costs and increase ridership. For example, Amtrak has just added four trips on the line that runs to Springfield, Mass., from New Haven, but it did so without adding equipment or employees. 
"We pay for eight-hour days but we weren't getting eight hours of work," he said.
The reason was poor scheduling, he said, and the new schedule would make it possible for more commuters to use the line, raising revenue. 
Amtrak has also begun rotating its menus on cross-country trains so long-distance travelers do not face the same choices every day. And the five-year plan has a goal of reducing breakdowns, which would make more equipment available, enabling the railroad to meet demand for sleepers, for example.
Mr. Gunn also said there were signs that employees had the right attitude.
"The vast majority try hard," he said. "They make up for a lot of failings in the equipment."
Amtrak has also been cutting its work force. By October of last year, it had cut 787 management and union positions, and cuts have continued since then.
The railroad is still plagued by equipment problems. The Acela Express, which the previous management had said would lift Amtrak into self-sufficiency, is a continuing headache. About 25 trains were canceled in March, forcing the railroad to substitute Metroliner trains for which passengers pay a lower fare, thus reducing Amtrak's revenues from those runs.
In his five-year plan, Mr. Gunn proposed annual spending at roughly the level of the past few years, but all of it would come from the federal government. Before last year, much of it was borrowed on the commercial market, but Amtrak no longer has access to those markets, and now has debt of $4.8 billion. The administration wants to provide Amtrak $900 million for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, about half the amount in Amtrak's five-year plan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); TRAINS (90%); SPORTS REVENUES (88%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); LABOR FORCE (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); TERRORISM (70%); AIRLINES (69%) RAILROADS; TERRORISM; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

PERSON: CHRISTIE HEFNER (89%) WALD, MATTHEW L; GUNN, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



172 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
USA Interactive Is Acquiring LendingTree in Stock Deal

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Barry Diller wants to help you find a date, through Match.com. He will find you a show, through Ticketmaster. If things work out, he will help you book your honeymoon, through Expedia. Now he wants to help you buy a house.
 Yesterday, USA Interactive, the online commerce conglomerate Mr. Diller controls, agreed to buy LendingTree, the operator of a leading home loan Web site, for $734 million in stock. LendingTree is the largest site that lets people compare various mortgage loans, and it runs a second, smaller service that helps people find local real estate brokers who agree to work at a discount. 
 USA Interactive has been eagerly buying Internet companies since it sold its entertainment assets last year to Vivendi Universal. Over the last year, it bought full control of three companies in which it already had partial ownership -- Ticketmaster, Expedia and Hotels.com. It also bought Entertainment Publications, a publisher of local coupon books.
"We have said many times that we were eager to expand in financial services and in real estate," Mr. Diller said yesterday in an interview. "We looked at every company in those areas that was not nailed down, and LendingTree is the one company we wanted to pursue."
Mr. Diller said that USA would try to buy other companies in both real estate and finance to create cross-marketing opportunities with LendingTree. It already hopes to market LendingTree's services through its Citysearch site, which offers local entertainment and merchant listings.
"USAI is the one company that is searching through the leftover of the Internet boom to find the working, profitable gems with good management teams," said Lanny Baker, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney. He said the price that USA was paying was consistent with the value of similar Internet companies.
Helping people compare mortgages online was once seen as a natural application for the Internet. As many as 10 companies entered that field, start-ups as well as big players like Microsoft and Intuit, the maker of Quicken software.
Nearly all of the others have withdrawn. Last year, LendingTree, based in Charlotte, N.C., helped arrange $22 billion worth of loans, which represented 0.7 percent of the overall mortgage market. The company estimates that 5 percent to 10 percent of all loans were applied for online, but most involved sites run by single lenders like banks and specialized online lenders like E-Loan.
Many of the original loan comparison sites simply listed lenders and their posted interest rates. LendingTree had what some analysts thought was a cumbersome business model, but the model seems to work well for borrowers and lenders. 
To use LendingTree, customers fill out a complete loan application. LendingTree obtains a credit report on the applicant and then submits the application to 4 of its 200 participating lenders -- those that express interest in the particular attributes of the borrower.
The lenders evaluate the application and if they are interested in making the loan, they send the prospective borrower the interest rates and fees they will offer.
While borrowers can choose from only four lenders, not the hundreds that had been listed on the other mortgage sites, the offers are from lenders who actually want to do business with them. And because the lenders make offers based on individual applications, their rates may be lower than their posted prices.
The lenders, meanwhile, get access to applicants who meet their standards. LendingTree charges lenders $10 for each application sent and $500 for each loan that is closed. Borrowers pay nothing.
Mr. Diller said he had been trying to convince LendingTree to sell to him for more than a year, but reached an agreement only in recent weeks. The deal comes as Internet stocks in general, and those of both USA Interactive and LendingTree, have been on the rise.
At the same time, some investors have been concerned that LendingTree's surging results would be unsustainable after the boom in mortgage refinancing falls off when rates start to rise. LendingTree asserts that it will do even better after the refinancing boom ends because lenders will have a greater need to find the qualified borrowers that LendingTree can provide.
Based on the Friday closing price of USA Interactive stock, the deal values LendingTree at $21.70 a share. That represents a 48 percent premium to LendingTree's closing price on Friday. USA's shares fell 86 cents yesterday, to $34.10. LendingTree's increased $6.03, to $20.72.

GRAPHIC: Photos: USA Interactive, led by Barry Diller, left, is buying LendingTree for $734 million in stock. At right are Thomas J. Reddin, LendingTree president; Keith B. Hall, chief financial officer; and Douglas R. Lebda, chief executive. (Photographs by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); MISC PRINT PUBLISHING (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE SOFTWARE (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%) HOUSING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MORTGAGES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (86%); TREE.COM INC (85%); VIVENDI (70%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (58%); HOTELS.COM LP (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); INTUIT INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: USA INTERACTIVE; LENDING TREE INC 

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (86%); TREE (NASDAQ) (85%); VIV (PAR) (70%); VIV (BIT) (70%); INTU (NASDAQ) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (86%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (91%) HANSELL, SAUL; DILLER, BARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



173 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Taxed to Our Limit 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael Bloomberg and legislative leaders have earned a moment to pat themselves on the back after devising a plan to get the city and state through this year's disastrous fiscal crisis. The combination of income taxes for wealthier New Yorkers and sales taxes for everybody is the only politically workable route out of this year's $12 billion financial hole for the state and $3.8 billion for the city. Still, this is no time to break open the Champagne. If this package becomes law, the state and city will have pushed taxes up about as far as they can go, and there is another budget gap looming next year. 
 Gov. George Pataki is still threatening to veto the current package, a stance that increasingly looks like a play to the anti-tax conservatives in Washington. He needs to focus on the needs of his own state and forget the cheering from those in Washington, who do not have to witness the effects of local education cuts or property tax increases. Yet if the governor persists, the Assembly and Senate will have to override his vetoes. 
 Once this year's budget is done, New Yorkers can breathe easier about their schools and hospitals, but they can also be counted on to complain about being overtaxed. Next April those making over $100,000 will pay extra state and city income taxes. Consumers will be hit with a sales tax increase every time they step up to the cash register. For city residents, that is all on top of an earlier property tax increase of 18.5 percent, and the rise in subway and bus fares to $2 a ride. The sales tax increase is scheduled to end in two years, and the added income tax in three. But enough is enough.
The higher taxes make boththe city and the state less competitive for business and even tourism. Governor Pataki is right that high taxes discourage economic growth -- he simply forgot that underfinanced schools, crippled police departments and inadequate hospitals can have an even more devastating effect. But the Legislature cannot keep nudging rates toward the stratosphere forever. And since next year is an election year, it is unlikely that officials will be willing to visit tax increases again even if they make financial sense. 
Everyone in Albany knows that one of the reasons the budget is in such a mess this year is because Mr. Pataki pretended there was no financial crisis coming when he was running for re-election in 2002. It would be nice to think he had learned a lesson. Certainly the mayor and the Legislature need to start thinking now about how to balance next year's budget. The economy is not showing signs it will rebound fast enough to bridge the next gap. The state is borrowing $4.2 billion to cover running expenses -- a fiscal mortal sin that is bound to cause trouble when some of those expenses come up again. If they dodge the bullet this year, New York officials will have to start talking instantly about how to handle the one coming in 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); VETO (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); SALES TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; ELECTION ISSUES; VETOES (US); ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



174 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Overhaul Medicare by Enlarging Private Health Plan Role Is Criticized 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 5 

 BODY:
Congressional efforts to revamp Medicare by expanding the role of private health plans have been immensely complicated by new data suggesting that such plans would not save money and could substantially increase Medicare costs.
 Republicans in Congress said last week that they had accepted President Bush's proposal to encourage the development of private health plans known as preferred provider organizations, which steer patients to certain doctors and hospitals. Competition among private plans can slow the growth of Medicare, they said. 
 But, federal officials and health policy experts say, new evidence shows that the private plans pay doctors and hospitals more than Medicare pays, so they would probably not save money any time soon. 
Influential lawmakers are starting to sift through the evidence, which has the potential to reshape the debate over the future of Medicare.
The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, a nonpartisan federal advisory panel, recently had a study done comparing fees paid by Medicare and private health plans. Zachary Dyckman, the economist who did the study, collected data from 33 health plans of 31 million people.
In an interview today, Mr. Dyckman said he had found that "private health plan fees are about 15 percent higher than Medicare fees."
Paul B. Ginsburg, president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a private group that monitors trends in health care markets around the country, found the same pattern, and he said it was becoming more prevalent.
"In most areas of the country payment rates for hospitals and physicians that are negotiated by private plans are higher than those paid by the Medicare fee-for-service program," Mr. Ginsburg said.
Despite such findings, Bush administration officials and Republican members of Congress said the private plans could improve the quality of care.
Representative Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of Connecticut, said Republicans had decided to give private plans a major role, not just in administering pharmaceutical benefits under Medicare, but in coordinating care for those with chronic conditions like asthma, diabetes and heart disease.
"I am extremely interested in chronic care, chronic disease management, enabling seniors to have more access to coordinated care," said Mrs. Johnson, chairwoman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health. "A prescription drug bill will result in overmedication of seniors, at great cost physically and monetarily, if we don't coordinate care for people with multiple chronic conditions. That's why we've decided to include preferred provider organizations. They're much more capable of managing care than a fee-for-service plan."
Preferred provider organizations have become popular in the commercial market. They serve 52 percent of workers with private health insurance, up from 38 percent in 1999.
A preferred provider organization typically has a network of doctors. Patients can visit any doctors in the network, usually without seeing a primary care doctor, or gatekeeper, and for an extra charge they may see doctors outside the network.
Mr. Dyckman said that such private plans usually had to pay doctors more than Medicare to get enough physicians to participate in their networks.
Alissa Fox, policy director for the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, agreed. "Medicare payments are lower than what we generally pay in our private business," Ms. Fox said. Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans provide coverage to 85 million Americans.
The federal government sets the level of Medicare payments to doctors and hospitals by statutes and regulations. By contrast, private plans set rates through negotiations with health care providers.
Hospital mergers have enhanced the bargaining power of many hospitals, just as doctors have increased their leverage by joining in large groups. Hospitals with reputations for excellence and medical groups representing many doctors in a specialty have successfully demanded higher payments, even as consumers and purchasers of care have demanded access to such providers.
"Boston, Cleveland, Greenville, S.C., Little Rock, Ark., and Seattle have private rates that are much higher than Medicare rates," Mr. Ginsburg said. "Private payments range from 120 percent to 180 percent of Medicare physician payments in Little Rock, and from 100 percent to 150 percent in Boston."
In rural areas, Mr. Ginsburg added, private health plans often pay far more than Medicare. In many of those areas, he said, there is little competition among health care providers, so private plans have difficulty obtaining discounts.
Administration officials often complain that under Medicare, the government sets prices for thousands of goods and services, ranging from wheelchairs to cardiac bypass surgery. Several Senate Republicans said they wanted to give private health plans a larger role in Medicare, but feared that this approach could lead to higher costs.
To hold down costs, Senate Republicans said, they are considering legislation to authorize private health plans to follow fee schedules used in the traditional Medicare program. The maximum prices paid by private health plans would be determined not by market forces, but by federal rules, at least for several years.
Unveiling his "framework to modernize and improve Medicare" in March, President Bush said he wanted to "introduce private-sector innovation and competition to the Medicare system, to help keep costs reasonable" and to ensure high-quality care. But Mr. Dyckman and Mr. Ginsburg said they doubted that the private plans would save much money because such plans paid higher rates to doctors and hospitals than Medicare pays in most markets.
In June 2000 and again in June 2002, the House of Representatives passed Republican bills to add prescription drug benefits to Medicare, the federal program for 40 million people who are elderly or disabled.
Under the legislation, Medicare would pay subsidies to insurance companies to induce them to sell a product that does not now exist: insurance covering prescription drugcosts and nothing else.
Bush administration officials said they now wanted more fundamental changes in the structure of Medicare. Stand-alone drug coverage "does not exist in nature" and would probably not work in practice, said Thomas A. Scully, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
House Republican leaders said they had tentatively decided to combine their Medicare legislation with a separate bill limiting the damages that could be awarded in medical malpractice lawsuits.
The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the malpractice bill would save the federal government $14.9 billion over 10 years, mainly by reducing what Medicare and Medicaid spend on malpractice insurance premiums for doctors and hospitals.
The American Medical Association and some House Republicans said the savings could be used to pay higher fees to doctors treating Medicare patients. Medicare officials said that if Congress took no action, doctors' Medicare fees would be automatically cut about 4 percent next year, under a statutory formula.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Debating Private Plans In Medicare"Private health plans usually pay doctors and hospitals more than Medicare pays, raising questions about whether greater use of private plans would save money for the program. Average fees of private health plans exceed Medicare fees for doctors by the following: ALL SERVICES: 15%Surgery: 26Various medical and diagnostic services: 23Radiology: 19Hospital and nursing home visits and consultations: 9Laboratory and pathology services: 5Office visits: 3 (Source: Medicare Payment Advisory Commission and Dyckman & Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (96%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); DIABETES (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (62%); HEART DISEASE (61%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; MEDICARE; PRIVATIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: ;MEDICARE PAYMENT ADVISORY COMMISSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



175 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: POSTWAR RULE; 
OPPOSITION GROUPS TO HELP TO CREATE ASSEMBLY IN IRAQ

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 5 

 BODY:
The main Iraqi opposition groups have agreed to help put together a national assembly of more than 350 deputies that would meet this month to name an interim executive council or prime minister to run the country.
 Representatives of the opposition groups, which worked with the Bush administration for Saddam Hussein's downfall, have been meeting behind closed doors at the Republican Palace, the American headquarters for the enormous task of rebuilding Iraq. 
 The outline of an agreement for a new government was described by opposition leaders in interviews over the last two days. In addition, Jay Garner, the former lieutenant general charged with administering Iraq, confirmed significant progress on the political front. 
"Next week, or by the second weekend in May, you'll see the beginning of a nucleus of a temporary Iraqi government, a government with an Iraqi face on it that is totally dealing with the coalition," he said during a visit to Basra, in the south. 
The goal of the former opposition groups is to create a provisional national assembly with two-thirds of the delegates chosen from inside Iraq, officials said. But it is the exiles and their allies among the country's Kurdish minority who are organizing the selection process.
"It doesn't have to be perfect, all it has to be is representative," an American official said today, adding, "The key word is interim." An elected government would be expected to follow in one to two years, officials said.
While the heads of the opposition groups were meeting, Ahmad Chalabi, the leader of the Iraqi National Congress, formerly the opposition coalition, who has garnered the strongest support from Washington, went on the offensive. In an interview today, he said his supporters had seized as much as 60 tons of documents from the Baath Party and Iraqi secret police and intelligence services. The files document Mr. Hussein's relationship with Arab leaders and foreign governments, he said. 
Armed with this incendiary material in a region where under-the-table payoffs to buy protection, loyalty or silence are the seamy side of political life, Mr. Chalabi and his aides have been sending out pointed warnings -- that he can give as good as he has been getting -- to Arab leaders who have dismissed him as a lackey financed by the Central Intelligence Agency, or as an accused embezzler from the bank he ran in Jordan during the 1980's.
When Abu Dhabi television asked Mr. Chalabi last week to respond to reports that he was under arrest by the United States Central Command for embezzlement, Mr. Chalabi went on the air to respond. He brought files he said were taken from the Iraqi secret police. He asserted that they showed that a number of reporters for Al Jazeera television, the satellite channel that broadcast the accusation that he was under arrest, were working for Iraqi intelligence.
"We will not allow this channel to continue its destructive work, which might lead to civil war in Iraq, through their lies and the spreading of rumors, because rumors are worse than killing," Mr. Chalabi said. On the air, he held up documents and read from them, saying they were Iraqi intelligence reports on the successful recruitment of Al Jazeera journalists as informants.
Al Jazeera has yet to respond to the charges.
But current politics was the focus today. Teams drawn from the ranks of the former Iraqi opposition will be dispatched in coming days to each of Iraq's 28 provinces to invite local leaders to pick deputies from among tribal, professional and religious ranks and send them immediately to Baghdad to convene the assembly.
While some Iraqis involved in the negotiations have spoken of creating a prime minister's post, General Garner indicated that the more likely outcome is a leadership council consisting of well-known opposition figures like Mr. Chalabi, Ayad Allawi of the Iraqi National Accord, the Kurdish leaders Massoud Barzani and Jalal Talabani, and Abdul Aziz al-Hakim of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq. Christians and other Sunni Muslims might also be added, he said.
General Garner said, "The five opposition leaders have begun having meetings, and they are going to bring in leaders from inside Iraq and see if we can't form a nucleus of leadership as we enter into June."
The accelerated pace of efforts to put an interim Iraqi government in place reflects a growing recognition by American officials that they have been unable to create a nimble civil administration. They say an Iraqi government supported and assisted by the United States might better cope with mounting anger and frustration over the slow pace of reconstruction, rampant fuel and gasoline shortages, economic paralysis, lawlessness and the threat posed by the remnants of Baath Party cells salted throughout the country's institutions.
"Things are not going so well if you go and listen to the people," said Adel Abdel-Mahdi, who represents Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim, the Supreme Council's spiritual leader and a Shiite cleric who is expected to return from Iran this week to visit Basra and the Shiite shrine in Najaf. "Security is getting worse, there are no public services and there are a lot of complaints."
Mr. Abdel-Mahdi said frustration was rising with General Garner's administration, its inability to make decisions and its internal debates over whether to fully remove Mr. Hussein's Baath Party structure.
"They are free," he said, referring to thousands of Baath Party loyalists of Mr. Hussein. "They are armed, but we are not armed and they know where our houses and offices are." Of the Americans, he said, "I am afraid" they are trying to keep some Baathists around "to frighten us."
United States officials said today that Izzat Ibrahim al-Dhouri, who served as Mr. Hussein's vice president and as vice chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council, was negotiating his surrender through intermediaries. The surrender of Mr. Dhouri, a stalwart of the Baath Party and of Mr. Hussein's inner circle, would be a significant blow to diehard Hussein supporters hoping for a return of the Baath leadership. 
One of Mr. Hussein's top bio-weapons experts, Huda Salih Mahdi Ammash, was captured on Sunday, American officials announced. She was the American educated scientist known as "Mrs. Anthrax" and was 53rd on the list of the 55 most wanted. 
One of Mr. Chalabi's targets is King Abdullah II of Jordan, who has refused to drop the embezzlement charges lodged against Mr. Chalabi after the failure of Petra Bank, which he managed.
In a remarkable display of how much loyalty Mr. Chalabi commands among some Americans, one Pentagon official opened his laptop computer to display a photograph of Mr. Chalabi and King Abdullah to refute the recent statements by the king that he had never met Mr. Chalabi.
"Does that look like they have never met?" the official asked.
Mr. Chalabi's political aides and advisers, a number of American defense officials among them, are talking about producing files that show how the royal household in Jordan allegedly profited secretly and handsomely on transactions with Mr. Hussein and his family members, an assertion that has been made in the past about a number of Arab governments but never proved.
Though Mr. Chalabi has yet to make any of the files public, he has allowed Defense Intelligence Agency officers to begin examining them. 
Simply by discussing their existence and their potential for scandal in dozens of capitals, Mr. Chalabi and his aides appeared to be flexing their political muscles as they edge closer to power in Iraq in the wake of Mr. Hussein's removal.
To the suggestion that he should be mending his fences with Arab leaders in the region, Mr. Chalabi bristled and said, "They should mend their ways."
"We are a devastated country," he said. "We have fought their wars," and "those countries never stood up for the Iraqi people's human rights" when they were being repressed by the Hussein government.
"We have some issues with those people who supported Saddam Hussein and tried their damnedest to dissuade the United States from going to war," he said.
In the interview, Mr. Chalabi said Iraq would need a larger production quota in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and an immediate international debtor conference to calculate the country's obligations, cancel sanctions and prepare for a huge investment program.
He said that he did not have a specific proposal yet for a debtor conference on Iraq but asserted that there was "moral and financial weight" behind the proposition that Iraq, now free of Mr. Hussein, deserves enormous concessions from the oil-producing nations and from the dozens of countries that hold hundreds of billions of dollars in Iraqi debts or claims for reparations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The leader of the Iraqi National Congress, Ahmad Chalabi, second from right, met in Baghdad yesterday with sheiks from the Diwaniya, Iraq, area. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMBEZZLEMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ARRESTS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ETHICS (66%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (63%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; KURDS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; EMBEZZLEMENT; ROYAL FAMILY; ETHICS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ;AL JAZEERA (TELEVISION NETWORK) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) TYLER, PATRICK E; GARNER, JAY; CHALABI, AHMAD; HUSSEIN, SADDAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%) IRAQ; JORDAN

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



176 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: BUDGETS IN CRISIS: NEW YORK CITY; 
Council Grudgingly Approves Raising Sales and Income Taxes to Help Balance the Budget

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
The City Council voted overwhelmingly but grudgingly yesterday for a plan that would help the city balance its budget by raising sales taxes slightly and increasing income taxes on many residents.
 The Council voted 46 to 3 to approve a budget deal that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg reached last week with the leaders of the State Legislature, who took the rare step of passing a budget over the objections of Gov. George E. Pataki. The mayor had hoped to win state approval for a tax on commuters, but agreed instead to a plan that would let him raise taxes on his own constituents by roughly $700 million for the next fiscal year, which begins July 1. 
 The Council approved the deal after several of its members said how much they disliked it. Peter Vallone Jr., a Queens councilman, complained that the city was being "forced to accept crumbs from the cake that we baked." Michael Nelson, a Brooklyn councilman, expressed it this way: "It's as pleasant as telling your wife that she doesn't look good in a dress that she just bought, and you have 10 minutes to get to a wedding in another borough." 
Both men voted for the package. 
Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker, said that the package was difficult to consider, but approving it was the responsible thing to do. And many of the 46 Council Democrats who voted for the measure praised not only Sheldon Silver, the Democratic Assembly speaker, but also Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader of the State Senate.
"I want to say something that I never thought I'd say in my entire life," said Bill de Blasio, a Brooklyn councilman. "God Bless Joe Bruno." 
The plan includes an income tax surcharge beginning this year, to 4.25 percent from the current 3.648 percent, on single people earning more than $100,000 and on married couples earning more than $150,000. The tax rate will go to 4.45 percent for all residents with taxable incomes above $500,000.
The city sales tax would be increased 1-eighth of one percent. City officials are expected to set June 1 for the higher sales tax to take effect..
Those new city taxes would be on top of increases in the state income tax and sales tax, and they would come after the mayor and the City Council raised property tax rates in November by 18.5 percent. The sales tax increase is to be phased out after two years, and the income tax surcharge after three. 
With both the city and the state facing their worst fiscal crises in decades, officials said the tax increases were needed to stave off draconian service cuts that many feared would take the city back to the dismal conditions of the 1970s.
It was a budget deal that turned both city and state politics upside down. It pitted the Republican mayor of New York, who argued that service cuts would be more economically devastating than tax increases, against the Republican governor of New York, who argued the opposite. It led the Republican-controlled State Senate to join forces with the Democratic-controlled State Assembly to rise up against the governor's proposed budget cuts. And it drove a further wedge between Mayor Bloomberg and his fellow Republicans on the City Council, all three of whom voted against the deal.
One of those Council members, Andrew J. Lanza, said he did not see why the city should be grateful to Albany for winning permission to tax itself. "This reminds me of the guy who walks into a bar and calls for a round of drinks, and then presents you with the bill," he said.
Because the city can take few actions on its own without state legislation, the city's budget relief package had to be hammered out with state officials. The Council's vote yesterday asking the Legislature to pass laws allowing the city to raise its own taxes was a necessary formality. But Gov. George E. Pataki said yesterday he has not decided whether to veto the city sales tax increase.
After the Council passed the request, the State Assembly approved the package last night. The State Senate is expected to do so today.
Even with the new taxes, the city is still looking to lay off nearly 4,500 people, close eight firehouses and shut two zoos. But officials said that the harsher cuts in Mayor Bloomberg's contingency plan, which would have laid off 10,000 more workers, could be avoided.
William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, said that while the tax increases would not help the city's economy, they were better than the alternative. "I think it would have been worse for the city if you would have had to lay off thousands of additional people, if you'd had to scale back services more," he said. 
Yesterday, Mayor Bloomberg appeared twice in public with Governor Pataki and the two men were friendly before the cameras. But there some awkward moments. When the two men appeared in Midtown to announce that Pfizer Inc. would create 2,000 jobs in the city, the chief executive of Pfizer, Hank McKinnell, was asked what he thought about taxes versus cuts.
As the mayor and the governor both blushed, Mr. McKinnell spoke about quality of life and noted that if you are paying taxes, it means that you are earning income. Then Governor Pataki politely edged him away from the microphone, saying: "I don't want to engage in a debate. But I think one of the most important things that Hank said, is we're all very pleased about today's announcement." 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 6 about a legislative budget package under which the taxes of New York City residents would go up misstated the proposed increases in the state and city sales taxes. (One or both of those figures were also misstated in articles on May 3, 4 and 5.) They are one-fourth of 1 percentage point for the state one-eighth of 1 percentage point for the city -- not one-fourth of 1 percent and one-eighth of 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE BOTTOM LINE: Lighter Wallets for City Taxpayers"Income tax surcharges passed by the city yesterday and the state Legislature last week would, if enacted as expected, raise the taxes of single people earning more than $100,000 a year and married people earning more than $150,000. Here are some examples. Chart lists examples of how income tax surcharges would effect select categories of taxpayers.(Source: State Comptrollers Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); APPROVALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



177 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 An article on Saturday about efforts by President Bush to refocus the nation on his economic agenda misstated several words in his remarks about the latest unemployment figure and his call for a tax cut. He said, "That 6 percent number should say loud and clear to members of both political parties in the United States Congress, we need robust tax relief so our fellow citizens can find a job" -- not "so people can find work."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); POLITICS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (83%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (53%) TAXATION; CORRECTION STORIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003 



178 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: $25 AND UNDER; 
On Second Avenue, a Bay State Fish House

BYLINE:  By Eric Asimov 

 BODY:
GIVEN the downward trajectory of the economy, it was a good bet that some restaurateur would reverse the usual strategy of starting out in a low-cost neighborhood like the East Village and moving on up from there. Sure enough, Jimmy Bradley and Danny Abrams, who own the Red Cat in Chelsea and the Harrison in TriBeCa, have now planted their flag in the East Village, where they opened the Mermaid Inn a little more than a month ago. 
 At their first two restaurants they perfectly calibrated the food, atmosphere and attitude to the neighborhoods. At the Mermaid they have succeeded again, with a dead-on rendition of a casual fish shack, where the simple preparations and small, intelligent wine list meet all the style and attitude requirements of this urban cove. 
 The wine list is most notable for pricing that is almost absurdly reasonable. It is a boon for the spirit to find a crisp yet deep Savennieres from Chateau de Varennes for $25, to say nothing of a good red St.-Aubin from Henri Prudhon for $28 and even a premiere cru Meursault from Jean-Marc Morey for $46. You might not enter a fish shack looking for Champagne, but the opportunity to commit to a bottle (Paul Laurent, $34) with some superb oysters ($10 a half-dozen) is an immediate joy. It is especially pleasing to contrast the quiet purity of the West Coast oyster with the more full-bodied pungency of the East Coast variety.
In Mermaid's first month, only the front room was open, with maybe two dozen seats and a bar. The room, with weathered beams, old marine charts, renderings of the youthful John F. and Jacqueline Kennedy and an ancient menu from Locke-Ober, was packed nightly. A larger rear room has now opened, thankfully easing the crowding, but the acoustics in the room, with its high-timbered ceiling and brick walls, are dreadful. You can barely hear the person across from you.
You could do worse than retreat into dinner. Clam fritters ($8) are puffed up to the size of tennis balls, yet extremely clammy, and are delicious with a tangy lemon remoulade. Fried oysters ($9) are simple and satisfying, as is a classic shrimp cocktail ($10) that transcends the usual chilled and rubbery offerings. Roasted mussels ($8), served with drawn butter, are likewise a lesson that familiar does not have to mean dull: these are sweet, tender and delectable. 
The small menu does have some soft spots. On first bite, the fish chowder ($6) is smoky and peppery, but as you get halfway through the bowl the bacon flavor becomes wearying. Blue crab and baby spinach dip ($12) is a little heavy on the sour cream for my taste, and baked seafood imperial ($9), topped with plenty of cream and bread crumbs and served in a big scallop shell, has a 1950's, "Let's Entertain!" feel to it. But barbecued shrimp ($9), a special one evening, had a peppery New Orleans edge, and a squirt of lemon teased out the flavor from crisp sardines ($9).
Mr. Bradley and the executive chef, Michael Price, smartly keep the main courses simple, while paying close attention to seasoning. Seared scallops ($17) benefit merely from being well salted and peppered; the horseradish-bacon beurre blanc does the rest. Dorade royale ($20), stuffed with herbs and served whole, is moist and flavorful, and though a crisp skate ($14), served on a glossy brioche bun with peppers and onions, is not really sandwich material, it is perfectly cooked. Even a grilled salmon fillet ($16) rose above boredom, gaining flavor from a mustard glaze. 
At the Harrison, Mr. Bradley perfected a crunchy-savory formula for French fries. Here, he has maintained the high standard while taking them in an Eastern Shore direction, flavoring them with Old Bay seasoning. They are an essential side.
For some reason, Mermaid has decided not to offer a dessert menu. Perhaps it is just as well, though I imagine a good blueberry pie or strawberry shortcake would fit the shore theme. Instead, the kitchen sends out a free demitasse of chocolate or butterscotch pudding. It is just the right amount, and I have never left the table unsatisfied.

The Mermaid Inn
96 Second Avenue near Fifth Street, East Village, (212) 674-5870.
BEST DISHES -- Raw oysters, clam fritters, fried oysters, shrimp cocktail, roasted mussels, barbecued shrimp, sardines, seared scallops, grilled dorade royale, crisp skate, Old Bay fries.
PRICE RANGE -- Appetizers, $6 to $12; main courses, $14 to $21.
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
HOURS -- Monday through Saturday, 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. Closed Sunday. Reservations not accepted.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Everything is on one level. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%) RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MERMAID INN (NYC RESTAURANT) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



179 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Filming the Dark Side Of Capitalism in China 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 6 

 BODY:
Li Yang has spent most of the past decade and a half in self-imposed exile in Germany, and it must have been there, certainly not in the unadventurous filmmaking climate of today's China, that he decided to treat compromise as a dirty word.
 His first feature film, "Blind Shaft," spares nobody in its devastating portrait of murderous grifters in the poor coal mining region of northwest China. It skewers mine owners, who returned the favor by hounding him with security agents and threatening him at gunpoint when he filmed on location. 
 It jabs at the hypocrisy of the Communist government with thinly veiled barbs, ensuring that the film will enrage Chinese censors. 
"Blind Shaft," which is being shown at the TriBeCa Film Festival Wednesday and Thursday, will probably never make it beyond art houses in the West and will certainly not be released in China. But the film offers an unleavened look at the underside of Chinese-style capitalism that was previously available only in print.
"Many of the films made in China today are like government press conferences: they do not reveal anything about the real situation," Mr. Li said in an interview here on Monday. "People compromise a little to get a license, and compromise a little to get an audience, and before too long there isn't much left."
His film, adapted from the novel "Sacred Wood" by Liu Qingbang, is a psychological thriller that does not claim to be based on real incidents. But it is based on the misanthropic culture of China's coal mining industry, where death is so prosaic that it loses its power to shock. By official count more than 5,000 miners die every year in explosions, shaft collapses and floods. Many more deaths go unreported by private mine owners who operate without proper licenses or safety equipment.
Mr. Li, 43, said the setting struck him as an ideal metaphor for what he viewed as the loss of values in today's China. He left his country in 1987 to study in Germany and was trained in Cologne as a documentary filmmaker. On his return trips, he said, he was impressed by the rapid pace of economic growth but dismayed by what he saw as China's increasing inhumanity.
"Some people now have mafia values," he said. "They can't find a normal way to make money. Violence pays."
Mr. Li's shaggy hair and provocative speech are not out of place in Beijing, which has an irreverent side despite the heavy hand of the government. He studied here and considers it a second home. But he is also a misfit. He said he had grown uncomfortable with the spread of bourgeois values among the city's once thriving counterculture. For example, he said, city dwellers benefiting from the new economy tend to look down on the migrant workers from the countryside who clean their homes and serve their food.
"Blind Shaft" portrays the cutthroat culture of an anonymous mining town, where what limited wealth there is goes to those who treat death with the greatest detachment. 
The film opens as two itinerant swindlers, Song Jinming (Li Yixiang) and Tang Zhaoyang (Wang Shuangbao) lure a hapless fellow migrant, whom they persuade to pretend that he is Tang's brother, to join them for a gig at an illegal mine. In a darkened shaft they beat him to death and then stage a roof collapse to make the killing look like a routine accident.
The dark brilliance of the murder is quickly apparent when the mine owner schemes to avoid an investigation. After Tang fakes an emotional reaction to the supposed loss of his brother, the owner comes up with a $4,000 death payment and gives it to Tang and Song, no questions asked, provided the two leave town without demanding an official inquiry.
At a local labor market Tang and Song spot their next target, a 16-year-old, doe-eyed boy named Yuan Fengming (Wang Baoqiang). While seeking employment, they pretend that he is Song's nephew.
As they negotiate their next grift, a portly mine owner warns them caustically that safety is their own responsibility. "China lacks everything," the mine owner says. "The only thing it doesn't lack is people." He takes them on but demands that they work for a period without pay or death benefits until they prove themselves worthy.
Much of the film details the three men's interactions as they work together during this trial period, with Tang, Song and Yuan acting like a family of a sort. The older men even take Yuan to the local whorehouse out of a warped filial sense that they should make him a man before they kill him. All this plays on Tang's and Song's emotions, however hardened, and sets up a twist at the end.
The film was shot in dusty mining towns in Hebei and Shanxi provinces. The cast and crew were frequently forced to move when mine owners threatened them to avoid exposure, Mr. Li said. Most of the actors are first-time performers, recruited locally.
Mr. Li has succeeded in making a movie that provides an uncompromising look at China's social problems, though he has paid a price. Unless the film is widely pirated, very few mainland Chinese will see it. "It's a huge regret," he said. "But the fact is that you can't make a real movie about China if you worry too much about whether it will be seen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Chinese director Li Yang, holding awards his mining drama "Blind Shaft" won in March at the Deauville Asian Film Festival in France. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MINES & MINING (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); COAL MINING (76%); MINE WORKERS (76%); FESTIVALS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); NEW ECONOMY (64%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%) MOTION PICTURES; TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL (NYC); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: LI YANG; KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTHWEST CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) CHINA (98%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (77%); UNITED STATES (76%)

TITLE: BLIND SHAFT (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



180 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2094 words

HEADLINE: Savoring the Chemistry Of Southern Cooking 

BYLINE:  By ALEX WITCHEL 

DATELINE: DECATUR, Ga. 

 BODY:
IT was in 1990 that Scott Peacock, the 27-year-old chef at the governor's mansion in Georgia, went to meet Edna Lewis, the 74-year-old doyenne of Southern cuisine, at an Atlanta train station. She was to cook at a fund-raising dinner for the American Institute of Food and Wine, and he was assigned to help her. There she was, on the platform, dragging a huge cardboard box by a rope. She knew she wouldn't have time to do things properly, so she had brought what she needed: 100 pounds of pie dough, packed in ice.
 As they began their work together, neither realized that they were embarking on one of the most unusual, yet enduring relationships ever forged in a kitchen. On the professional side is their new cookbook, "The Gift of Southern Cooking: Recipes and Revelations From Two Great American Cooks" (Alfred A. Knopf, $29.95). But it is the personal side that is most compelling. During the seven years in which they wrote the book, their friendship deepened and they moved in together here four years ago, to a quiet garden apartment. 
 During the last year, however, Miss Lewis, now 87, has become increasingly forgetful and confused. After living a bohemian life -- married briefly, she had no children, traveled extensively, never lived in one place for too long -- she had no home base. Mr. Peacock, now 40, single, and the acclaimed chef at Watershed, a restaurant in Decatur, an Atlanta suburb, has assumed responsibility for her care. This gay white man and this elderly African-American woman have forged a genuine family, with a devotion too rarely seen among blood relations.
"Would you like something to drink, Miss Lewis?" Mr. Peacock asked as he sat beside her on the couch in their tiny living room last week. It was an unexpectedly hot afternoon, and the air-conditioning was most temperamental. She shook her head and smiled. Though she calls him Scott, he still calls her Miss Lewis, though he says that "Edna Mae" and "Old Woman" are alternatives. Miss Lewis has always made an elegant appearance and she was perfectly turned out, as usual, in a batik dress of her own design and her trademark dangling earrings. Her smile was warm, though she didn't participate much in the conversation. Sometimes she seemed to listen, more often she just seemed preoccupied, looking in another direction, thinking other thoughts.
If she was reflecting on days gone by, she had plenty of material. She was born in 1916 in Freetown, Va., a community established by former slaves, one of them her grandfather. She moved to New York City, where she ironed shirts, dressed windows at Bonwit Teller and in the late 1940's became the chef and a partner at Cafe Nicholson, a restaurant on East 58th Street. She was an unapologetic member of the Communist Party, wrote three cookbooks before her collaboration with Mr. Peacock and was the chef at Gage & Tollner in Brooklyn. Although her ingredients of choice included buttermilk and lard, she became just as celebrated as more worldly chefs; in 1999 she was named Grande Dame of Les Dames d'Escoffier International. And on Monday, she was inducted into the James Beard Foundation's Cookbook Hall of Fame.
Miss Lewis doesn't cook much these days, although she does go three times a week to a program for seniors, where she helps serve them food. And, Mr. Peacock noted, she shelled the peas for the soup he made for lunch that day. 
"I guess there are a lot of obvious differences between us," Mr. Peacock said, looking at Miss Lewis fondly. "But there's a lot alike, too. We're both loners and we're both basically shy. We've both struggled with depression and we're both Southern, though being from Hartford, Ala., I didn't realize Virginia was even in the South.
"I lived alone for 15 years before this," he continued. "But we definitely wanted to be together."
Mr. Peacock has been the chef at Watershed since 1998. Before that he made a name for himself at the Horseradish Grill in Atlanta, having left the governor's mansion in 1991 after two administrations. Full of the fervor Miss Lewis instilled in him for the rich heritage of Southern regional cooking, he once prepared a dinner at the mansion of grilled veal chops served over grits cooked with cream and veal stock. Governor Zell Miller's wife, Shirley, was horrified by the idea of serving such lowdown food to company, Mr. Peacock said, and made him switch to mashed potatoes.
"I never had the courage to walk away from the governor's mansion," he said. "But when the state was faced with huge budget cuts and layoffs, it was great press for the governor to give up his chef."
He didn't find work for a full year, though Miss Lewis was unwavering in her support. Their friendship grew slowly, through notes and phone calls. "In the beginning, of course, I was in awe," he said. "I was smitten. And a mutual friend told me, 'Miss Lewis is smitten with you, too.' " At that moment, Miss Lewis looked straight at Mr. Peacock and raised her eyebrows mockingly.
"Yes she told me that, and it better be true," he said, as she smiled, amused. "Anyway," Mr. Peacock went on, "for a young cook, that kind of validation is a very powerful thing."
He visited Miss Lewis in New York. "We talked for hours about Southern cooking," he recalled. "I had been reading in all the magazines about how Italian food was so wonderful because of the short distance it travels from field to table. Well, my father came from a family of poor farmers, and when we were growing up he rented a small space for us to plant okra and greens. We would take what we grew to the IGA and sell it, though I found out later that my dad would pay the man to buy that okra, which was everywhere and very cheap. Anyway, talking with Miss Lewis, I had an epiphany of seeing the obvious. I had grown my okra, I knew about what Alice Waters was doing. Miss Lewis said, 'We need good cooks to stay in the South.' I didn't need to be an Italian chef. I could be a Southern chef."
During Mr. Peacock's unemployment, his father, Franklin, who owns an auto parts business, helped out. "It was kind of amazing of him," Mr. Peacock said. "I think he was always disappointed that he had a son who couldn't shoot a gun or play football. On Christmas, when my sister got pots and pans, there's a picture of me crawling away from the toy trucks toward them, as my parents wept in the background." He grinned. "And the same thing happened the next year when she got the Easy Bake oven."
Although he remains close to his father, he says his relationship with his mother, Dorothy, is more complicated.
Is Miss Lewis maternal toward him? "No," he said quickly. "What I found in Miss Lewis was someone who understood." His eyes filled. "It was about being seen -- as a cook, as a person. After the first article came out about the two of us, calling us the odd couple of Southern cooking, I remember Miss Lewis saying, 'People write about all the things that are different about us, but I never met anyone I could relate to creatively with such synchronicity.' "
Judith Jones, a senior editor and vice president at Alfred A. Knopf, who edited this new cookbook as well as Miss Lewis's "Taste of Country Cooking" and "In Pursuit of Flavor," said by phone: "When Edna met Scott she felt a total connection. She was her wonderful, girlish self again. This is not about Edna wanting a son. If anything he's the one who's paternal now that Edna is forgetful.
"When they were writing this book they would go on what they called retreats to some place in the mountains with their plantation cookbooks and cook together for days, just loving it. And the way Scott has made that apartment cluttered with all the things that Edna loves -- he's trying to delight her."
Recently, Mr. Peacock said, he has thought about trying some romance. He has dated less since he stopped drinking in 1996. "I was charming when I drank, my inhibitions fell away, but without it I became shy," he said. Had Miss Lewis disapproved of his drinking? "She never passed judgment," he said, looking at her, though she didn't respond. His tone was gentle. "It's happened so slowly and in stages," he said. "I remember the first time someone used the word caretaker with me. I was frightened. I didn't see that then, though I do now. It really is that thing drunks say, one day at a time." He went into the kitchen to put lunch on the table.
Is Scott a good roommate? Miss Lewis smiled shyly. "I guess so," she said. She seemed uncertain, being with a stranger. She heard Mr. Peacock in the kitchen. "He's real careful about what he cooks and how he does it," she said. "His restaurant is always jammed." Her voice was proud.
"Do you want me to help you up, Miss Lewis?" Mr. Peacock had returned. "No," she said, trying it herself, though the couch wasn't cooperating. He made a steady stream of conversation, all about the book, so she wouldn't realize he was helping her, anyway. Once she was standing, he entwined his hand in hers, then led her to the kitchen amid a continuing tumble of words about not very much at all, but they lulled and comforted, and assured her that they were going to sit at their table together.
He spooned the minted soup of English peas, a recipe from their book, into large white bowls and served their crusted yeast rolls, still warm in their cast iron skillet. On most days, their meals come from Watershed, though Mr. Peacock said, "Sometimes that fried chicken I bring home is from Popeye's." 
As the last year has grown more difficult, Mr. Peacock started hiring companions for Miss Lewis when he is at work. "Finally letting other people in has been helpful," he said. "When I first saw the writing on the wall, I didn't want to accept what was going on. But the greatest gift is coming to terms with things, facing something instead of running away. It's such a Southern thing when you don't want to expose yourself toothers. You don't want people to see the cracks in the wall or in yourself."
He cleared the soup plates and because it was so hot, skipped the baked chicken in favor of asparagus with cucumber dressing. After two bites, he was up, whipping cream for the angel food cake, which he sliced onto plates next to sugared strawberries.
Did he and Miss Lewis ever sit down and talk about her situation? He nodded: "Right at the beginning when she got confused a number of times, she realized what was happening. And she just looked at me and said, 'Oh, Scott, I'm so sorry.' " 
He turned toward her, but she continued to gaze out the window. "We have days that are brilliant and you'd think nothing is wrong," he said. "I guess at 87 it could be a lot worse. We're not privy to what tomorrow is going to hold, but that thing about being in the moment is so true. I'll be washing a soup bowl after dinner and see her and feel that sacred quality. I feel so grateful."
He reached over and touched Miss Lewis's arm. Her expression had clouded, and it took her a moment to focus on him. But once she did, her face brightened and her smile was suffused with gladness. As was his. "There is something so sacred," he said, "about loving someone."

ANGEL FOOD CAKE
Adapted from "The Gift of Southern Cooking"
by Edna Lewis and Scott Peacock (Alfred A. Knopf, 2003)
Time: 1 hour

1 cup cake flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
12 large egg whites, at room temperature
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract.
1. Heat oven to 375 degrees. Combine flour and 3/4 cups sugar and sift twice onto wax paper or a plate. Set aside.
2. Put egg whites into a large mixing bowl and beat on low speed until frothy. Add cream of tartar, salt, vanilla and 1 tablespoon water. Continue beating, gradually increasing speed until egg whites begin to increase in volume. Sprinkle remaining 3/4 cup sugar over whites 1/4 cup at a time, and beat until incorporated. Do not overbeat. Egg whites should be just firm enough to form soft peaks. 
3. Sift 1/4 of the reserved flour and sugar mixture over beaten whites and fold in. Repeat until entire mixture has been added, making sure each addition is fully incorporated into whites before adding more. 
4. Spoon batter into an ungreased 10-inch tube pan. Use a long spatula or butter knife to draw a deep line through center of batter following circumference of pan; this will release any large pockets of air.
5. Bake 35 to 40 minutes or until cake is golden brown and springs back to the touch. Remove from oven and invert onto a plate; cool completely in pan. When cooled, use a long straight-edged spatula to loosen cake from sides of pan. Store tightly covered. 
Yield: 10 servings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHARING A STOVE -- Edna Lewis and Scott Peacock in their Decatur, Ga., kitchen. Their new cookbook features the Southern foods they love. (Albert Trotman for The New York Times)(pg. F1); LINKED BY FOOD -- Edna Lewis, 87, and Scott Peacock, 40, live together as a family, each smitten with the other's creativity in Southern cooking. (Albert Trotman for The New York Times)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); LITERATURE (66%) COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX; LEWIS, EDNA; PEACOCK, SCOTT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) SOUTHERN STATES (US)

TITLE: GIFT OF SOUTHERN COOKING, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



181 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK; 
For U.S., Bargain Wines, Not French Ones

BYLINE:  By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
FRENCH wines have experienced problems in the American market before: complicated labels, unpopular wine styles, unfavorable exchange rates. But they haven't encountered difficulties as tough as the ones they are now facing since Prohibition. 
 Already battered by the economic downturn, the French are suffering from a boycott in protest of the Chirac government's outspoken objections to the American-led war against Iraq. According to Impact, a trade publication, some polls show that as many as 30 percent of "core wine drinkers" are boycotting French wines. Then, too, the dollar has dropped almost 19 percent against the euro over the last year, making price increases on imports all but inevitable. 
 Although the net effect of the boycott on this year's wine sales cannot yet be fully determined, Impact's figures show a continuation of the pattern of declining sales of French wines over the last decade. France's share of the imported wine market in this country has slipped from almost 30 percent in 1992 to 18.4 percent last year. 
Impact's annual report, in its April issue on the best-selling wine imports in the United States in 2002, listed only one French producer in the Top 10, Georges Duboeuf, the Beaujolais specialist who also markets popular lines of inexpensive wines from the Languedoc-Roussillon region. Duboeuf, sixth in 2001, fell to eighth last year, a 3 percent drop in cases imported by the United States. Impact also noted that Duboeuf is not likely to appear in the top group at all next year. 
Americans who concern themselves with top-end wines, whether from California or anywhere else, are rarely familiar with the best-selling wines in America, which often cost less than $10 a bottle. The most popular label continues to be Concha y Toro, from Chile, with Riunite of Italy in second place. These labels sell a lot of wine here, some 2.1 million cases of Concha y Toro and just less than 1.8 million of Riunite.
Despite the weaker dollar, 2002 was still a banner year for imports. They were up just under 16 percent to 55.3 million cases from 2001, Impact reported. It's an impressive figure when compared with some of the much-fussed-over California cult wineries doing maybe 800 cases, but perhaps a bit less so when one considers that Gallo alone produces 60 million cases every year. 
Riunite made its name in the 1980's with Lambrusco, which was for many years the No. 1 wine import in this country. After a brief eclipse, Riunite came back strongly last year, with fruit-flavored wines with unforgettable names like Peach Chardonnay, Raspberry Cabernet and Strawberry White Merlot. Oh yes, there is a White Lambrusco, too. The base wine is Italian even if the names come from Madison Avenue. Banfi, the company that virtually created these, er, products, says they are for "entry-level drinkers."
If you are one of the legion of chardonnay fans who has fled to pinot grigio in recent years, you probably helped propel another Italian label, Cavit, to third place on the Impact list. Cavit offers a full line of varietal wines, but many of the 1.925 million cases it sold in the United States last year were pinot grigio.
The fourth and fifth import leaders were Australians, Rosemount Estate and Lindeman's. Australia's winemakers put on the heat last year; their total imports were up more than 50 percent over 2001. Both the Italians and the Australians are a good bet to edge past the Chileans for No. 1 in next year's numbers. 
Some interesting action in the lower end of the market came from the other Top 10 producers, particularly from Casella, a winery in Southeastern Australia that produces wine under the Yellow Tail label. While Yellow Tail has not had the astonishing rise of Charles Shaw's $1.99 wine known as Two-Buck Chuck, its debut has been spectacular for a more serious wine. In 2001, 200,000 cases of chardonnay, cabernet sauvignon, merlot and shiraz were imported into the United States. In 2002, the figure jumped to 1.4 million cases, much of it in 1.5-liter bottles. William J. Deutsch, the importer, said the Casella winery could produce five million cases of Yellow Tail a year if demand continues to rise. 
Yellow Tail was the sixth-biggest import last year. Bolla, from Italy, was seventh and Duboeuf eighth. The last two on the list are Bella Sera and Ecco Domani, both E.&J. Gallo wines made in Italy. Both labels offer the ubiquitous pinot grigio along with the Italian staples: merlot, cabernet, sangiovese and Chianti. Bella Sera sold 1.12 million cases and Ecco Domani 900,000. Based on Impact figures, the two wines put Gallo close to the two-million-case level, making the company a major contender in he imported wine business.
Many Top 10 wines are priced under $10, and except for the Riunite wines, most represent value. They are not meant for connoisseurs, collectors or most other serious wine drinkers. At the same time there are many wines here that represent true bargains. It just might be that the Two-Buck Chuck phenomenon, drinkable wine at surprisingly low prices, will capture the public imagination. If it does, a lot of wine drinkers are going to find that they have been missing out on some good, affordable wines right under their noses. 
The Europeans and the South Americans, the Australians and the New Zealanders must be doing something right. In a year when retailers and restaurants raced each other to drop wine prices, Americans bought 16 percent more foreign wine than the year before, most of it at the lower end of the price scale.
I have always contended that when it comes to wines in the $15-a-bottle-and-under category, imports have it all over the native product. For my money, Italy is making some of the best low-priced wines in the world, and the last time I looked, nobody around here is mad at the Italians.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WHAT AMERICANS DRINK -- Top sellers include Riunite, Yellow Tail and Concha y Toro. These bottles cost a total of $21.62 at a Manhattan shop. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); RANKINGS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); WINERIES (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ANNUAL REPORTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (55%); EURO (55%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: VINA CONCHA & TORO SA (58%)

TICKER: VCO (NYSE) (58%); CONCHATORO (SGO) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (58%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (58%)

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LANGUEDOC-ROUSSILLON, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (92%); IRAQ (91%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



182 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: A Mass Transit Tax 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Mass transit riders may wish for extra services in exchange for the extra 50 cents coming out of their pockets, but "a little snack, a mint on the way. 
And a better smell" -- as one rider joked (news article, May 3) -- are not the answer. What straphangers need is a vast improvement in mass transit capacity and efficiency. (Where, oh where, is the mythical Second Avenue subway?) 
 This straphanger wishes for a mass transit tax that would come out of the pockets of the employers whose employees hang on the straps to and from work each day. This tax could be based on the number of workers employed. Such a tax could be justified by the countless work hours and productivity lost because of mass transit inadequacy and inefficiency. Surely a better mass transit system enabled by this revenue would improve the city's economy.

G. W. KELLY
New York, May 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUBWAYS 

PERSON: KELLY, G W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (84%) UNITED STATES (84%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



183 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Niche Markets Dominate Boston's Office Scene

BYLINE:  By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

DATELINE: BOSTON, May 6 

 BODY:
Even as office vacancy rates for Boston are exceeding those of the early 1990's, development in some significant niche markets -- life science research, academia and hotels -- is flourishing.
 In greater Boston, 23.3 percent of the offices are available for lease or sublease compared with 5.5 percent in 2000, according to Spaulding & Slye Colliers, a real estate services concern here. In 1991, the low point of the last severe economic downturn, that figure was 16.9 percent. The availability rate in Boston's prime financial district is now 18.9 percent, up from 16.7 percent at the end of 2002, 4.1 percent in 2000 and 16 percent in 1991. 
 But development in niche markets is going full tilt. In Boston and Cambridge, 8,689 hotel rooms have recently opened, are in construction or have been authorized by building permits. Colleges have about six million square feet of classrooms, dormitories and administrative offices in development and are planning millions more square feet.
Last month, Harvard University, the region's largest academic property owner, with 18 million square feet of space, agreed to purchase 91 acres of land adjacent to its business school in the Allston neighborhood of Boston. That purchase -- now being challenged by government agencies -- would bring to 341 acres the property it has gradually acquired in Boston, dwarfing its 216-acre campus in Cambridge, which has 12 million square feet of space.
Construction is under way in the two cities on about seven million square feet of life science laboratories, at a cost of $300 to $600 a square foot, with an additional four million square feet being planned in Boston alone.
Each of these niche markets is modest when compared with 56-million-square-foot office market in the city of Boston. But as a whole, they are a solid underpinning for the wobbly commercial property market and fortify the economic foundation for future growth. 
Boston itself now has about 5 million square feet of labs and 25 million square feet of academic space. By 2007, when the current hotel projects are completed, Boston and Cambridge will have 22,700 rooms, a 50 percent increase, officials in bothcities estimate.
Hotel development took off in 1997 when the city and state agreed to finance a new convention center if at least 4,800 new hotel rooms were built to accommodate conventioneers and generate tax revenues to help pay for the center. Of the 8,680 new rooms, 4,191 have opened, in 22 new hotels and 4 expansions. Seven hotels are under construction, with 914 rooms. Permits have been issued for construction of another 3,584 rooms, said Matthew Arrants, director of the Pinnacle Advisory Group, a hotel consulting company, who added that declines in occupancy rates and average room prices might delay some projects.
For the life science labs, the city's teaching hospitals and schools have been growth catalysts. Many hospitals are linked to universities that have huge endowments to use as collateral for loans or to finance construction. Boston and Cambridge researchers have also benefited from federal grants, including $1.6 billion last year from the National Institutes of Health. 
Potential tenants for the lab space, in addition to the hospitals and researchers, are businesses that rely on them, like pharmaceutical, biomedical or biotechnology companies. As its entry to Boston, Merck is building a 300,000-square-foot lab in the Longwood Medical Area.
The Longwood Medical Area itself is mushrooming, with two million square feet of labs in eight buildings -- including 1.1 million square feet of speculative space -- under development, said Owen Donnelly, a consultant for the Boston Redevelopment Authority, the city planning agency. In addition, the various Longwood Medical Area entities are planning at least another four million square feet of new labs, said Eric Buerhrens, the Harvard Medical School executive dean for administration and finance.
By fall, when Harvard Medical School completes a $260 million, 530,000-square-foot lab, it will occupy 2.25 million square feet in 16 buildings, almost three times its space in 1996, Mr. Buerhrens said.
For strongly endowed institutions, a down economy can be a good time to develop. Costs have fallen for construction, and professional services and permits can be faster. Of the medical school's new research building, Mr. Buerhrens said, "We may bring this in under budget." 
Cambridge, where much life science research is related to biotechnology and information technology, has had a spike in lab availability to perhaps 28 percent versus zero in 2000, said Joseph T. Maguire, director of real estate for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Of M.I.T.'s three million square feet of labs for rent, Mr. Maguire said, 15 percent is now available.
Some of the new Cambridge lab projects were started when the real estate market was stronger; some are already leased. But unlike Boston, where many labs focus on biomedical research, Cambridge's biotechnology companies are more reliant on the venture capital and securities markets, where investors have been cautious lately.
It may be bleak now, "but the demand for science will rebound when capital markets bounce back," Mr. Maguire said.
According to Scott Morrison, United States life science leader for Ernst & Young, "Over the long term, the Boston area will continue to be a center of excellence."
The surge in academic growth seems to buttress that view. M.I.T., which owns and occupies 10.3 million square feet in 142 buildings on its Cambridge campus, has 2.24 million square feet under development in 9 buildings, a $1 billion investment, a spokeswoman said.
A few weeks ago, city officials approved a new master plan for Boston University, which owns and occupies 13 million square feet. It is building three projects with 518,000 square feet for $335 million: a lab, 220 units of housing and a sports complex. In the next three years, it hopes to develop more labs and a new law school, said Richard J. Towle, a university official.
Harvard is developing about 1.1 million square feet in nine buildings, according to university and city officials. City and state officials are trying to keep the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority from selling to the university the 91-acre freight rail yard adjacent to the Harvard Business School. The state is trying to take back a portion of the property. 
Some smaller institutions like Emerson College have made significant contributions to the downtown commercial property market here. Since 1992, Emerson has invested $225 million to move its entire campus from the residential Back Bay to the long-derelict theater district. The school injected vitality into the neighborhood, and major commercial development followed. Now, it hopes that its last big project, a $75 million dormitory, will be well timed.
"If we can start building during the next academic year, we can save about 20 percent on the cost," said Robert A. Silverman, Emerson's vice president for finance and administration. "This opportunity won't last."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Wednesday with an article about the development of Boston area buildings in niche markets, like life science research and academia, misstated the location of Harvard's new biotechnology building. It is in Boston, not Cambridge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvard University's new biotechnology building on Avenue Louis Pasteur in Cambridge, Mass. While Boston's office vacancy rates are high, development in some significant niche markets is flourishing. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) Graph: "Data Update"New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, through March. Graph tracks regional in thousands since 2000. NATIONAL IN THOUSANDSMAR. 02: 139.6JAN. 03: 121.6FEB. 03: 124.2MAR. 03: 143.5 (Source: U.S. Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); HOSPITALS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT 

COMPANY: JONES LANG LASALLE INC (90%); SEVEN HOTELS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%)

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



184 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Even With Glut, Shrimp Farmers Want StillMore and Others Balk 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: MAHACHAI CITY, Thailand 

 BODY:
Holding a plate of freshly cooked shrimp, Wichan Maungchanburi, a 41-year-old shrimp farmer, asked what price they would fetch in the United States.
 "I cannot sell these here," he said gruffly, sitting in front of his simple stone house in southern Thailand. "We have too many shrimp in Thailand. And now they say these are too small. These are the ones they rejected." 
 It is not just Thailand; there are simply too many shrimp worldwide.
After decades of growth brought about by the creation of giant, man-made shrimp ponds throughout Asia, and with other countries stepping up production, prices have collapsed. On top of that, the industry faces criticism from environmentalists for clearing forests and destroying wetlands, and American fishermen accuse Asian producers of illegally dumping shrimp below cost.
One industry response to the glut is a prediction that with modern production methods and costs falling, shrimp consumption will soar. But that optimism is tempered by diseases that have invaded ponds in some areas.
No company feels these pressures more than the Charoen Pokphand Group, the world's largest exporter of frozen shrimp.
In good times, the Bangkok-based CP Group, as it is known, racked up fat profits and fed America's growing appetite for shrimp. Now it is under attack on many fronts. For one thing, environmentalists blame it for destroying wetlands.
With its profits slumping, the value of the company's shrimp exports plummeted 25 percent last year. Wholesale shrimp prices are down nearly 50 percent over the past few years, to about $5 a pound.
"This is a very challenging time for them," said Komsun Suksumrun, an analyst at Merrill Lynch in Bangkok.
In response, the CP Group is trying to move up the value chain, analysts say, by marketing ready-to-eat shrimp dishes and strengthening its more profitable shrimp feed business.
Yet problems remain. CP Group executives say that demand began to slide after Sept. 11, 2001.
The company is being hurt by tighter European Union restrictions on antibiotic use. Earlier this year, the E.U. rejected some Thai shrimp after tests showed residue of banned antibiotics.
It also faces stiffer competition from China and Latin America, where shrimp production is booming. Last year, China became the world's largest shrimp producer, a title Thailand had held since 1993. And while demand continues to grow in the West, the pace has slowed.
"There's just too much shrimp out there," says Charles Woodhouse, a columnist at Fish Farming International. World shrimp farm production jumped to about 1.5 million metric tons in 2002, up from about 600,000 in 1990, according to Shrimp News International.
Angered by the drop in prices, American shrimp fishermen along the Gulf Coast are considering an antidumping lawsuit.
"It seems the shrimp are coming in here at a faster pace than they can be consumed," says Eddie Gordon, president of the Southern Shrimp Alliance, a trade group in Louisiana.
Meanwhile, the CP Group, to compete with lower-cost producers in China and Vietnam, is moving some shrimp farming production to India, Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia. Among other things, experts say the moves could help the company avoid the effects of viral diseases that have ravaged parts of Thailand in recent years.
Here in the Mae Klong region south of Bangkok, once a thriving shrimp-growing area, abandoned farms line the small roads off the highway. Weeds cover old footpaths, and former shrimp ponds are now hollow pits of dried, cracked earth.
Residents say many farmers have returned to the salt-drying industry that dominated the region before people learned how to dig giant holes and fill them with thousands of gallons of South China Sea water to create shrimp ponds.
Surviving farmers say they work harder each year only to harvest fewer shrimp. "These are real tough times," said Sopun Kalljain, a shrimp farmer in the southern town of Lampo.
Even though Thai shrimp production reached record levels last year, experts say many regions are being slowed by disease. Some fear the industry could be destroyed by the kinds of viruses that wiped out the shrimp industry in Taiwan in the late 1980's.
As a solution, many Thai farmers are abandoning the traditional black tiger shrimp and experimenting with white shrimp, a variety that costs less to produce and has been bred to be immune to certain diseases.
To bolster production and lock out carriers of disease, the CP Group is also experimenting with new farming techniques. In Yisarn, a village 19 miles south of Mahachai, it has developed indoor shrimp ponds with temperature and water-quality controls.
"This is our future," said Sujit Kaewchum, general manager of the Yisarn research center. "Here we can harvest five times a year rather than two times. And indoors we can get more consistency, more production."
Indoor ponds could also help eliminate some of the environmental problems that have long plagued the industry, experts say. Since the 1960's, environmentalists have criticized shrimp producers for clearing mangrove forests and destroying wetlands to build shrimp ponds.
"This is basically a cut-and-kill system," said Isabel de la Torre, an environmentalist working for the Industrial Shrimp Action Network, an advocacy group. "They dig up the land, create dikes, use chemicals and kill everything off. Then, when they're done, they leave and move up and down the coast, looking for a new spot."
Even today, World Heritage sites in Bangladesh and the Philippines, meant to be preserves, are being cleared of mangrove trees to create ponds, environmentalists say.
Some industry officials concede that the creation of giant ponds -- often 100,000 square feet and five feet deep -- have resulted in environmental ruin. But they insist recent shrimp farm development has been more environmentally friendly.
"We're doing a lot better job managing the growth," said George Chamberlain, president of the Global Aquaculture Alliance, an industry group. Industry officials believe, however, that consumption growth will soon recover and that new techniques will be needed to produce even more shrimp. Poor farmers in India, Bangladesh, Indonesia and Vietnam are now clearing forests and digging deep, wide holes for new ponds.
Some experts say that because of cheap labor and new techniques, the cost of producing shrimp is plummeting. "They're making it at an amazingly low price and will eventually put all commercial fishermen out of business," said Bob Rosenberry, editor of Shrimp News International.
Chingchai Lohawatanakul, chief executive of Charoen Pokphand Foods, the flagship unit of the CP Group, says that as prices fall, consumption will grow even more. Shrimp, he said, will no longer be seen as a luxury item, but will take its place as a staple, like beef, chicken and pork.
"Our competitor is not India or Vietnam," Mr. Lohawatanakul said. "Our competitor is pork."
How will the world produce what some industry officials expect to be 10 times more shrimp to meet the growing demand over the next 20 years? On what land?
No one knows. But CP is counting on it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shrimp ponds in Thailand. Some are 100,000 square feet and 5 feet deep. (pg. C4); (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUACULTURE (91%); SHELLFISH FARMING (91%); SEAFOOD (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (78%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); WETLANDS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (73%); ANTIBIOTICS (72%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); LITIGATION (68%); LIVESTOCK FEED (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); SHELLFISH FISHING (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) FOOD AND COOKING 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (90%) THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



185 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Japanese Company Buys Into U.S. Shop

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Hakuhodo in Tokyo, a large agency company, said yesterday that it had acquired a minority stake in Mendelsohn/Zien Advertising in Los Angeles for undisclosed terms.
 Tomokazu Jimbo, corporate executive officer at Hakuhodo, confirmed a report of the deal in Adage.com. 
It has generally been rare for Japanese agencies to make acquisitions overseas, but more such deals are expected as the Japanese economy struggles to grow. 
 Mendelsohn/Zien has billings of $202 million from clients like BMW North America and Hardee's Food Systems.
Jordin Mendelsohn and Richard Zien will continue as managing partners.
In December, Hakuhodo bought 49 percent of a London agency, Mustoe Merriman Levy. Later this year, Hakuhodo and two other Japanese agencies, Daiko Advertising and Yomiko Advertising, plan to merge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); FAST FOOD (86%); MARKETING PLAN (72%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: HARDEE'S FOOD SYSTEMS INC (71%); MENDELSOHN/ZIEN ADVERTISING INC (58%); HAKUHODO DY HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: 2433 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



186 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dollar Drops and Treasuries Gain After Fed Statement

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The dollar plunged and the bond market rallied after Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday that the economy faced a risk of further weakness in the months ahead and, possibly, a sharp fall in inflation. The stock market gave up some gains but still finished the day in the black.
 The Fed's policy makers, as expected, left the central bank's benchmark federal funds rate at 1.25 percent. What surprised bond and currency markets was the Fed's concern about prices falling further. 
 In the current weak economic environment, concern about a big drop in inflation can be taken as a worry about the threat of deflation, although policy makers did not use the word. Falling inflation means smaller price increases. Deflation means a general, widespread price decline, which could bring the kind of economic troubles that have plagued Japan for more than a decade.
While the dollar was already falling against the euro and the yen before the Fed acted, the decline accelerated after the 2:15 p.m. announcement. On the day, the dollar fell 1.2 percent against the euro, which was valued at $1.1417 in afternoon trading. For the year, the dollar is now down 8.1 percent against the euro, which is approaching a value of $1.1667, which was the price of the euro when it became the currency of 11 European countries on Jan. 1, 1998. The dollar was at 117.67 yen, down 0.8 percent.
The bond market, which rallies on economic weakness and low inflation, did an about-face after the announcement. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note was around 3.91 percent just ahead of 2:15, up from 3.89 percent Monday. The yield then plunged to 3.78 percent, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 27/32 , to 10024/32 . The yield on the two-year note dropped to 1.43 percent from 1.53 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which was up almost 110 points before the announcement, finished with a gain of 56.79 points, or 0.7 percent, to 8,588.36. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.84 points, or 0.9 percent, to 934.39, while the Nasdaq composite index climbed 19.67 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,523.71.
The question for equity investors is whether the Fed's concern about the threat of economic weakness should worry them. Both the Nasdaq and the S.& P. 500-stock index are at new highs for the year and the Dow is close to one. But while corporate earnings for the first quarter have beaten expectations, analysts expect earnings growth to slow in the second quarter.
Joseph T. Keating, chief investment officer for AmSouth Asset Management in Birmingham, Ala., said he was not worried because the central bank's statement also said that the decline in oil prices, the jump in consumer confidence and the rise in stocks since the end of the war in Iraq "should foster an improving economic climate over time."
Still, the Fed statement also said that the upside and downside risks of attaining sustainable growth over the next several quarters were "roughly equal."
Then it added the warning on inflation: "In contrast, over the same period, the probability of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation, though minor, exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level."
Paul Poldolsky, chief foreign exchange strategist at FleetBoston Financial in Boston, said he thought currency traders now believed that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, "thinks that deflation is a risk to the economy."
"And if that is true," Mr. Poldolsky said, "there is no reason for foreign investors to increase their dollar holdings because the dollar is very vulnerable."
David Gilmore, a partner in Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn., said the dollar faced even more problems than the threat of deflation. Global investors are souring on the dollar because interest rates here are lower than those abroad, he said, and the Fed statement is a signal that policy makers could cut interest rates in the future.
Further pressure could come later this week if two other major central banks, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England, decide to leave their benchmark interest rates unchanged, bolstering the attractiveness of interest rates abroad.
In addition, the dollar is sinking under the weight of the United States' $500 billion current account deficit, which includes profits on investments as well as trades in goods and services. To offset this deficit, the United States must attract offsetting investment from abroad.
"The textbook question is, Are large current account deficits sustainable over time?" said Mr. Gilmore, who said they were not. The dollar's decline, he said, is one expected response as flows from abroad slow. But the second expected response, a rise in interest rates to attract money from abroad, has yet to occur.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a four-week bill and a three-year note:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.919
High Rate: 1.040
Coupon Yield: 1.060
Low Rate: 1.010
Median Rate: 1.030
Total applied for: $25,596,813
Accepted: $10,143,434
Noncompetitive: $43,884
The four-week bills mature June 6.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.974
High Yield: 2.009%
Low Yield: 1.800%
Median Yield: 1.980%
Accepted at low price: 43%
Total applied for: $43,560,359
Accepted: $22,391,033
Noncompetitive: $144,034
Interest set at: 2
The three-year notes mature May 15, 2006.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DEFLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EURO (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%) ALABAMA, USA (78%) JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



187 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 585 words

PERSON: George Kozmetsky 

HEADLINE: George Kozmetsky, 89, Dean And a Co-Founder of Teledyne 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
George Kozmetsky, co-founder of the conglomerate Teledyne and a lifelong educator who used his work and philanthropy to bring industry and academia closer together, died last Wednesday in Austin, Tex. He was 85.
 The cause was a heart attack, his son, Gregory, said. 
 Over the course of his life, Dr. Kozmetsky repeatedly moved between boardrooms and business schools. Known for 18-hour workdays that began at 4 a.m., Dr. Kozmetsky was active to the end, his son said, meeting with representatives from Mexico's government on the Friday before he died and holding conference calls from his apartment over the following few days.
Teledyne, his best-known business venture, was started in 1960 as a $550,000 joint investment with Henry E. Singleton, a colleague from Litton Industries, then a small electronics company. With Dr. Kozmetsky as executive vice president, Teledyne grew into a conglomerate of some 130 companies, making everything from stereo speakers to airplane parts. 
After six years at Teledyne, Dr. Kozmetsky left to become dean of the business school at the University of Texas at Austin, a position he held for 16 years. 
His move from Teledyne to Texas, he said at the time, reflected his lifelong philosophy that the academic and business worlds needed to work in better concert. He envisioned "a cross-breeding of engineering and the humanities to bring about the complete man -- the so-called Renaissance man that was the strength of the 16th century," he said in an interview.
At about the same time, he and his wife, Ronya, established the RGK Foundation, which now has assets of about $103 million and has awarded $20 million over the last three years. 
Last month, the couple donated $6 million to set up a technology alliance between the University of Texas and Stanford University.
Born in Seattle to Russian immigrant parents, Dr. Kozmetsky graduated from the University of Washington at the age of 20 and subsequently served in the Army Medical Corps during World War II. He then earned an M.B.A. and doctorate in commercial science from Harvard. His academic career included teaching positions at Harvard University and Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. 
In 1952, he joined the Hughes Aircraft Company, where he spent three years before moving to Litton. 
At the University of Texas he also served as the executive associate for economic affairs. In 1977, Dr. Kozmetsky founded the IC2 Institute, a center for technology entrepreneurship and research.
Over the years, more than 100 technology companies received Dr. Kozmetsky's assistance in their development, and he served on the boards of Dell, Gulf, Heizer and La Quinta, among others. 
In 1993, he was awarded the National Medal of Technology by President Bill Clinton.
In addition to his son, Gregory, of Austin, and his wife of 59 years, Ronya, Dr. Kozmetsky is survived by his daughter, Nadya Scott of Santa Monica, Calif.; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. Another son, George, died in 1972. 
Gregory Kozmetsky said of his father: "I think my dad always felt that, first and foremost, he was a teacher, and his legacy is his students across the world."
He added that his father would want those students to appreciate the connections between business and academia, technology and philanthropy. "Everybody that he met automatically got his respect, and they had to work to lose it," Mr. Kozmetsky said. "He honestly felt that the world could be a much better place if everybody could work together and listen."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 8, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An obituary headline yesterday about George Kozmetsky, co-founder of the Teledyne conglomerate, misstated his age. He was 85, not 89.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Kozmetsky (Teledyne, 1966) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ARMIES (65%); WORLD WAR II (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INC (91%); RAYTHEON CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

TICKER: TDY (NYSE) (91%); RTN (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (91%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (63%)

BILL CLINTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



188 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: BUDGETS IN CRISIS: ALBANY; 
Pataki Says Legislators' Budget Is Sure to Unravel

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 6 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki today continued his assault on the budget the Legislature passed in defiance of his veto threat, saying it would not reduce local property taxes as lawmakers maintain because they failed to revamp the Medicaid program.
 Also today, the State Senate gave final passage to a $1.9 billion aid package for New York City that allows the city to address its fiscal crisis by increasing its sales tax and imposing a surcharge on residents with high incomes. The bill was sent to the governor, who has not committed himself to signing it because he opposes the tax increases. 
 The city aid package, legislators said, includes enough new revenue to cover $270 million for the second year of a teachers' contract and to forestall about 10,000 layoffs in city agencies. Still, several senators from the city complained that the plan contained too little direct aid from the state.
"All we are doing here really is allowing New Yorkers to bail themselves out," said Senator John D. Sabini, a Queens Democrat. "If that's a bailout, that's a new one on me."
Nonetheless, the package was unanimously approved by the Republican-led Senate.
The governor, in denouncing the Legislature for passing its $92.8 billion budget, said today that the plan was sure to unravel later this fiscal year and cause enormous deficits in the future. He again promised to veto parts of the budget before the May 14 veto deadline. A final budget was due on April 1.
Like the city package, the Legislature's budget plan increases income taxes slightly on people in high-income brackets and raises the state sales tax a quarter of a percentage point. 
Those changes will be used to restore about $2 billion that Mr. Pataki cut from education aid and medical services to help close an $11.5 billion budget shortfall.
The governor maintains that the Legislature's plan will cause a $1.5 billion hole in this fiscal year's budget and a $5.3 billion shortfall in next year's plan. 
Mr. Pataki also challenged legislative leaders' argument that restoring the school aid and Medicaid would keep local property taxes down. He said that unless the Medicaid formulas were revamped, local governments would still have to shoulder a higher burden.
The Legislature's plan, Mr. Pataki said, would burden local governments outside New York City with $174 million more in Medicaid costs than would his plan. The state and local governments pay a quarter of Medicaid costs apiece, while Washington pays half.
"One of the saddest false promises is the promise that property taxes are not going to go up," he said at a news conference. 
The governor, who is often unavailable to reporters for days, has been holding frequent news conferences to attack the Legislature's budget.
Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader of the State Senate, and Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, said the governor ignored the Legislature's restoration of more than $1 billion in school aid. Many school districts were considering raising property taxes more than 20 percent to make up for the lack of aid, they said.
Later in the day, Senator Bruno put out a statement disputing Mr. Pataki's claims. When school aid and other streams of aid are counted, the Legislature's budget would give county governments $145 million more than the governor's plan would have, he said. 
The leaders also continued to dispute the governor's assertion that the budget passed last week was out of balance and contended that it helped address a deficit expected for next fiscal year. 
By enacting new taxes, the leaders said, they were helping the governor begin to solve that shortfall as well.
"We think it's a balanced budget," Mr. Bruno said.
Later, Mr. Silver appeared at a news conference with most of the state's most powerful union leaders, all of whom are supporting the Legislature's budget plan. 
"There is nothing in what the Legislature did that would make the state deficit any bigger than it would have been under the governor's budget," Mr. Silver said. "I don't believe we create a deficit next year."
By his side were labor leaders who had played a critical role in the days before the budget was passed by paying for millions of dollars' worth of advertising attacking the governor's budget and advocating an income-tax surcharge on the wealthy. The news conference seemed calculated to notify the governor that organized labor was backing the Legislature's plan to the hilt.
"Those who stand by us, we will be supportive of them," said Dennis Rivera, the president of 1199/SEIU, the powerful health care workers union, who supported Mr. Pataki last year.
Mr. Pataki planned to take his campaign against the Legislature's budget on the road Wednesday, addressing business leaders in Buffalo, Rochester and Syracuse. He maintains that the Legislature's budget will spend about $95 billion and is not balanced despite tax increases he believes will kill the economy.
"We are not going to have the resources to run the government," the governor said, "and we certainly are not going to have the resources to run it next year."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki, top, attacked the legislators' budget plan. In the middle photo, senators led by Joseph L. Bruno, center, the majority leader, conferred after passing a city aid package. Above, Assemby Speaker Sheldon Silver, left, and Dennis Rivera, second from right, a union leader, at a news conference. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); VETO (90%); SALES TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; TAXATION; SALES TAX; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



189 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: BUDGETS IN CRISIS: VOICES; 
Rising Costs Give New Yorkers Sticker Shock

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
You can be forgiven if you had the impression yesterday that New York had suddenly turned into a city of self-taught accountants, nervously computing number after depressing number.
 So it was with Frank T. Cervatini, a 77-year-old retired shoemaker who lives in the Bronx. He calculated that he would have to pay an extra $60 a month because of recent increases in subway fares and other assorted fees, taxes and surcharges, and a likely rent increase. "It's ridiculous," he said. "Everything in this city is getting expensive. How are you supposed to live? Thank God I'm nearly dead." 
 So it was, as well, with Gloria Thomas, 32, a single mother who lives in Manhattan. She figured that she would have $50 less a month if rents rose. But she wondered whether she could recoup that money by allowing her son's membership at the local recreation center to expire this summer, as unpleasant as that was. "You have to always calculate everything, because it's raining taxes, and there's no relief in sight," she said. 
Little by little, New Yorkers are paying a lot. There is the tentative increase of up to 8.5 percent on rent-regulated apartments, which represents the biggest rise since 1989, adopted Monday night by the New York City Rent Guidelines Board. There is the 5.5 percent increase in annual water fees for homeowners adopted by the City Water Board, also on Monday, which translates into an average of $27. There is the 50-cent spike, or 33 percent increase, in the subway fare to $2, which took effect on Sunday.
There is also the recent 18.5 percent surge in property taxes, higher cigarette costs, more expensive parking tickets and higher income taxes for the wealthy. And do not forget the proposed rises in taxi fares and tuition at the City University and the State University of New York, among other items.
During moments of introspection, some New Yorkers say they truly understand that the city, not to mention the country, is going through an economic crisis, and that it is incumbent upon everyone to share the burden. They understand, too, that politicians have held fees in check for years.
Still, many New Yorkers say that they are angry, frustrated and despondent about how all the stars of bad financial tidings seem to have ominously aligned, multiplying the effect of sticker shock over and over. And it is a tale of angst that can be told by people at every stage of life, from new parents to retirees, and is directed at Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki.
"You pay to live in the city, but it seems like they're turning the screws a little tighter all the time," said David Thalberg, a book publicist who lives in Manhattan. "Haven't they done this enough? You say to yourself, 'They're taking more out of our checks? Why don't they just take it all?' "
Mr. Thalberg, who is 37, has been obsessed with checkbook details and local news for the last few weeks, in a sharp departure from his usual sports-page reading habits. He and his wife, who is an executive at a home furnishings company, take the bus frequently. They have a 2-year-old daughter cared for by a nanny. The nanny has to take the subway to shuttle their daughter to play with friends and go on museum trips and to classes. "You add $4 or $5 a day more over a year, it really begins to hurt," Mr. Thalberg said.
Meanwhile, the Thalbergs have not had time to digest how much more economizing they will have to take on if a proposed increase in city and state income taxes for married couples making more than $150,000 takes effect. To compensate, Mr. Thalberg sometimes rides his bicycle to work, in the best Bloomberg tradition. He gently encourages his nanny to invite his daughter's friends over to their apartment, to save on commuting costs. 
Also, the family did not renew their $75 annual membership to the Wildlife Conservation Society. "It's no zoo this year," Mr. Thalberg said.
If the Thalbergs have an experience that young parents can relate to, Christopher Case has a story that resonates with aspiring college students. 
Mr. Case, a 26-year-old Guyanese immigrant, left the Navy last year as a petty officer so he could go to college and become a teacher. But after struggling to find work for months, he finally landed a job in March as a security guard for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which pays $13.50 an hour.
He wants to study at Queens College but does not have enough money to cover his bills, especially with tuition costs at city colleges rising. So he has adjusted his ambitions and may settle on studying criminal justice at a two-year college. But the higher subway fares -- which he estimated would cost him $5 more a month -- do not help.
At 27, Rick Fine is a year older than Mr. Case, but he is at a different stage in life. He is a financial aid representative who makes a bit more than $30,000 a year, and he is preparing to marry. But an increase in the sales tax would affect the cost of an engagement ring and his everyday purchases. And because he would like to buy a home, higher property taxes worry him, too. "My girlfriend is trying to convince me to move to New Jersey," he said.
Marisa Redanty, 48, is a veteran actress who lives in the theater district and has had roles on "Law and Order" and other shows. She is, in many ways, the typical artist: work is intermittent, and she must be prudent in her financial planning. And retirement, she says, is not that far away.
Still, if she had not changed her routine of taking the subway and taxis, and buying items that were more convenient than economical, she would probably be paying an extra $150 a month. As a result, she takes her shopping cart on the subway to load up on toilet paper at Costco, where it is 40 cents a roll, versus 65 cents a roll in grocery stores. She buys her cigarettes online from American Indian reservations, saving about $4.50 a pack.
And she also walks to auditions all the time, thereby saving on her subway expenses. But this means that she probably has to buy a new pair of sneakers to take the pounding.
"I wasn't always like this, but the first thing I think about is money," she said. "I sit down with my calculator and say, 'O.K., what should I do?' "
Then again, this being New York, some people say that they lead lives that have been relatively untouched by the whirlwind of surcharges and fines, as if they had managed to deftly avoid a multiple-car pileup on the highway.
Randy Schrade, 41, a music teacher on the Upper East Side, may fall into this category. While he and his wife (who had a baby three weeks ago) say that they are dining out less and plan to be more careful in their shopping, he also has the fortune of being insulated from many of the increases. He does not smoke. He does not own property. He does not make six figures. He does not own a car that could be ticketed. And he is not too happy about the proposed increase in taxi fares, even though he walks to work.
As for the water taxes, Mr. Schrade said, "We drink bottled."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Randy Schrade, a music teacher, is relatively unaffected by many recent tax increases. He does not smoke or own property. And he does not own a car that could be ticketed. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); SALES TAX (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); TAX LAW (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); TRENDS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; TAXATION; SALES TAX; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



190 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Governor in an Unfamiliar Role: Damage Control 

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 6 

 BODY:
Teflon John is a nickname that Gov. John G. Rowland appeared to enjoy earning during the last eight years, when his popularity seemed immune to controversy. 
 Whether it was the $2,000 fine he paid for improperly accepting free box seats for a Jimmy Buffett concert in 1997, or the conviction of his hand-picked state treasurer on federal corruption charges in 1999, or the loss in 2001 of nearly $200 million in public money in Enron's collapse, no scandal seemed big enough to crack Mr. Rowland's self-confidence or his public standing. 
 Now, however, the Rowland veneer of invincibility seems to be growing thin. 
Since the year began, Mr. Rowland, a Republican who has spent half of his 46 years in elective politics, has struggled to contain damage caused by a worsening state economy and the emergence of several new state and federal investigations into his actions and his administration's. His public approval ratings have plummeted to their lowest point since he took office in 1995. According to a poll of 508 registered voters taken two weeks ago by the University of Connecticut, only one in four thinks Mr. Rowland is doing a good job. 
The negative publicity and his declining popularity have also taken a toll on Mr. Rowland's typically poised public persona. Always quick to defuse criticism with a dismissive quip, the governor has made several public remarks recently that ended up embarrassing his colleagues, unnecessarily angering his adversaries and alienating the Capitol news media.
"He certainly is having a bad few months," said Morton Tenzer, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Connecticut. "He doesn't seem to be handling things as well as he has in the past. He's behaving uncertainly, instead of with his usual aplomb. It's almost like a basketball player who is used to making his shots, and then misses a few and starts to lose confidence, which makes him miss even more shots." 
While Mr. Rowland insists he is unfazed by the recent flurry of bad news, legislative Democrats worry that his low approval ratings will hinder attempts to compromise on budgetary matters. 
Michele Sullivan, Mr. Rowland's spokeswoman, said, "He is accountable and is confident in his leadership, and sometimes being accountable does not mean being infallible." She added: "He is addressing each issue as it comes up. Unfortunately, they are coming up one after the other, and people are combining them instead of looking at them apart."
Political insiders from both parties also said Mr. Rowland has seemed less than the dominating figure who crushed his Democratic opponent in last year's election by a double-digit margin, and certainly not the same college-boy governor who celebrated his inauguration in 1995 by standing on his head and chugging a beer.
Even Republican supporters flinched last week when, during a live radio interview, Mr. Rowland mocked leaders of a clerical workers' union for supposedly failing to demand in recent negotiations that the state rehire workers it had recently laid off. 
In fact, the union had raised the issue, unsuccessfully. The governor's press office released a statement apologizing for his misstatement, but the damage was done. Furious, the union backed out of a contract agreement, dealing a severe blow to Mr. Rowland's efforts to reach a compromise with many of the other unions representing 47,000 state workers. 
Other missteps have left Capitol Democrats and Republican scratching their heads. On Thursday, Mr. Rowland called a news conference to publicly, if cynically, urge the Democratic-led Legislature to pass a 2004 budget with $700 million in tax increases so that he could promptly veto it. "Vote this plan up, allow me to veto it, and let's get down to business," he said. Democratic lawmakers, who have no plans to vote on a budget soon, quietly fumed.
In March, Mr. Rowland, parrying reporters' questions about his former co-chief of staff's recent guilty plea to federal bribery charges, embarrassed his new Department of Correction commissioner, Theresa C. Lantz, during a news conference when he suggested that he could not prevent any state official, including Ms. Lantz, from breaking the law. "If a year from now she does something wrong, how do we know that?" he said, gesturing to Ms. Lantz. 
Mr. Rowland, whose former close adviser and co-chief of staff, Peter N. Ellef, is an object of a federal corruption investigation, has also been dogged by personal ethics issues. 
Last month, the State Ethics Commission began an investigation into the unusually generous prices the governor paid to rent vacation homes owned by a large Connecticut developer and major contributor to Rowland campaigns over the years. In March, Mr. Rowland was forced to admit that he had used a credit card issued to the State Republican Party to pay for a vacation at a New Hampshire resort, and to reimburse the party for the nearly $2,000 expense. 
Ken Dautrich, director of the Center for Survey Research and Analysis at UConn, whose polls have tracked what he called Mr. Rowland's "nose-dive" among voters, said a significant decline in popularity was not surprising. 
"A lot of the drop has been at least partially due to the artificially high rating because of the rally effect after 9/11," he said. 
Kevin B. Sullivan, president pro tem of the State Senate, said Mr. Rowland's recent troubles present not an advantage for Democrats, but rather more problems as the governor seeks to win back support from his Republican base. "I think you're going to see short term, a bit more orchestration of John Rowland the tax killer," he said. "It makes it harder for us to get back to business." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCANDALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); TRENDS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ETHICS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); BASKETBALL (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); VON ZIELBAUER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



191 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: A Renoir Shines as the Spring Art Sales Begin 

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
An 1882 Renoir portrait of a French gentleman's wife sitting in her garden, deemed too daring by the husband who commissioned it because of its bright colors, is heading for Las Vegas.
 Stephen A. Wynn, the casino owner and art collector, bought the painting, "In the Roses (Madame Leon Clapisson)," for $23.5 million last night at Sotheby's sale of Impressionist and modern art. It was the most expensive painting in the sale, bringing just over its $20 million low estimate, and it is to go on view at his gallery in the lobby of the old Desert Inn until Mr. Wynn opens his new casino, Le Reve. 
 At Sotheby's viewing over the weekend, art dealers speculated on what the painting would have fetched in the heady days of the 1980's, when the Japanese snapped up pretty Impressionist paintings like this one for perhaps three times what it brought last night. But the price came as a welcome relief in the auction world. Obtaining property for the important spring evening sales, which began last night, was tough, experts said, because of the war in Iraq, the rocky economy and a general uncertainty as to whether anyone was in the mood to buy art these days.
Even so, the sale had many bumpy moments. Of the 39 lots, 11 failed to find buyers. The auction totaled $65.6 million, below its low estimate of $70 million.
In recent seasons modern art has been the most sought-after, but Impressionist works tended to fare best last night, in part because the better works were Impressionist. One of the stars of the sale was Pissarro's "Road to Rocquencourt" (1871), which captures a slice of rural life at the time the artist had settled in Louveciennes, a middle-class suburb southwest of Paris. It was expected to fetch $3 million to $5 million. Three bidders went for the painting, which eventually sold to Nancy Whyte, a private dealer in Manhattan, for $5.6 million.
(Final prices include Sotheby's commission: 20 percent of the first $100,000 and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston was one of the most important sellers. In an effort to raise $17 million to buy an 1876 Degas that is considered his last important early oil left in private hands, the museum was selling two Degas pastels of dancers and a Renoir painting.
"Dancer" (circa 1885-90), the cover art of the sale catalog, depicts a single dancer about to take her bow. Two bidders vied for the work, which finally sold to an unidentified telephone bidder for $10.6 million, above its low estimate of $9 million.
"Dancers in the Wings" (circa 1888) shows two women, one holding a fan and the other leaning against the stage set. Estimated at $2.5 million to $3.5 million, it sold to another unidentified bidder for $3.9 million. Until recently the painting hung on the walls of the Philadelphia Museum of Art as part of its "Degas and the Dance" exhibition, and it's not going back.
The third work the museum was selling last night was Renoir's "Gabrielle and Coco Playing Dominos" (circa 1905-06), which shows the artist's third son playing dominos with one of Renoir's favorite models. Four bidders went after the painting, which ended up selling for its high estimate, $1.6 million.
The buyers, a couple sitting in the second row of the salesroom who bid on many works of art last night, roused much curiosity during the sale. These days, when conspicuous consumption is out of fashion, most collectors either ask a dealer to bid for them or sit in a skybox above the salesroom, bidding by telephone through an expert below.
The couple identified themselves as Stewart Rahr, president and chief executive of Kinray Inc., a Queens distributor of pharmaceuticals, health care and beauty products, and his wife. Carol. "We've been buying for about five years now," said Mr. Rahr, who also bought Max Liebermann's "My House in Wannsee With Garden" (1926) for $1.5 million, far above its high estimate of $950,000.
Sculpture has been a particularly strong area of the market in recent years, but last night the results were mixed. One evening's casualty was "The Clearing (Composition With Nine Figures)," conceived in 1950, a bronze consisting of nine gaunt female figures on a rectangular base. Despite its estimate of $8 million to $10 million, bidding never went past $7.2 million and it failed to sell.
Tonight Christie's is to auction another cast of the same sculpture, but with a painted surface, which is rarer and thus expected to fetch a high price.
Another high-end work that remained unsold was Malevich's "Suprematist Painting, Rectangle and Circle" (1915). Even though the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum is opening a retrospective of the artist's work next week, nobody wanted the abstract painting, consigned by the artist's heirs, in which a black circle and a blue rectangle are starkly painted against a pure white background. The problem was that it had been shopped around for months, and everyone knew it. Sotheby's estimated the painting would bring $5 million to $7 million, but not a paddle was raised.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Renoir's "In the Roses (Madame Leon Clapisson)," which brought $23.5 million at Sotheby's sale of Impressionist and modern art. (Sotheby's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); DANCERS (88%); CASINOS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); ART COLLECTING (77%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (72%) ART; AUCTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (85%)

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S 

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%)

PERSON: STEPHEN A WYNN (90%) WYNN, STEPHEN A; VOGEL, CAROL; RENOIR, PIERRE-AUGUSTE (1841-1919) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (73%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



192 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Stone Harbor Journal; 
Endangered Bird Finds Friends in High Places

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: STONE HARBOR, N.J., May 1 

 BODY:
Pity the poor piping plover.
 The rare and fragile little shore bird, protected by federal law, has been caught in the middle of an expensive and nasty legal crossfire in this pleasant coastal town about 20 miles south of Atlantic City. 
 On one side are town officials, boaters and many taxpayers. On the other are the United States attorney for New Jersey and two other federal agencies determined to protect nesting plovers on a barren peninsula at the southern tip of town. 
The issue involves tens of thousands of cubic yards of sediment that the town dredged from six bays here in late 2001 and early 2002 and pumped to the peninsula. The bays are lined with lovely summer homes, some worth more than $1 million. Just about everybody has a powerboat or sailboat, and many owners had pressed town officials to remove the sediment, which had formed shoals that damaged propellers and keels.
In January, the United States attorney, Christopher J. Christie, said that the dredging was illegal and that the town violated its permit from the Army Corps of Engineers. The town was accused of dumping too much sediment (79,258 cubic yards instead of the allowed 65,342 cubic yards), refusing to document the origins of the sludge, and reneging on an agreement for complex tests to determine if the sediment contained metals harmful to piping plovers.
Before dredging, the town had assured authorities that the sediment was 75 percent sand, with some traces of toxic mercury. But in his complaint, Mr. Christie called the sediment a very unsandy, puddinglike mix with a crusty top. Before the lawsuit, his aides pressed the town to abide by its earlier agreement for metal tests.
Mayor Suzanne Walters said the town resisted because the tests cost $250,000 and the town's environmental expert had said the sediment had only tiny, nonharmful amounts of metals.
The lawsuit by Mr. Christie's office called for fines of tens of thousands of dollars for each day the violations persisted.
In February, Stone Harbor relented and agreed, in a court-approved settlement of the lawsuit, to remove the sludge by pumping it through a snaking pipeline hundreds of yards away to a trench on nearby Sedge Island.
That work is about to start.
The challenge is to complete the excavation without hurting six pairs of plovers spotted by government biologists in mid-April. The federal Fish and Wildlife Service has been zealous in protecting any of the plovers spotted along the Atlantic Coast since they were placed under the safeguards of the United States Endangered Species Act in 1986. In 2002, 138 pairs of the birds were seen along the Jersey Shore.
Stone Harbor's fight with federal authorities is a rare one.
Anne Hecht, director of the wildlife service's plover-protection program along the Atlantic, said her staff relies on persuasion to help the bird. United States attorneys are rarely used, she said.
Before helping the plovers, Mr. Christie focused on fighting corrupt officials. The plover case offered a chance to protect the beauty, vitality and wildlife of the Jersey Shore, he said.
So far, the matter has cost taxpayers here about $2.75 million, town officials say. The original dredging cost about $1.5 million, and the excavation contract is worth $1 million. The town spent $100,000 for sand to build a court-ordered 4.4-acre nesting site for the birds in March.
And it faces $150,000 in penalties for missing deadlines to finish the excavation by March 31 and April 30.
Many residents are incensed about the costs. Some offer bitter jokes. One heard often is: "Piping plovers are wonderful -- prepared in garlic."
Grumbling abounds.
"This is absolutely a circus, and I don't know who is really to blame," said a resident who lives on Golden Gate Road.
Ellen Vaughn, 80, lives across a narrow waterway from Sedge Island and worries about a summer of odors from sludge.
"I'm sick of the whole thing," she said. "I don't know what's going to happen when they start dumping that muck."
Joan Paulson, of Sunset Drive, said: "The town goofed. It's just very, very sad they wasted so much time and so much money."
John and Ruth Rosser, residents for 50 years, blame federal bureaucrats.
"These people are the Mafia," Mr. Rosser said. "The nonelected officials have gone berserk in this country."
His wife agreed. "They're not willing to listen to anybody but themselves, and there's no way to get rid of them," Mrs. Rosser said.
Tim Keane, manager of the Stone Harbor Marina, said state and federal coastal regulations harm the coastal economy.
The New Jersey Audubon Society disagreed.
"If you lose piping plovers, you lose an essential component of the beach community that people spend millions of dollars a year to enjoy," said the society's vice president for research, David Mizrahi. 
The society's vice president for conservation, Eric Stiles, said the number of people who visit the shore to watch wildlife in the spring, summer and fall is growing, and their presence helps motels and restaurants. Shore towns can help their economies by cooperating with conservation groups, Mr. Stiles said.
Lately, federal authorities seem in a compromising mood. The local office of the wildlife service will permit some disturbance of nesting plovers during sludge removal "as long as it's minimized," said Annette Scherer, an agency biologist.
Michael A. Chagares , chief of the civil division of the United States attorney's office, said no more penalties were being sought for excavation delays, but he refused to rule out contempt-of-court motions.
He said the town was required to use its "best efforts" to finish the work. "We're watching what they're doing very carefully," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Part of the area at Stone Harbor where the plovers nest and dredged sediment from six bays was deposited by the town in 2001 and 2002. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); The town of Stone Harbor, N.J., learned that the piping plover, an endangered species, has legal clout with the federal government. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (91%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MAYORS (77%); SAILING (77%); ENGINEERING (67%); BIOLOGY (64%); ARMIES (55%) BIRDS; PLOVERS (BIRDS); ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BOATS AND BOATING; DREDGES AND DREDGING 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%)

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) STONE HARBOR (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



193 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
SPRINT, UNDER COMPETITIVE PRESSURE, IS CUTTING 575 JOBS

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 The Sprint Corporation will eliminate 575 jobs after competition caused revenue to decline. 
Employees were notified yesterday of the cuts, which amount to less than 1 percent of Sprint's work force of 72,000, a spokeswoman, Melinda Tiemeyer, said. She declined to detail any charge or cost savings. About 100 of the jobs being eliminated are in Kansas City, Mo. The cuts are in Sprint's local- and long-distance phone unit, which has had nine consecutive quarterly sales declines as business customers pare spending and rivals take residential customers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: SPRINT CORP (FON GROUP) (FON) 

TICKER: S (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



194 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
World Cup in U.S. a No-Brainer

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY 

 BODY:
WHAT'S your team? Do you root for your locals or do you reach out for one of those legendary teams that defy regional boundaries -- the Yankees, the Montreal Canadiens, the Miami Hurricanes? 
 Some fans even show imagination by rooting for not necessarily glamorous teams from other parts of the country. There are New Yorkers who like the Detroit Tigers, the Cleveland Browns, the Los Angeles Clippers -- just because. 
 As a licensed practitioner of sportswriting, I am legally barred from actively rooting for any team. Since developing a major soccer jones in the last two decades, however, I now indulge myself in rooting for a few teams outside North America, just to feel what fans go through. 
I am currently heavily involved in the fortunes of West Ham, from the Dickensian tidal flats east of London, which will try to avoid relegation on the final weekend. And despite its being owned by Silvio Berlusconi, A.C. Milan has been a favorite of mine ever since I witnessed Franco Baresi, Ruud Gullit and Frank Rijkaard wearing the handsome red-and-black uniforms a decade ago.
Jealous as heck that we do not have ancient soccer teams like that in my home country, I have followed both teams' soap operas this season on the Internet and on cable television and in the foreign papers available in the big city.
To further pursue this addiction, yesterday I was sitting in my favorite Greenwich Village cafe, L'Angolo on Houston Street, watching good old ESPN2 as Real Madrid beat Juventus, 2-1, in the first leg of their Champions League semifinal. 
My friend Massimo, who loves his team from Florence, had no problem rooting for Juventus of Turin. But my friend Riccardo has rooted for A.C. Milan all his life and could not bring himself to root for striped Juve, the Yankees of Italy. And Pino, the proprietor, roots for Inter, which plays A.C. Milan in the other semifinal today (although not on ESPN2, the dogs).
It is a grand time of year to be a soccer buff. Too bad one cannot take a trolley out to the match. The MetroStars are home in New Jersey this Saturday and the Power is home on Long Island this Saturday, however, as the two American leagues roll into high gear. 
There are, bless 'em, a loyal cadre of fans of both Major League Soccer and the Women's United Soccer Association, even if the two leagues still seem raw and impermanent. You can't even work up a good disdain for individual owners because the leagues practice socialism.
The success of the United States men's team in last year's World Cup made modest heroes of appealing young players like Clint Mathis, Landon Donovan and DaMarcus Beasley. The caliber of the league is rising, but attendance is not taking off, and our locals, the MetroStars, have been a pretty awful franchise, rattling around in Giants Stadium. They're not A.C. Milan yet. They're not the Hammers. 
The women's league, in its third season, is even shakier. In this weak economy, there isn't much tolerance for good intentions. The Power has gone from mediocre to dreadful, and it has already jettisoned two coaches and one general manager.
For all the problems, the W.U.S.A. is the best paying and highest level of women's soccer in the world. The game itself is attractive (they're not as big or fast as the men; get over it) and the players are skillful, charismatic, smart and friendly. 
The league carries the hopes of women from across the world, providing jobs and competition for Brazilians and Nigerians, Chinese and Norwegians, Yanks and Canadians. Just as important, the W.U.S.A.'s existence helps justify soccer programs for girls in many nations where sports leaders may not think it important. 
But the W.U.S.A. cannot exist indefinitely as filler programming on marginal cable channels. It needs some buzz.
Now there is a chance to provide the buzz. This year's Women's World Cup cannot be held in China because of the SARS scare. The world soccer body, FIFA, is said to be mulling four countries as replacements, but there is really only one choice.
Everybody remembers what Americans did in 1999 with years of planning. It is getting late, but American promoters could fill lesser stadiums, even in September, with our glut of sports.
The executives of the W.U.S.A. bravely insist they don't need this World Cup to survive, but they do. Given this unfortunate opportunity, the league needs one more infusion of Mia and Brandi and all the emerging foreign stars.
One of these decades, some of the W.U.S.A. teams could be known around the world, a lucrative beacon to international stars. For now, Forza Milan! Go Hammers! 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Moving this fall's Women's World Cup to the United States would give the world another chance to see Mia Hamm, left, and her teammates. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); SARS (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (74%) SOCCER; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN); SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); WORLD CUP (SOCCER) 

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL CANADIENS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI (FLORIDA) (84%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (57%); DETROIT TIGERS (57%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (57%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (52%) VECSEY, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); TURIN, ITALY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (91%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); ITALY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



195 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Fed Worries About Prices, But Holds Rate 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve held short-term interest rates steady today, but took the unusual step of saying that it had become worried about the risks of a sustained fall in prices, commonly known as deflation. 
 The statement signals that the Fed stands ready to cut rates soon if the economy does not quickly recover from its recent weakness, and it suggests that some officials at the Fed remain considerably more nervous about the economy than Alan Greenspan, the chairman. 
 In announcing that it was keeping the benchmark interest rate on overnight loans between banks at 1.25 percent, the Federal Open Market Committee -- the Fed's rate-setting group -- acknowledged that companies had recently cut both production and employment.
"However, the ebbing of geopolitical tensions has rolled back oil prices, bolstered consumer confidence and strengthened debt and equity markets," the committee said. Those developments "should foster an improving economic climate over time." 
The chief danger facing the economy, the Fed said, is that inflation, which is already low, will fall further as demand for new products remains weak. Many economists say they believe that deflation can cripple an economy by effectively increasing debt levels and causing consumers to reduce their spending in anticipation of future bargains. Low inflation, on the other hand, is widely considered to be the ideal situation.
Stocks, after having risen in the morning, moved little after the announcement at 2:15 p.m. that rates would not change, which most analysts had expected. The dollar, however, accelerated its recent decline and fell 1.2 percent against the euro. Traders attributed the sharp move to the Fed's concern about potential deflation. Page C9. 
The worried tone of the Fed's announcement appeared to shed light on an emerging disagreement between Mr. Greenspan and some of his colleagues. 
Together, the statement and a unanimous vote in favor of holding rates unchanged "has 'compromise' written all over it," said Ian C. Shepherdson, the chief domestic economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y.
Mr. Greenspan has argued that the war in Iraq caused many of the recent economic problems, like rising layoffs. With oil prices having fallen and a protracted war no longer a possibility, consumers and executives will probably accelerate their spending, lifting the economy from its long slump this year, Mr. Greenspan suggested to Congress last week.
Some other Fed officials remain nervous that companies are still cutting costs to recover from the excesses of the 1990's boom. At some point, the weakening labor market could cause consumers to pull back their spending and make the economy vulnerable to a new downturn, officials have said in recent speeches. 
"This economic recovery has been losing momentum since last summer," Anthony M. Santomero, the president of the Philadelphia Fed, said last month. "Not all of this can be laid at the feet of the Iraq situation. Other events and imbalances were and are still at work."
But the officials' concerns were not big enough for them to favor a rate cut today, or at least for them to take a public stand by voting for one. Mr. Greenspan, like previous Fed chairmen, has long preferred to keep most debates within the Fed's boardroom and to shape compromises that allow for unanimous votes.
"I think there's disagreement on the board," said Joel L. Prakken, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm in St. Louis. "Greenspan's made it pretty clear that he thinks the main problem is geopolitical uncertainty from which we'll recover."
In March, at its previous meeting, the Fed also left rates unchanged, but it refused to characterize the risks of a downturn, saying the impending war with Iraq created too much uncertainty. 
Today, the Fed went into more detail than it typically does when describing the risks facing the economy. It called the upside and downside risks to sustainable growth "roughly equal," suggesting that a new recession this year was no more likely than an unhealthy spike in growth. But weakness remains a bigger worry than an overheated economy because of the small possibility of an "unwelcome substantial fall in inflation," the Fed said, not using the word deflation. 
Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley, called the new detail "a change in the way Fed communicates."
He added, "It's an important and welcome step in the Fed moving toward a more understandable policy."
The Fed began to cut its benchmark interest rate in January 2001, soon after unemployment started rising and the record-long expansion of the 1990's ended. Since then, the Fed has cut the rate 12 times, to 1.25 percent, its lowest level since 1961.
By lowering the cost of automobile, credit-card and other short-term loans -- and indirectly causing some of the fall in mortgage rates -- the reductions helped make the recession of 2001 one of the mildest on record. But to the surprise of Mr. Greenspan and most of his colleagues, who have regularly predicted a return to healthy growth over the last two years, the economy has remained in a rut, growing too slowly for companies to hire new workers.
The slow growth has also pushed down annual inflation to between 1.5 percent and 3 percent, depending on the measure, and raised fears that the economy could slip into a deflationary trap similar to the one hurting Japan. Echoing the opinion of most economists, the Fed called the risk minor today, but officials have said that they want to be vigilant because, having studied Japan's experience, they consider deflation harder to reverse than to prevent.
"We're living in amazing times," said Ian Morris, the chief domestic economist at HSBC. Deflation "has never been an issue since the 1930's," he added.
Most private-sector forecasters also expect the economy to gain strength in the coming months, but many say that they have already been surprised by the long slowdown.
"There's a lot to suggest that the precursors to a second-half recovery are falling into place," Mr. Prakken said. "But there's no evidence of an actual rebound. There's a lot of uncertainty. It's difficult to make a good forecast in a postbubble environment."
The Fed's rate-setting committee next meets on June 24 and 25. Forecasters are divided over whether a cut is likely then, although most seem to expect no change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DEFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); EURO (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); IRAQ WAR (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



196 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Senator Graham of Florida Begins Run for Presidency 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: MIAMI LAKES, Fla., May 6 

 BODY:
Senator Bob Graham, a Democrat from the state that was the fulcrum of the disputed 2000 presidential election, began his own White House campaign today by asserting that President Bush had "virtually ignored homeland security" in his drive to "settle old scores" and remove Saddam Hussein from power.
 In a speech to supporters standing in wilting heat in the prim middle-class development his family built on its southern Florida farm here, Mr. Graham also said Mr. Bush had wasted the strong economy he inherited. The senator described Mr. Bush's tax cuts as a threat to the health of the nation's economy. 
 "The Bush administration has reneged on our promise and jeopardized our future," Mr. Graham said, reading slowly from prepared remarks.
"The last Democratic administration not only put us on the path towards fiscal solvency, it produced the biggest budget surpluses in the history of our nation," he said. "The Bush administration has squandered all of that. We need a president who will fight for our nation's economic future instead of the short-term interest of a special few." 
Mr. Graham, a three-term senator who at 66 is the oldest of the candidates running, offered the case for his candidacy in an announcement speech that had been delayed both by the war in Iraq and by heart surgery that included a double bypass and valve replacement using the valve of a Holstein cow. 
He delivered his 24-minute speech in a picture-perfect town square on Main Street less than a mile from his home in this planned development. Mr. Graham had been planning to go from here to New Hampshire and Iowa, but delayed the trip to return to Washington for a Senate committee meeting, a reminder of the difficulties he and five other Democratic members of Congress face in trying to run for president.
Mr. Graham is one of nine Democrats seeking their party's presidential nomination. He is the third to deliver a formal announcement speech, after Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut.
Mr. Graham's speech today was notable for the harshness of his attacks on Mr. Bush's Iraq policy. Seizing a theme that drew him notice as a member of the Intelligence Committee after the 2001 attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Mr. Graham argued that Mr. Bush had put Americans at increased risk for a terrorist attack at home by focusing on Iraq, a country that Mr. Graham said was not the greatest threat to the United States today.
"I know firsthand, as the former chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, how little this administration has done to provide real security at home, while it's directed attention away from the war on terrorism abroad," he said, adding, "Yet, instead of pursuing the most imminent and real threats, international terrorists, this Bush administration chose to settle old scores."
Mr. Graham told reporters later that the "old scores" he was referring to were what he described as the finishing of the war against Mr. Hussein that Mr. Bush's father started in 1991, and avenging a plot by Mr. Hussein to assassinate the elder Mr. Bush.
The tough words attacking President Bush's security and economic policies were delivered in a languorous and at times halting speech that left many supporters squirming in the midday sun. 
Many Democrats view Mr. Graham as a largely enigmatic force. He has many ingredients of a formidable candidate. He is a moderate Southerner with extensive foreign policy experience in the Senate and two terms as Florida governor. And he has the geographic advantage of coming from the state that Democrats believe they should have won, along with the presidency, in 2000, a point that Mr. Graham's advisers invariably return to in presenting him as the strongest candidate the Democrats could put up against Mr. Bush.
"This is clearly the most competitive state in the nation," Mr. Graham said today.
Yet Mr. Graham has not engaged in a competitive race since 1986, and his campaign skills remain in question. His habit of keeping detailed daily notebooks of the most trivial events of his day led advisers to Al Gore to reject him as a running mate, concerned that some voters might consider that behavior odd.
What is more, Mr. Graham joins this contest well after many opponents have spent months in the field, collecting money, signing up supporters, developing themes and learning basic campaign skills. Mr. Graham had originally planned to begin his campaign on Feb. 4.
In a sign of the tentativeness with which, it seems, even Mr. Graham views his prospects, he repeatedly declined to say he would not run for Senate in 2004, leaving himself an out in case his presidential campaign founders. Given all the obstacles to the nomination, many Democrats in opposing camps say they believe that Mr. Graham's real interest is to be considered for the second spot on the ticket, but Mr. Graham dismissed such speculation today as unfounded.
Mr. Graham's advisers went to considerable lengths to stage a vigorous rally to begin his candidacy. 
"This is the moment we've all been waiting for: the next first lady and the 44th president of the United States!" Scott Maddox, the Florida Democratic chairman who served as master of ceremonies, bellowed as Mr. Graham and his wife, Adele, appeared. 
They took the stage, to the amplified pulsing beat of a song by the band U2, "Where the Streets Have No Name," which has become an anthem at Democratic campaign rallies.
On the stage were men and women with whom Mr. Graham has appeared during what he calls "work days" -- in which he spends a day working to get a feel for different jobs, like driving a truck or working in a factory. Mr. Graham plans to hold a work day in New Hampshire, this time in the role of a teacher.
Mr. Graham's speech was filled with remarks intended to paint Mr. Bush's administration as a White House for the wealthy.
"It is time to bring America back -- from one of our longest economic slowdowns ever, and the only economic slowdown since when the last Bush was in the White House," he said. "It is painfully clear that this president has no economic policy other than granting tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, spoke yesterday in Miami Lakes, Fla., attacking Bush domestic security and economic policies. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); BUDGETS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (70%); TAX LAW (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: LINDSEY GRAHAM (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



197 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
A new start, a new name. But have things really changed as Kmart comes out of bankruptcy?

BYLINE:  By Constance L. Hays

 BODY:
FIFTEEN months after filing for bankruptcy protection, Kmart yesterday completed its reorganization and today will become a publicly traded company once more -- a much smaller one, under new management and control, with a future that remains unclear.
 The company, renamed the Kmart Holding Corporation, called the emergence "a momentous day for Kmart." But inside the Kmart on West 34th Street in Manhattan at lunchtime, shoppers were buying clothes and a drawing for free jewelry was taking place; there were no signs that the nation's biggest retail bankruptcy had come and gone. 
 Perhaps that was appropriate, because, from Kmart's point of view, little about the world of retailing has improved since it entered Chapter 11 early last year. Wal-Mart Stores remains the leader among discounters, with Target overshadowing Kmart in sales as well. Stores like Kohl's that offer brand-name goods at low prices in settings considered a step up from the usual discount environment are growing fast and often at the expense of Kmart. 
Many suppliers that were angered by Kmart's treatment of them -- including a program known as Project Slow It Down, which relied on phony excuses and other means to intentionally delay payments, according to an internal Kmart investigation -- are still owed money. They will receive stock in the new company, however, and are part of a trust that can seek legal action against former Kmart management. 
The slumping economy is no friend to retailing, curbing sales at most chains in recent weeks. In addition, an exclusive Kmart brand, Martha Stewart Everyday, has been swept up in the government investigation of Martha Stewart's stock trading. Executives of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, in discussing the company's first-quarter performance last week, said sales at Kmart fell $800,000. Citing the chain's store closings, they predicted sales for the year would come in below the minimum guaranteed by Martha Stewart's contract with Kmart. 
Despite all that, Edward S. Lampert, the hedge fund manager who bought Kmart debt and accelerated the timetable for its exit from bankruptcy, said Kmart could and would perform better. He dismissed the falling shopper traffic as inconsequential and said the company would be run to make profits.
"The focus that a lot of people have in retail revolves around sales," Mr. Lampert said in an interview, "but sales without profit do not allow a business to be successful in the long term."
Yesterday, the board of Kmart appointed him chairman.
With fewer stores -- Kmart is down to about 1,500 stores from 2,100 before its bankruptcy filing -- the company has a better chance of turning those profits, he added. "The bankruptcy process allowed the company to position its store base so that what remains has a chance of being really successful," he said. 
One Kmart supplier said yesterday that it continued to press him to make concessions that were favorable to Kmart, much as it had before the bankruptcy. "They want to buy products, and they want us to ship them, and then they want 60 days to pay the bills," said the supplier, who insisted upon anonymity.
As Kmart's troubles mounted, the supplier insisted on being paid promptly for products he delivered. Now, he said, "they are punishing vendors who have said they will not extend open-account credit." 
Kmart's initial plan called for it to emerge from bankruptcy by July 2003. When Mr. Lampert acquired his stake after buying up bonds and other debt, he urged Kmart management to speed the process with a deadline of April 30. He got what he wanted, a week late. Mr. Adamson was forced out as chief executive in January. He was succeeded by Julian C. Day, a financial expert who has worked at Sears, Roebuck, among other companies. 
One retail expert said he thought Kmart had emerged too quickly. "You are bringing a company out that is still fundamentally flawed," said Burt Flickinger, a managing partner with the Strategic Resource Group, which advises stores. "If they had stayed in bankruptcy, they could have fixed all the infrastructure and buying and warehousing and transportation issues that continue to produce negative same-store sales" -- sales at stores open at least a year.
Mr. Lampert, whose ESL Investments put an additional $140 million into Kmart to win control of it along with Martin J. Whitman of Third Avenue Partners, said he saw no need to recast its image to compete with Wal-Mart and Target. Among discounters, Wal-Mart is known as the low-price leader, and Target as the store for the trend-conscious. 
"The image is different to different people," Mr. Lampert said. "When you look at a company that does $25 billion in sales, it means something to a lot of people."
Under Charles C. Conaway, the former chief executive who left Kmart last year, it was positioned as a source for mothers to buy products for their homes and families. Under James B. Adamson, who succeeded Mr. Conaway, it experimented with new store formats and strategies. 
Kmart represents an unusual foray into a distressed business for Mr. Lampert and ESL Partners. "We've always tried to invest in companies that were doing pretty well," he said. "In this case, you had a situation where there was a pretty big disconnect between what we thought Kmart could be in the marketplace and what was actually happening."
As Kmart moves ahead, he said, there will be no excuses. "It will have to perform, and we think it will."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); BRANDING (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (93%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: KMART CORP (KM) 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%); MSO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (53%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (79%); MARTHA STEWART (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



198 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Budget Chief Leaving, Most Likely for Indiana Race 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6 

 BODY:
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr. said today that he was stepping down as the White House budget director, and Republicans said he was all but certain to return to his home state, Indiana, to run for governor.
 His resignation, effective in 30 days, completes an overhaul in the top ranks of President Bush's original economic team, including the forced departure late last year of Paul H. O'Neill as Treasury secretary and Lawrence B. Lindsey as director of the National Economic Council. 
 Mr. Daniels, in contrast, had remained a favorite of the president, who called him Blade for his budget-cutting fervor. Last month the president, Vice President Dick Cheney and Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, walked into a meeting with Mr. Daniels in the Roosevelt Room, across the hall from the Oval Office, wearing buttons saying "My Man Mitch," teasing the budget director about the effort by some Republicans in Indiana to draft him to run for governor. 
"He has been a really good watchdog of the taxpayers' money," Mr. Bush told reporters today. "I'm going to miss him. On the other hand, this administration's loss is the gain of the people of Indiana."
Mr. Daniels was much less popular on Capitol Hill, where he made enemies in both parties with his sometimes acerbic advocacy of limited government and his efforts to pry from Congress additional power over spending.
But while he has been a champion of holding down spending, the expenses of fighting and defending against terrorism led him to shepherd through Congress some of the biggest increases in decades. Despite his reputation as tightfisted, he oversaw the budget during a period when it swung from huge projected surpluses to large deficits, and he will be leaving Washington as Democrats step up their attacks on what they describe as the White House's fiscal mismanagement. 
In an interview tonight, Mr. Daniels said he did not want to talk about his plans or confirm that he would run for governor. "I'm going to give President Bush 30 more days of hard work," he said. "Then I'm going to load up the car and think about the future when I get home."
There was no word from the White House on a successor. Initial speculation centered on Mr. Daniels's deputy, Clay Johnson, one of Mr. Bush's oldest friends, though some administration officials said the president was likely to consider candidates with deeper experience in the complex policy and politics of the budget.
Republican Party officials in Indiana said Mr. Daniels had not made a formal decision to enter the 2004 race for governor. But they said that they expected him to do so and that if he did, he would be a formidable candidate in a state that has been reliably Republican in presidential politics but where Democrats have been strong in statewide races.
"Mitch has the intellectual ability, the political acumen and the business management experience to move Indiana into the 21st century," said Jim Kittle, chairman of the Indiana Republican Party.
Mr. Kittle -- who ended a telephone interview this morning by saying he had to take a call from Mr. Daniels -- said he was not offering an endorsement or favoring Mr. Daniels over other Republican candidates. But he said a decision by Mr. Daniels to enter the race would almost certainly lead some of the other Republicans to give way. There are already four declared Republican candidates to replace the Democratic governor, Frank L. O'Bannon, barred by Indiana law from seeking a third term. They include David McIntosh, a former member of Congress who lost to Mr. O'Bannon in 2000 by 15 percentage points.
The Democratic candidates include Joe Andrew, former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, and Vi Simpson, a state senator.
Mr. Daniels has been exploring the possibility of a race for governor for some time, and his long ties to the most popular Republican in Indiana, Senator Richard G. Lugar, would help him mobilize support among party activists and overcome a relatively low public profile. 
Mr. Lugar issued a statement today hinting at support for Mr. Daniels, who worked for him as an aide when Mr. Lugar was mayor of Indianapolis and who then followed him to Washington as a Senate aide.
"I look forward to finding new opportunities in which we can serve the people of Indiana, together, even more effectively," Mr. Lugar said. 
Mr. Daniels has also served as the White House's political director, during the Reagan administration, and later as a senior executive of the pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly & Company, based in Indianapolis. Throughout his time as budget director, he has commuted regularly to his Indianapolis home, where his wife and four daughters lived while he stayed in an undecorated apartment in Washington.
"I've got nothing on the walls, I always say, for two reasons," Mr. Daniels remarked last year. "One, I want the damage deposit back, and secondly, whenever this job is over, I'll be gone quickly." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); TERRORISM (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



199 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: BUDGETS IN CRISIS: CENSUS; 
A Wide Income Gap Separates Commuters and City Residents

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal to reinstitute a commuter tax may have expired in Albany, but an analysis of new census data suggests that suburbanites who commute to New York City are much better off on average than other New Yorkers and might not have been in a bad position to pay.
 The statistics, analyzed by Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College, show that people who commute from the New York suburbs to the city make far more money, are more educated and more likely to have jobs in fields like finance, management and the professions. 
 The average suburban commuter earned $75,439, according to the data from the 2000 census released last month. The average for city residents who work in the city was $41,889, and for suburbanites working in the suburbs, $41,031. 
The census also shows that the commuters are more likely than others to be white, male and married. Nearly one in four had an advanced degree, and nearly 55 percent had completed college at a minimum.
Comparable 2000 figures for commuters from New Jersey and Connecticut are not yet available. But the 1990 census shows a similar pattern: people from New Jersey and Connecticut who commuted to New York City made much more than those who did not.
Mr. Bloomberg proposed reinstituting an income tax on commuters last November in an attempt to help close the city's budget deficit for the fiscal year that begins July 1. Gov. George E. Pataki opposed the idea, saying it would be damaging to the economy and would inhibit recovery.
Last week, the State Legislature promised more than $1 billion in new revenue for New York City as part of a budget plan that Mr. Pataki said he would veto. The plan would entail an increase in the sales tax and a temporary surcharge on state residents who make $150,000 or more. It does not include a commuter tax.
Asked whether the census data called into question any suggestion that the tax would impose an inordinate burden on suburban commuters, Joe Conway, the press secretary to Mr. Pataki, said, "The governor has made it clear that given the fragile nature of the economy, he's going to continue looking to other ways to help the city." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VETO (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%) TAXATION; COMMUTING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) SCOTT, JANNY; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 



200 of 896 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Dollar Plunge Accelerates On Worries About Economy
The dollar plunged and the bond market rallied after Federal Reserve policy makers said that the two risks ahead are further economic weakness and, possibly, a sharp fall in inflation. The stock market gave up some gains but finished the day higher.
 Fed policy makers, as expected, left the central bank's benchmark federal funds rate at 1.25 percent. What surprised bond and currency markets was the Fed's concern about prices falling further. Page C9. 

Tax Cut Plans Proceed in Congress
Republican leaders in the Senate offered a tax-cut plan that would temporarily suspend taxes on stock dividends and then reinstate them in three years. The House Ways and Means Committee approved a very different and more costly approach to tax reduction. A28.

Bush Signs Singapore Trade Pact
President Bush signed a free-trade agreement with Singapore, his first since Congress granted him trade promotion authority last summer and the largest since the North American Free Trade Agreement. C4.

Kmart Emerges From Bankruptcy
Kmart, which filed for bankruptcy protection 15 months ago, completed its reorganization, but emerged as a smaller company with an uncertain future. Market Place. C9.

Damages Awarded in Music Suit
The Island Def Jam Music Group and its chief executive were ordered to pay $132 million in damages to an independent record label after a jury found them liable for bad business practices. C5.

Publisher Named for New Magazine
Conde Nast hired Alan Katz, the publisher of New York magazine, to be publisher of a new shopping magazine for men modeled after Lucky, its magazine for women. C5.

Budget Director to Step Down
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., left, will be leaving his job as the White House budget director in 30 days. His resignation completes an overhaul in the top ranks of President Bush's economic team, including the forced departure late last year of Paul H. O'Neill as Treasury secretary and Lawrence B. Lindsey as director of the National Economic Council. A28.

Marriott Wins a Round in Court
A judge in New Orleans has declined to issue a temporary restraining order against Marriott International to prevent it from managing a luxury property in the city. C4.

New Subscribers Bolster EchoStar
EchoStar, owner of the Dish Network satellite TV service, had a first-quarter profit of $58 million after attracting a surge of new subscribers. EchoStar had 8.53 million subscribers at the end of March. C2.

Waste From India Coming to U.S.
Tons of hazardous waste from an abandoned thermometer factory owned by Hindustan Lever, India's largest consumer products company, is heading to a recycling plant in the United States for safe disposal. A13.

Expanded Role Seen for Halliburton
An emergency contract the Bush administration gave Halliburton to extinguish Iraqi oil fires also gave the company a lucrative role in helping repair the country's oil system. C13.

Niche Markets Dominate in Boston
Development in the niche markets of life-science research, academia and hotels is flourishing in Boston. Commercial Real Estate. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,588.36 up 56.79Nasdaq composite -- 1,523.71 up 19.6710-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.78% down 0.11The euro -- $1.1417 up 0.0137The dollar -- 117.67 yen down 0.96 Graph: "TODAY" shows Consumer Borrowing since September.March figures due at 3:00 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$3.3 billion Graph tracks Euro in dollars since Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); DAMAGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (84%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); APPROVALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MEN (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WOMEN (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); JURY TRIALS (71%); VERDICTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (67%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); JUDGES (66%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (64%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (82%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (81%); ISLAND DEF JAM MUSIC GROUP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (82%); MAR (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (82%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (81%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (81%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); MITCH DANIELS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); INDIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003 

 
