

401 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Defending a Blurred Line: Is It Spam or Just a Company Marketing by E-Mail? 

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
When a torrent of unsolicited e-mail arrives with cut-rate promotions for pheromone cologne and mint-flavored Viagra, a volunteer foreign legion of antispam warriors is ready to fight back with its most lethal weapon: blacklists.
 But lately, online global guardians like the Spamhaus Project are facing fierce challenges to their blacklists, or blocklists, which are intended to help businesses and Internet service providers filter out the worst spammers from Ukraine to the United States.
 The Spamhaus Project, which has battled computer viruses along with an online attack last month that shut down its Web site, is now confronting a new kind of siege. An American marketer is complaining that the organization exacts a vigilante style of online justice carried out by anonymous, unaccountable volunteers.
 From suburban Chicago, David Linhardt, president of a small marketing company, E360insight.com, is pressing to suspend Spamhaus's Internet address until it complies with a September ruling in Illinois federal court. The ruling ordered Spamhaus to post a Web site notice saying that E360 was not a spammer and to pay E360 $11.7 million in damages. 
 The Web address suspension appears unlikely for now, because last week the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, which presides over domain names, signaled that it lacked the authority to suspend the address of Spamhaus, a nonprofit company based in London. Still, the legal battle underscores the tricky nature of defining spam and of creating standards for monitoring groups.
 Spamhaus, which was formed in 1998 and is operated by 25 volunteers around the world, is one of many spam-busters that emerged around the same time to aid Internet service providers and businesses desperate to filter out spam before it reached consumers. Their mission is to offer antispam protection for Internet networks to stave off an onslaught of unsolicited bulk e-mail, which is how they define spam. But international authorities have yet to agree precisely on the definition of spam, leaving antispam groups vulnerable to challenges.
 Most European countries require prior consent from recipients before a sender can transmit bulk e-mail messages to them. The United States and Japan favor a freedom-of-commerce approach that does not require advance consent but does offer a choice to unsubscribe from mass mailings.
 However spam is defined, the volunteers are having an impact; in the last quarter of 2005, 203 billion e-mail messages were filtered and prevented from being delivered; 61 billion of those were blocked by blacklisting, according to a report released in April by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which has 30 countries as members.
 The report also noted that the quality of antispam blacklists varied widely, partly because of the absence of a general code for evaluating them. It found that many lists ''are poorly managed, abandoned or of dubious integrity: names can be added quickly, the applied criteria may be unclear, and the removal from the list may be virtually impossible.''
 In Britain, the Department of Trade and Industry is in discussions with Spamhaus to make the system of blacklisting aggressive marketers more transparent, with a well-defined procedure for those who want to challenge their placement on the lists.
 Spamhaus is arguably the most prominent group tracking spammers, according to officials of various governments who specialize in the issue.
 Combing newspapers, public records and incorporation filings, Spamhaus keeps several lists of top offenders, including a registry of ''known spam operations,'' companies that it says have been ousted by three or more Internet service providers because of spamming.
 ''Spamhaus.org blocks 50 billion spams per day,'' Steve Linford, its chief executive, said in an e-mail message, citing a figure that far exceeds O.E.C.D. estimates. ''The effect of 650 million e-mail boxes suddenly receiving such a barrage of illegal spam, scams and bank phishes is extremely dangerous.''
 Mr. Linhardt, the president of E360insight, never got top billing on the ''known spam operations'' list, but his name and his company were included in information about another person accused of spamming. Mr. Linhardt said that when he tried to challenge his inclusion, he found it difficult to reach anyone directly at Spamhaus, forcing him to make his appeals in a series of increasingly heated e-mail exchanges with people he could not speak to.
 ''We tried to resolve this amicably,'' Mr. Linhardt said in a telephone interview, saying he first came under Spamhaus's scrutiny in 2003. ''They basically just respond, 'stop spamming, spammer.' They call you names, and they threaten you. I don't know even know who is responding. They say they have a network of volunteers, but who are they to be regulating U.S. companies?''
 Spamhaus protects the identities of its volunteers and board members because spammers would try to attack them online if their names were known, Richard Cox, a spokesman for the Spamhaus Project, said in a telephone interview. 
 Spamhaus listens to companies' appeals, said Mr. Linford, the chief executive.
 ''One spam can be a mistake,'' he said. ''For example, a company may have hired a rogue marketer. But months of spamming bulk adverts to millions, combined with illegal spamming via hijacked computers, is very hard to explain. We also offer advice on how to stop spamming and how to send bulk e-mail responsibly.''
 In the case of E360, Mr. Linford said Mr. Linhardt had ''refused to stop spamming, saying that his spam was 'not spam' because his definition of the word 'spam' was different from that of ours and the Internet industry.''
 In the United States, the Can-Spam Act of 2003 permits bulk e-mailing as long as messages are marked as advertising and include a way for the recipient to decline them. Mr. Linhardt says that when he sends out bulk mailings for clients, like BargainDepot.net, his company sends messages only to people who have signed up for e-mail alerts on that Web site.
 Spamhaus scoffs at his claims, saying it has collected samples of Mr. Linhardt's e-mail messages sent to some of the group's own investigators, along with examples sent in by Internet users who said they never agreed to accept such material.
 Spamhaus did not defend itself in the United States court case because it argued that the court lacked jurisdiction over a British group.
 In its September ruling, the court ordered Spamhaus to stop offering blacklist information to block E360's e-mail until it provided ''convincing evidence'' that the Chicago company had violated federal spam law. The court, in its default judgment, also demanded that Spamhaus post a message on its Web site saying that E360 had been erroneously listed as a spammer, and awarded E360 the $11.7 million in compensatory damages.
 Spamhaus said last week: ''We are working with lawyers to find a way to both appeal the ruling and stop further nonsense by this spammer.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Spamhaus's home page. It uses 25 volunteers to identify spam, which one American company claimed was a kind of online vigilante justice.
 Steve Linford, chief executive of Spamhaus.org, which he said blocked 50 billion junk e-mail messages daily. (Photo by Steve Forrest/Insight-Visual, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMAIL MARKETING (93%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SPAM REGULATION (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); DOMAIN NAMES (77%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); DAMAGES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LITIGATION (67%) Computers and the Internet; Electronic Mail; International Trade and World Market; Advertising and Marketing; Suits and Litigation; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (55%) E360insight.com ; Spamhaus Project (Orgn)

PERSON: Doreen Carvajal

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006



402 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: A Maverick Who Worries Both Parties

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: BUFFALO 

 BODY:
Jack Davis, the multimillionaire businessman running here in western New York to unseat one of the most powerful Republicans in Congress, makes his fellow Democrats a little nervous.
 Mr. Davis is prone to overstatement. He has warned about ''Red China,'' for example, and suggested he would take a bat to anyone who sent his sons sexually explicit e-mail messages like those a congressman sent to young male pages.
He defies liberal orthodoxies. He has said he wants to ''seal'' the nation's borders and has held memberships in conservative groups like the Cato Institute and the Heritage Foundation. 
 And he is a bit of a maverick. He has banished his handlers from the room when a reporter interviews him, and he has yet to invite any national party luminary to campaign with him in the district. 
 His behavior unsettles some Democrats as they seek a prize trophy: the defeat of Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, the chairman of the Republican re-election committee in the House of Representatives. 
 ''It keeps me up at night,'' said one Democratic operative familiar with Mr. Davis's independent streak. ''And I'm sure I'm not the only one who stays up at night worried about what he'll say next.''
 And with good reason. Democrats in New York and Washington suddenly have a lot riding on Mr. Davis and the relatively unorthodox campaign he has put together using his own money. After months of being written off as a long-shot candidate, Mr. Davis is in what polls indicate is an increasingly tight race with Mr. Reynolds. The independent Cook Political Report is now rating the Reynolds-Davis race a ''tossup.''
 Mr. Davis's fortunes changed almost overnight, after Mr. Reynolds and other top Republicans acknowledged in late September that they had been aware for months of unusual e-mail exchanges between Representative Mark Foley, a Florida Republican, and a former teenage page.
 Mr. Reynolds has tried to tamp down the controversy, holding news conferences to explain himself and even running a television advertisement saying that he had alerted Speaker J. Dennis Hastert last spring when he first learned of the e-mail messages between Mr. Foley and the young page. Yet questions about whether he did enough to stop Mr. Foley are continuing to dog Mr. Reynolds, and he has not been a particularly visible figure on the campaign trail in recent weeks.
 But one big wild card for Democrats is Mr. Davis, who captured 44 percent of the vote in his 2004 loss to Mr. Reynolds and who has vowed to spend $2 million of his own money to defeat him this time around. Top party officials privately acknowledge that this is one race that they will have difficulty shaping, given Mr. Davis's independent streak.
 ''This one is in God's hands,'' said one party official, a national Democratic strategist who did not want to be seen as chastising the party's own candidate. 
 Anyone who has followed Mr. Davis's career should find none of this particularly surprising. In 2004, he left the Republican Party after a bitter dispute that has become the stuff of banter, if not exactly lore, among political types here.
 The rift partly stemmed from an episode that occurred at a fund-raiser he attended that featured Vice President Dick Cheney. Mr. Cheney's aides asked Mr. Davis to leave after he began talking to reporters about an advertisement he had bought in the local newspaper criticizing the Bush administration's free-trade policies, according to Mr. Davis's campaign.
 ''That really stuck in his craw,'' said Curtis Ellis, a Davis campaign spokesman. ''He was a member of the party his whole life. He gave countless dollars to Republicans. And they shut him down.''
 Mr. Davis, who is 73 and married, with 6 children and 13 grandchildren, has deep roots in this region. He grew up in western New York and attended Amherst Central High School. In 1955, he graduated from the University of Buffalo with a bachelor's degree in engineering.
 He went on to serve in the Marine Corps Reserves and in the Coast Guard Reserves. In 1964, after leaving the Coast Guard with the rank of lieutenant, he started a company out of his garage that would eventually make him a millionaire. The company, I Squared R Element Company, makes special heating elements for electric furnaces.
 Politically, Mr. Davis is hard to define, though he has a strong libertarian streak, supporting, for example, both abortion rights and gun rights.
 He says that he was a Republican for 50 years, first as a Goldwater Republican, then as a Reagan Republican. But he says he became disillusioned with the party because it did not share his disdain for free trade and the multinational corporations that reap its benefits. (He is also critical of Democrats in the free-trade camp.)
 In fact, until the Congressional page scandal erupted, he had made his anti-free-trade message a focus of the campaign. Again and again, he has argued that free-trade policies supported by Mr. Reynolds have been a major reason that the economically beleaguered region has lost manufacturing jobs to other countries.
 ''Reynolds cannot be trusted to defend your rights, your children's rights, your job, your farm or your industry,'' he said in a speech earlier this year that typifies the populist message he has carried throughout the campaign.
 But the Reynolds camp has hit back. In a televised ad that began running last month, Mr. Reynolds asserts that Mr. Davis's plan to increase tariffs on foreign goods to protect American companies ''is really a tax increase'' on working families. ''Millionaire Jack Davis: raising taxes, hurting families,'' the spot concludes in a line that irritates Mr. Davis.
 ''He's trying to make people jealous of my wealth,'' Mr. Davis said in a recent interview at his plant, where he employs 75 people. ''I got my money the old-fashioned way.''
 Mr. Davis is an amiable man with a slender build, a thick head of white hair and a penchant for letting his emotions flow. He got teary several times during the interview at his plant. And on Thursday, during an appearance at a union hall, he was surprisingly blunt in talking about Mr. Foley's behavior in the page scandal. ''If any of my sons had received that kind of letter from anybody, I'd have looked for a baseball bat and gone after the guy,'' he said.
 Democratic officials closely monitoring the race like to say that Mr. Davis would not have had a prayer of winning a Democratic primary if a traditional Democrat had challenged him for the party's nomination to run against Mr. Reynolds.
 But the fact that Mr. Davis does not have a pure Democratic pedigree may turn out to be one of his greatest assets running in New York's 26th Congressional District, a Republican bastion that runs between the suburbs of Buffalo and Rochester.
 ''All the ways that Tom Reynolds would normally try to defeat a Democratic rival are off limits with Jack Davis,'' said Blake Zeff, a spokesman for the New York State Democratic Party. ''He can't call Davis a liberal because it clearly isn't true. He can't tie him to national Democrats who might be unpopular in the district because people know Jack's a maverick who isn't taking his pointers from anyone but himself.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Davis, who is running a somewhat unorthodox Congressional campaign in western New York, at his business's plant in Akron. (Photo by Mike Groll for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); POLITICS (75%); ETHICS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%) Pages, Congressional; Election Issues; Computers and the Internet; Homosexuality; International Trade and World Market; Ethics; Children and Youth

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (57%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: THOMAS M REYNOLDS (89%) Raymond Hernandez; Jack Davis; Thomas M Reynolds; Mark Foley; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006



403 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: The Raceway Lacks Horses, But There Is Betting Aplenty

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Juli Steadman Charkes contributed reporting.

DATELINE: YONKERS, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
The racetrack east of the New York State Thruway lay empty, save for a few workmen perched on the grandstand, maneuvering a red crane. Storage cabinets crowded the paddock, which had a hole in the roof, exposing the blue sky above. The electronic board that displays the odds before each race was nowhere in sight.
 Meanwhile, the building that abuts the racetrack teemed for the fifth straight day with a sizeable, steady flow of visitors, who moved about the carpeted floor as if hypnotized by the whistles, bells and chimes of more than 1,800 slot machines. 
''I just hope I don't spend the rent money,'' Margaret-Ann Smith, 79, said as she poised to hit the ''Play'' button on one of the machines. ''I'd feel better if I'd seen anyone win big, but I guess that's the risk of gambling, right?''
 The Yonkers Raceway reopened for business on Wednesday with a stylish video-lottery casino, but -- to the distress of horse owners -- without a working track.
 ''It's disgraceful,'' said Joseph A. Faraldo, the president of the Standardbred Owners Association, which represents the owners of trotters and pacers that competed here, before dwindling crowds, until the track closed for renovations 16 months ago.
 Horse owners, jockeys and other track workers are entitled to part of the money drawn from bets, so closing the track here left them without a steady income, Mr. Faraldo said. Further, he said, ''it's a tremendous economic burden to have to pick up your office, pick up all your equipment and move on a daily basis to other facilities to race.''
 The association filed a complaint in New York State Supreme Court on Friday, arguing that the raceway's opening violates a 2001 law that authorized eight racing tracks to have video-lottery machines, provided that the racing and the gambling happened at the same time. 
 The raceway's general counsel, Timothy Rooney Jr., said he could not comment on the complaint because he had not seen it. He added, however, that the races would resume within a few weeks, or as soon as workers finish repairs, which have already lasted twice as long as planned. 
 ''We had to do a lot more work than we expected,'' Mr. Rooney said. ''All the parking lots had to be repaved, all the storm drains had to be replaced. Pretty much every corner of the racetrack was affected by the construction, but we're proud of what we've accomplished.''
 Mr. Faraldo said he was skeptical that the repairs would be completed within weeks, enabling the track to resume races quickly.
 The New York State Legislature had essentially two goals in 2001 when it decided to allow the video-lottery machines at racetracks: to help pay for increases in education aid and to revive the struggling racing industry. 
 In the Yonkers Raceway's heyday, more than 30,000 people would be there on Saturdays. But with the opening of the Meadowlands Racetrack in New Jersey, the number of visitors declined steadily. By the time the Yonkers Raceway closed for renovations in June 2005, crowds hardly surpassed the 300 mark, and most of the racehorses were aging and slow.
 ''The raceway was dead. It was kind of sad to come here,'' said David DeCintio, 56, who was visiting the casino for the first time on Sunday. ''I'm hoping things will get better because, I'll tell you, it's fun to come to the races, and it's even more fun now that you can play with these machines.''
 In 2004, Saratoga's harness racing track became the first in New York to add the video-lottery machines. Last year, visitors poured about $3 billion into machines at Saratoga and four other racetrack parlors upstate.
 Players took back about 90 percent of that in winnings, leaving about $155 million for schools after the racetracks and the state took their share, according to the State Lottery Division.
 Here, the machines are expected to yield $20 million a year for the schools and to create about 1,500 new jobs, said Yonkers Mayor Philip A. Amicone. 
 The video-lottery machines resemble electronic slot machines with push buttons. Instead of spitting out coins, the machines issue receipts that must be redeemed by a cashier. Bets range from one cent to $5, and prizes can reach beyond $100,000. The upper limit was not clear.
 ''I usually go to Foxwoods every six weeks or so, but this is very convenient,'' said Joan Smith, 77, who lives in nearby Irvington. ''Unfortunately, the temptation will be much greater now.''
 Empire City Gaming at Yonkers Raceway, as the facility is now known, is now the closest place to New York City for playing slots. The casino is open daily, from 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. It has 1,879 machines, but by late December, it is expected to have 5,500, spread over two floors, said Mr. Rooney, whose father owns the track and casino. (His father also owns the Pittsburgh Steelers football team.)
 The machines have names such as Mermaids, Big Money and Alien Attack. They display popsicles, strawberries and lollipops; numbers, letters and fruits; or simply piles of cash, big and small. 
 Some players could be found sitting cross-legged on the black swivel chairs that face each machine, backs erect, eyes glued to the screen. Others were slouched, as if surrendered to the experience.
 ''It's got that Las Vegas feel to it, minus the card tables,'' said Dolores Vitanza, 59, who lives in the Bedford Park neighborhood of the Bronx. She wandered amid the machines on Sunday morning, looking here and there for ''the right one,'' she said, ''whatever it might be.'' 
 Tom Celestino, 56, who used to attend the horse races on occasion, said enthusiastically, ''It's magnificent,'' as he entered the casino's doors.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Marilyn Keppler played the raceway's slot machines yesterday while a crew worked on the grandstand at the still-closed track. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (92%); GAMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HORSE RACING (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); LOTTERIES (67%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (66%); LAWYERS (64%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (62%); LITIGATION (62%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Gambling; Horse Racing; Casinos ; Lotteries; Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation; Yonkers Raceway; Gambling; Jockeys, Drivers and Trainers

ORGANIZATION: Standardbred Breeders and Owners Assn of New Jersey

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Yonkers (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006



404 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

China and South Korea Say Trade With North Will Go On
Questions over the effectiveness of the Security Council's punitive sanctions on North Korea for its claimed nuclear test grew, as both South Korea and China -- the North's two most important trading partners -- indicated that business and economic relations would largely be unaffected. A1

U.S. Deaths in Iraq Accelerate 

Two marines were killed by insurgents in Anbar Province, the American military command said, and three American soldiers died a day earlier in a bombing in southern Baghdad, bringing the total of American troop deaths in Iraq this month to at least 53, a rate of almost four a day. A9

7 Killed, 1 Taken in Afghanistan
Two Canadian soldiers in the NATO force were killed and three were wounded in an ambush in southern Afghanistan, an Afghan provincial council member was assassinated on his way to work, two police officers were killed near the border with Pakistan, two civilians were killed by a bomb, and an Italian photojournalist was reported to have been kidnapped by gunmen in southern Afghanistan. A6

Israeli Official May Be Charged
After a nearly two-month inquiry, the Israeli police released a statement recommending that President Moshe Katsav face charges of rape and sexual assault allegedly committed against several women in his office. Israel's attorney general, Menachem Mazuz, must now decide whether to file such charges. A8

Video Disputes China's Claim
A videotape that appears to show Chinese security forces shooting two Tibetan refugees in the Himalayas contradicts Beijing's claim that the refugees were shot when soldiers acted in self-defense. The New China News Agency said soldiers acted after refugees seeking to cross illegally into Nepal from China attacked border troops. A6

The Chinese police have charged a prominent human rights lawyer with inciting subversion, part of a crackdown on people who have sought to use China's nascent legal system to limit the power of the state. He was taken into custody in mid-August, but the police only recently made clear the nature of the charge, his lawyer said. A6

Thai AIDS Patients Shunned
Thailand's primary AIDS hospice, once a place of certain death, is now becoming overcrowded by people whose lives have been saved by medication but are rejected by their families or neighbors. Thailand has become a pioneer in distributing low-cost drugs, which are available for all those who need them for less than a dollar per treatment. A8

Pope Names 4 Saints
Pope Benedict XVI named four saints, among them two nuns who pioneered schools for women, including schools in the wilds of 19th-century frontier Indiana. The canonization ceremony was the second round of saints named by Benedict since he became pope in April 2005. A4

NATIONAL A12-17

Party Leaders Shift Focus To Winnable Campaigns
The choices being made by top Republican and Democratic leaders are setting the strategic framework of the final weeks of Congressional campaigning. They signal, by where they are spending television money and other resources, the Senate and House races where they believe they have the best chance of success. A1

Tony Snow, the White House press secretary and former television commentator and radio host, is using his star power and conservative bona fides in a controversial and unprecedented way: by raising money for Republican candidates. A16

Coast Guard to Arm Lake Boats
United States Coast Guard officials want to mount machine guns on their cutters and small boats around the Great Lakes as a counterterrorism measure, and plan to hold live fire exercises on the lakes. Some residents of the lakeside towns consider the idea to be potentially dangerous to ordinary boaters and a surprising place to be bracing for terrorists. A1

Earthquake Rocks Hawaii
An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.6 rippled through the Hawaii islands, knocking out electrical power and triggering a landslide that rained boulders and debris on a major highway on the largest island. A12

Power Supply Trails Demand
Companies are not building power plants and power lines fast enough to meet growing demand, according to a group recently assigned by the federal government to assure proper operation of the power grid. A14

Players Maintain Innocence
Three former Duke University students told the CBS News program ''60 Minutes'' that they were falsely accused of raping a woman hired to dance at a lacrosse team party. A14

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Scientists Aid Paralyzed Man
A team of neuroscientists reported that it had restored some movement and speech to a severely brain-damaged man by stimulating his brain with pulses of electric current. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Pirro and Cuomo Clash In First Televised Debate
The New York attorney general's race, one of the most combative and colorful political contests in recent memory, turned ever nastier as the two candidates, Jeanine F. Pirro and Andrew M. Cuomo, spent an hour attacking and undercutting each other in their first televised debate. A1

Final Concert for CBGB
Last night was the last concert at CBGB, the famously crumbling rock club that has been in continuous, loud operation since December 1973. It served as the casual headquarters and dank incubator for some of New York's most revered groups, as well as thousands more whose blares left less of a mark on history but whose graffiti and concert fliers might still remain on its walls. B1

Lawyer Faces Sentencing
Lynne F. Stewart, the lawyer who was convicted of aiding terrorists almost two years ago, will be sentenced in Federal District Court in Manhattan. The prosecution is seeking to condemn Ms. Stewart to 30 years in prison. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Mets Win Evens Series
The Mets rolled to a 12-5 victory against the Cardinals in Game 4 of the National League Championship Series at Busch Stadium, evening their best-of-seven series at two games apiece. D1

A New Power on L.P.G.A. Tour
In a final-round duel at the Samsung World Championship, one of the L.P.G.A. Tour's biggest tournaments, Lorena Ochoa shot a final-round, seven-under-par 65 to defeat Annika Sorenstam by two shots, signaling a potential power shift on a tour Sorenstam has ruled. D4

ARTS E1-10

Renaissance Panels Tour U.S.
Three newly restored panels from the bronze doors known as ''The Gates of Paradise,'' which were designed for the Piazza del Duomo in Florence during the Renaissance, are scheduled to tour North America for the first time. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Advertising on Social Sites
Big-name marketers and Internet companies are turning to social networking sites like MySpace, Facebook and YouTube to gain the attention of young people who increasingly avoid television commercials. C1

Lauder Profits from TV Sale
Ronald S. Lauder, the art collector and cosmetics heir, has sold half his stake in Central European Media Enterprises for $190 million, making a sizable gain on his investment. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Faith-based profits; an Alzheimer's treatment debunked; great candidates? that's debatable; Orhan Pamuk's Nobel Prize.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Bridge E6
Crossword E2
Metro Diary B2
Obituaries B8
TV Listings E9
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (88%); SEX OFFENSES (88%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); HOSPICE (76%); WOMEN (76%); ASSASSINATION (74%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (67%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); SELF DEFENSE (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); HIMALAYAS (56%) CHINA (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); THAILAND (90%); TIBET (79%); CANADA (79%); NEPAL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006



405 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: A Strong Earthquake Rattles Hawaii

BYLINE: By JANIS L. MAGIN and MARIA NEWMAN; Janis L. Magin reported from Honolulu, and Maria Newman from New York. Andrew C. Revkin, Joseph B. Treaster and David Carr contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
A strong earthquake struck the Hawaiian Islands early Sunday, shaking residents and tourists from their sleep, knocking out electrical power to several areas and setting off a landslide that rained boulders and other debris on the major highway of the largest island.
 The United States Geological Survey said that the main quake had a preliminary magnitude of 6.6 and that there had been at least a dozen aftershocks, including one that measured 5.8. Officials said the quake was the largest to hit Hawaii since one of magnitude 6.7 in 1983. 
Gov. Linda Lingle issued a disaster declaration Sunday afternoon and activated the National Guard, which happened to be conducting a statewide drill this weekend. The governor ordered her cabinet to convene at the headquarters of the Hawaii State Department of Civil Defense, which is in Diamond Head crater in Honolulu, the state capital, on the island of Oahu.
 There were no reports of deaths, but there were scores of unconfirmed reports of injuries. Kona Community Hospital had significant damage, and patients were moved to a hotel, officials said.
 The lack of electricity hampered communications, and officials could not say exactly how severe the damage was or what the extent of injuries was. The governor urged people to go to work on Monday as usual.
 The quake, centered just off the northwest shore of the Island of Hawaii, occurred at 7:07 a.m. local time, officials said. That side of the island contains Kohala, a popular resort area.
 The quake and its aftershocks set off fears of a tsunami. But the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center issued a report saying that ''no tsunami is expected'' because the quake was too deep and that its magnitude was below the tsunami trigger point of 6.9.
 Kawaihae Harbor, near the epicenter, was closed because of damage to buildings and a fuel line.
 Power was knocked out for hours in many areas, but by midafternoon, it had been restored to Hilo on the Island of Hawaii and to parts of Maui.
 Leonid Citer, 50, a photographer from Wayne, N.J., said in a telephone interview that he was on his way to photograph a wedding in Kona when the quake hit. Mr. Citer said he pulled to the side of the road when he felt the shock and debris began to rain down.
 ''There are rocks and fruit all over the road,'' he said. ''There are police and firemen at all the major intersections, and they were instructing people to go up as high as they can, elevation-wise, and they are advising them to stay away from the shore.''
 Emergency management officials also urged residents and others to stay put if they could, to keep roadways open for emergency vehicles.
 Beth Chapman, who co-stars with her husband, Duane Chapman, on the A&E cable reality series ''Dog the Bounty Hunter,'' said she was at their home in the Portlock section of Oahu when the quakes hit.
 ''There were two quakes, one at 7:08 this morning and the second one at 7:12,'' she said in a telephone interview. ''I know because the clock stopped when the second one came.
 ''I was outside for the second one, and you could hear this strange noise coming from the ocean,'' Ms. Chapman said. ''Then the ground shook, and there was a huge wave in our swimming pool.''
 Airports across the islands switched to emergency backup systems, which allowed inbound flights to land and a few outbound planes to depart. By midday, all flights out of the airports on Honolulu and Maui were canceled, as were flights to Hawaii from the United States mainland. At the airports still in operation, security officials checked luggage manually and agriculture agents used dogs to sniff packages and luggage because X-ray machines were without power.
 Officials asked cruise ships to keep guests on board, and ships scheduled to make landfall in Hawaii were asked to head to their next location.
 ''We're are dealing with a lot of scared people,'' Harry Kim, mayor of Hawaii County, said in a televised interview on KITV.
 Governor Lingle was on the Big Island, staying at the Mauna Lani Bay Hotel, when the building rattled.
 ''It shook very strongly and knocked the televisions off the bureaus in the hotel,'' she said in an interview on KSSK Radio, one of the few broadcast outlets that was not knocked off the air. ''TV's fell, books fell, mirrors fell off the wall.''
 Insurance experts said that early reports suggested relatively light damage to homes and businesses and that perhaps the heaviest costs could result from electric power failures in Honolulu and on other islands. 
 The insurers offered no immediate estimates on overall economic damage, but Robert P. Hartwig, chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, said payouts for damage from insurance companies for the earthquake probably would be ''very modest,'' perhaps under $25 million compared with $1.1 billion for one of the least costly hurricanes last year, Hurricane Dennis, which hit Florida in June 2005. 
 The most costly earthquake in the United States, the Northridge earthquake in Los Angeles in 1994, cost insurers up to $26 billion in today's dollars. It measured 6.7. By comparison, the insurers paid out $41 billion for damage from Hurricane Katrina. 
 Mr. Hartwig said that probably no more than 25 percent of homeowners in Hawaii and fewer than 50 percent of businesses had special policies that pay for earthquake damage. 
 ''Right now, it does not look like there is substantial structural damage or major fires,'' he said. ''And it looks like very modest costs to insurers. It could turn out to be higher if there is considerable damage to foundations and walls that is not immediately obvious.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dale Michael, an employee of Kona Natural Foods II in Kailua-Kona, surveyed the damage yesterday. (Photo by Leonid Citer)Map of Hawaii highlighting epicenter of 6.6 earthquake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); LANDSLIDES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); TSUNAMIS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (66%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (61%) Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (58%)

PERSON: Linda (Gov) Lingle; Janis L Magin; Maria Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); HILO, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006



406 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pursues Tactic of Financial Isolation

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
As debate swirls about whether new international sanctions against North Korea will be effective, the Bush administration appears to have made some headway in using new American legal tools to cut off both North Korea and Iran from the international financial system.
 The American campaign to use its own financial regulations to put pressure on North Korea and Iran has been a mix of implicit threats backed by explicit action, American officials and banking experts say. 
Over the last year, American officials have met with many private banks overseas to warn them of the risk of doing business with certain Iranian and North Korean trading companies and businesses that the United States says have been tied to terrorist groups or to the spread of nuclear materials. 
 One of the main unspoken messages of the visits, experts say, is that the United States government may eventually bar American banks from working with financial institutions doing business with groups tied to terrorism. 
 This campaign of pressure has been backed up by specific actions. The most notable was when the United States last month barred American banks from facilitating certain transactions, including the sale of oil, for a leading Iranian bank with reputed ties to terrorist groups. 
 As a result of the American campaign, banking officials and experts say that some foreign banks are cutting ties with North Korea and Iran. 
 But while achieving some unilateral success in economically punishing North Korea and Iran for their nuclear ambitions, some experts say the moves against Iran, at least, could damage American economic interests if that country switched to currencies other than the dollar for its large oil trades. 
 The United States had turned to unilateral action in part out of frustration that its efforts to mobilize international sanctions had run into trouble. That frustration might remain if the United Nations sanctions against North Korea, passed Saturday, prove not to be as effective as the United States hopes.
 Most experts acknowledge that a globally cooperative effort would be much more effective than the American unilateral efforts, but that the United States can inflict some pain with the creative use of the reach of its own laws and pressure.
 The ban on American transactions with the Iranian bank, Bank Saderat, means that it will no longer be able to obtain American dollars for its dealings with any other bank in the world. Bank Saderat is one of Iran's half-dozen largest banks.
 The technical term for the banned activity is a ''U-turn transaction.'' Such a transaction permits, for example, Iran to sell oil to a German customer, who in turn directs a European bank to deposit dollars obtained from an American bank into an Iranian bank account located in Europe. The phrase ''U-turn'' applies because the funds are transferred to a United States bank and instantly turned back as dollars to a European bank.
 Many American banking officials predict that, in coming months, the United States will ban American bank involvement in transactions involving the other leading banks in Iran. That is because there is a widespread assumption among bankers that all of Iran's state-owned banks engage in the same activities as Bank Saderat. The likely result is that Iran will have difficulty selling its oil for dollars, the international medium of exchange for all oil sales.
 ''This is a pretty dramatic uptick of pressure from the United States,'' said Judith A. Lee, a law partner specializing in economic sanctions at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in Washington. ''It is going to create significant difficulties for European banks and European countries.''
 American officials decline to say whether the move against Bank Saderat would apply to other Iranian banks. 
 Stuart Levey, under secretary of the Treasury for terrorism and financial intelligence, said recently that in the last two years the United States had ''learned a number of lessons about how best to use financial tools to apply financial pressure'' on countries like Iran and North Korea.
 In the last year, Mr. Levey has traveled to several countries in Europe to exert pressure on Iran and to Singapore, China, Macao, Hong Kong, Vietnam and South Korea to press banks to break their ties with North Korea.
 The message was reinforced a year ago when the United States barred financial transactions with a bank in Macao, Banco Delta Asia, which officials said was involved in North Korean nuclear dealings, money laundering and counterfeiting.
 Last month, citing news media reports, Mr. Levey said that at least two dozen financial institutions overseas had curtailed or suspended business with North Korea. 
 China, for instance, froze the accounts of North Korea in a Macao branch of the Bank of China and also cracked down on the circulation of counterfeit American dollars in China near the North Korean border.
 The administration hopes that could set a pattern for the future, American officials said. ''We have no reason to believe that China will not continue to protect their financial system from abuse,'' a Treasury official said Sunday.
 As for Iran, several European banks, including Credit Suisse and UBS in Switzerland, HSBC in Britain and ABN Amro in the Netherlands, have announced curbs on dealings with Iranian banks and businesses. 
 ''We are seeing a whole series of banks not doing business with Iran, restricting the flow of funds into Iran significantly,'' said Edward Morse, chief energy economist at Lehman Brothers.
 Last month, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. suggested at an international meeting in Singapore that banks around the world should stop doing business with more than 30 Iranian companies and government enterprises that American intelligence had linked to various illicit activities.
 Evidence that American moves against Iran might be having an effect came at the same meeting, when Ebrahim Sheibany, the Iranian central bank governor, told a local paper at an international financial meeting that Iran would have ''no choice'' but to shift its sale of oil away from the dollar and to the euro or Asian currencies.
 Whether that shift away from dollars could have the unintended effect of hurting the United States is a matter of debate. Some experts say there is a danger that if Iran does shift currencies, it could weaken the standing of the dollar as a reserve currency, forcing the United States to raise interest rates to attract dollar purchasers.
 ''This is a step where the end result could clearly weaken the dollar,'' said John G. Heimann, an investment banker and former comptroller of the currency in the Carter administration. ''What has to be considered is whether or not we are shooting ourselves in the foot.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Terrorism

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (51%) North Korea; Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006



407 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: QUESTIONS GROW OVER U.N. CURBS ON NORTH KOREA

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI; Steven R. Weisman and David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington, and Joseph Kahn from Beijing.

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Questions over the effectiveness of the Security Council's punitive sanctions on North Korea for its claimed nuclear test grew Sunday, as both South Korea and China -- the North's two most important trading partners -- indicated that business and economic relations would be largely unaffected.
 A day after the Council unanimously passed the resolution, following nearly a week of intensive diplomatic negotiations, the South Korean government said it would still pursue economic projects with North Korea, including an industrial zone and tourist resort in the North. Those projects are not explicitly covered by the Security Council resolution, but they are an important source of hard currency for the North.
China, which shares a 870-mile porous border with North Korea and is perhaps its most critical economic gateway to the outside world, said Saturday that it had no intention of stopping and inspecting cross-border shipments, as called for, but not specifically required, in the resolution. The Chinese government said nothing on Sunday about how it intended to carry out the sanctions, and American officials said they would be focused on whether the normal trade flow across the border was slowed. 
 The relative silence on Sunday about how the resolution would be enforced, coupled with the vagaries of the resolution itself, raised concerns that the Security Council action would not have much of an impact for the foreseeable future. 
 ''We're in the situation where everyone is saying what they won't do, but no one has yet said what exactly they will do,'' said Jonathan D. Pollack, a North Korea expert at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I. ''The question for the next few days is what this all means, because there is a lack of specificity in the resolution.''
 North Korea, which announced last Monday that it had successfully detonated a nuclear device, has denounced the resolution, accused the Security Council of gangsterism and warned that any American pressure on the North Korean government would be regarded as an act of war. But North Korea has not specified what it may do next in response.
 In Washington, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said that China was part of ''a Security Council resolution that demands very clear cooperation of member states to make certain that dangerous goods are not getting in and out of North Korea,'' and added that she expected cooperation. 
 But in interviews on two Sunday television programs she acknowledged that exactly how China would cooperate remained unclear, and she hinted that the United States would not rush to interdict North Korean ships at sea, at least initially. Instead, she expects most searches to take place at ports, she said. 
 ''This is a powerful tool, but it's also a tool that needs to be used carefully,'' she said, adding, ''I don't think I want to speculate about how it's going to be used.'' Responding to statements by the Chinese ambassador at the United Nations that China would not interdict shipments at its border with North Korea, Ms. Rice said on ''Fox News Sunday'' that China's support of the resolution was effectively a pledge of ''cooperation in stopping the proliferation trade with North Korea.''
 She said she was ''quite certain'' that China would act in accordance with this objective, but she declined to offer details. The resolution approved Saturday condemning North Korea and calling for sanctions against it ''came about more rapidly, perhaps, than any in recent memory of this magnitude,'' Ms. Rice said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''So there will be some matters to be worked out.''
 In fact, under a loose coalition with other countries around the world known as the Proliferation Security Initiative, a few countries have already boarded ships to and from North Korea in ports throughout Asia. These countries have carried out naval exercises to practice for such interdictions. But their powers to intercept ships in international waters -- except when they have permission of the owners, the captain or the country whose flag the ship is flying -- have been murky, and remain so under the new Security Council resolution.
 The resolution, drafted by the United States, bans trade with North Korea in materials linked with unconventional weapons, and authorizes countries to inspect cargo going into and out of the North. This last measure was diluted, however, by China's insistence that the resolution state that countries be requested, not required, to do so.
 In Japan, however, enthusiasm for the new resolution was greater. Hawkish politicians close to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said the Japanese were prepared to assist the American military in inspecting North Korean ships despite Japan's pacifist Constitution, and called for a debate on whether Japan should possess nuclear arms. Mr. Abe himself has said he has no intention of changing the government's longtime ban on the weapons.
 Like China, South Korea fears that inspecting North Korean ships by force could lead to a military confrontation. As a result, despite pressure from Washington, Seoul has not joined the three-year-old American-led Proliferation Security Initiative, concerned that intercepting North Korean weapons could begin such an encounter.
 ''We judged that the contents of the resolution of the U.N. Security Council do not directly affect the economic cooperation programs between the two Koreas, including Kaesong and Kumgang Mountain,'' Choo Kyu-ho, the spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, said Sunday, referring to an industrial park and a tourist resort. ''We will go ahead with the economic cooperation programs in harmony with the resolution.'' Mr. Choo declined to say whether South Korea planned to proceed with long-held plans to expand the Kaesong industrial zone.
 Such comments are bound to worry the Bush administration, however, because President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea told President Bush in Washington last month that a North Korean nuclear test would drastically change the South's policy, away from engagement and toward punishment.
 Some Korea experts said that with the reluctance of China and South Korea to crack down on North Korea, as well as Russia's initial unwillingness to take a hard line against the North, it was unclear how effective the sanctions would be.
 ''Limited sanctions and cooperation will continue, so we're basically in the same boat as before,'' said David C. Kang, a Korea expert at Dartmouth College who is visiting Seoul. ''It's untenable globally to oppose sanctions right now. So South Korea will go along with them for a while, put some projects on hold, but resume them in a year or sooner.''
 Mr. Kang added: ''The sanctions are at best kabuki theater. They're not going to have much effect on North Korea's behavior.''
 China is opposed to restricting the flow of nonmilitary goods to North Korea, which remains one of the most impoverished and isolated countries and depends on that commerce for its economic survival. Chinese border cities like Dandong and Yanji are significant trading posts where North Korean trucks line up daily, stocking up on Chinese food and consumer goods.
 China is also North Korea's biggest supplier of oil, most of it shipped by rail. While the vehicles have to pass customs inspections on both sides, there is no indication that the Chinese strictly control what is sold to North Korea.
 As North Korea's largest trading partner, China accounts for nearly 39 percent of its imports andexports, followed by South Korea, which has a 26 percent share, according to the South Korean government.
 Thailand, Russia, and Japan are the North's other significant trading partners.
 Most of the China-North Korea border is demarcated by the Yalu River. While troops patrol the border on both sides, it is widely considered porous, especially in the winter months when the Yalu freezes and people on both sides can cross without fear of detection.
 China's opposition to restricting the flow of nonmilitary goods to North Korea, and what appears to be its reluctance to inspect cargo shipments in or out of the country for materials banned by the United Nations sanctions, could sharply limit their effectiveness.
 The utility of seaborne inspections of North Korea cargo ships by the United States or Japan could be undermined if the North Korean government determines that it can import or export goods covered by the sanctions through Chinese ports.
 Even so, Beijing agreed to punitive sanctions on North Korea for the first time, and the details of their enforcement may take longer to negotiate. Whether they will be made public remains unclear. Government officials in China typically do not provide detailed information about policies relating to North Korea or other delicate matters.
 The resolution came as somewhat of a relief in South Korea, which is caught between its fear of destabilizing the North and its need to show solidarity with its American ally.
 The South Korean government's engagement policy toward the North has been fiercely attacked by the political opposition in the last week. But experts said that the government's decision to press ahead with cross-border economic projects indicated that the South would stick to its engagement policy.
 ''The feeling is that the engagement policy itself was not to blame for the nuclear test,'' said Kim Sung-han, a senior analyst at the government-financed Institute for Foreign Affairs and National Security in Seoul. ''The issue is how to implement it. Should there be more elements of dialogue or reciprocity? There is the feeling that implementation was not balanced enough. From now on, the government will be more realistic in implementing the engagement policy instead of giving it up altogether.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A fence along the North Korean border near Dandong, China, one of the principal cities where Chinese goods are distributed to North Korea. (Photo by Ng Han Guan/Associated Press)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (53%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006



408 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Early Returns Point to a Presidential Runoff in Ecuador

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Abraham Mahshie contributed reporting.

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Ecuador's voters appeared to be split Sunday between Alvaro Noboa, a banana magnate who favors close ties to the United States, and Rafael Correa, a leftist who is an admirer of Venezuela's Hugo Chavez and who, like Mr. Chavez, is known for his anti-American rhetoric.
 Based on early election returns, the two men are likely to face a runoff on Nov. 26. 
 As of 11:45 p.m. local time, with 61 percent of the votes counted, Mr. Noboa was leading with 26.7 percent of the vote to 22.4 percent for Mr. Correa.
 To avoid a runoff, one of the candidates needs to win a majority or 40 percent of the vote plus a 10 percentage-point lead over the nearest opponent. There were 13 candidates in the race.
 Mr. Noboa's strong showing came as something of a surprise. In the final days of the campaign, Mr. Noboa, 55, a Swiss-educated billionaire scion of an elite family in Guayaquil, said he would limit political ties to Venezuela and fiercely criticized Mr. Correa's positions. He has also said he is strongly in favor of negotiating a trade agreement with the United States.
 Mr. Correa angrily reacted on Sunday to the attacks from Mr. Noboa and said his campaign might have suffered from fraud in the electronic systems used to count votes.
 ''The irresponsible Noboa says I want to turn this country into a Cuba,'' he said. ''This is not the case.'' 
 Mr. Noboa, who ran an unusual campaign combining right-wing ideology and populist promises, has made it to the second round of presidential elections twice before, losing each time. In this campaign, he appeared before audiences grasping a Bible and promising to build cheap housing, attract foreign investment and distribute computers.
 In recent weeks, Mr. Correa, 43, had surged in the polls after railing against Ecuador's political establishment and criticizing American influence in the country.
 Mr. Correa said he opposed negotiating a free trade treaty with the United States, jolted Wall Street banks by saying he would seek to renegotiate Ecuador's foreign debt and said he would end an arrangement allowing the United States military to use an air base in Manta, on the Pacific Coast, for drug surveillance flights.
 ''We can negotiate with the U.S. about a base in Manta, and if they let us put a military base in Miami, if there is no problem, we'll accept,'' Mr. Correa recently told reporters.
 Mr. Correa cast himself as an anti-establishment candidate of a different stripe from other leftist populists in the region, who have largely had military or trade union backgrounds. An obscure university professor until briefly serving as economy minister last year, he dresses in well-tailored suits and speaks fluent English and French as well as some Quechua.
 He obtained postgraduate degrees in economics from the University of Illinois and Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium.
 But despite that background, Mr. Correa, like many of his countrymen, dislikes many of the reforms recommended a decade ago by international lending institutions, including those strongly influenced by the United States. Mr. Correa has taken inspiration from the nationalist policies of Mr. Chavez, supporting greater government control over Ecuador's oil industry and acknowledging warm ties to him.
 Those types of nontraditional positions played well with some voters.
 ''He's going to end the Congress, which is a sewer,'' Cristina Navas, 37, said of Mr. Correa after voting today.
 But others expressed fears. ''Venezuela is a petroleum country; Ecuador is a country with petroleum,'' said Vicente Bustamante, 46, a lawyer. ''Venezuela can subsist on its own outside any economic bloc; we are part of the international community.''
 Mr. Correa met with Mr. Chavez in Venezuela in August, spending the night at the home of Mr. Chavez's parents in Barinas, the provincial cattle-raising region where Mr. Chavez was raised. Still, Mr. Correa denied receiving Venezuelan financing and emphasized a desire to also forge close ties with other leaders in the region.
 While his background differs from that of Mr. Chavez, a former army officer, and President Evo Morales of Bolivia, a supporter of energy nationalization who is Mr. Chavez's closest ally in the Andes, Mr. Correa embraced their explicit criticism of the United States. At one point he described President Bush as a ''tremendously dimwitted president who has done great damage to his country and to the world.''
 The rising distaste here for Washington belies economic and social ties to the United States that may be closer than ever. Ecuador uses the United States dollar as its currency, a six-year-old stabilization effort even Mr. Correa said needed to remain in place. More than 1 million Ecuadoreans are estimated to have immigrated to the United States since the 1990's, forming large communities in such states as New York, Florida and Illinois. The money they send home has become a vital source of income here. The United States, meanwhile, relies on Ecuador as its third-largest supplier of oil in South America after Venezuela and Brazil.
 The winner of a runoff next month would face a perennial challenge: completing his term. Ecuador, which allows its Congress to remove presidents with ease, has had 7 presidents in the last 10 years.
 Much of the next government's fortunes will depend on the price of oil, which is subject to the vagaries of the global energy market. Each $1 decline in oil prices translates into a $200 million decline in national income in Ecuador and a fall of 0.5 percent of gross domestic product, according to Barclays Capital.
 Mr. Correa also showed signs of fatigue in recent days, potentially providing an opening for Mr. Noboa to adroitly appeal to voters in the likely runoff.
 Adrian Bonilla, a noted analyst and director of the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences here, where Mr. Correa once gave classes, said Mr. Correa was not as radical as some say. That may be why some prominent financiers and businessmen have backed him.
 ''Correa is clearly against the status quo, but that doesn't make him a Marxist or a messianic leader like Chavez,'' said Mr. Bonilla. ''He's not about to turn Ecuador into a client state of Venezuela.''
 Mr. Chavez, for his part, has remained uncharacteristically restrained in commenting on the race, perhaps out of concern that he might weaken Mr. Correa's chances. Opponents of leftist populist presidential candidates in both Peru and Mexico won elections this year after attacking their rivals' perceived ties to Mr. Chavez.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of Alvaro Noboa, who was leading in Ecuador's presidential race last night, cheered for him yesterday in his hometown, Guayaquil. (Photo by Martin Mejia/Associated Press )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); MILITARY BASES (84%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); INWARD INVESTMENT (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) United States International Relations; Elections; Voting Machines; Frauds and Swindling

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%) Simon Romero; Alvaro Noboa; Rafael Correa; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ECUADOR (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%) Ecuador; Venezuela; Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006



409 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON TONIGHT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 443 words

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:

9 P.M. (VH1) VH1 HIP-HOP HONORS -- This annual ceremony gives props to some of the genre's most renowned wordsmiths and those whose frank talk helped pave the way. Honorees include Ice Cube, Wu-Tang Clan, Afrika Bambaataa, Russell Simmons, MC Lyte, Rakim, Beastie Boys and Eazy E, and Da Brat, Diddy, Erykah Badu, Fat Joe, George Clinton, Lil Jon, Lil' Kim, Mike Epps, OutKast, Xzibit and Young Jeezy are among those expected to show. The granddaddy of them all, Ice-T (above), is host. 


8 P.M. (NBC) FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS -- The Panthers lose and life in Dillon, Tex., gets ugly.

8 P.M. (History) VIOLENT EARTH: ASTEROIDS -- They've been blamed for scarring Earth's surface and killing off its dinosaurs, and the threat of them isn't going away any time soon. This special looks at encounters of the worst kind between our planet and these rocks from space and how this collision course could affect our future.

9 P.M. (13) THE LOST YEAR IN IRAQ -- After the fall of Saddam Hussein, Ambassador L. Paul Bremer III led a group of Americans to Baghdad with the mission of establishing democracy. A year later, Mr. Bremer was forced to sneak out of the country, abandoning his idealism and leaving lawlessness, insurgency, economic collapse, death and destruction in his wake. This ''Frontline'' documentary looks at what happened and how the United States can exit the war gracefully.

10 P.M. (FX) NIP/TUCK -- Dawn Budge (Rosie O'Donnell), the Powerball winner who bought her way into Christian's (Julian McMahon) bed, returns for a little stitch witchery after an earring jacking, and Burt Landau (Larry Hagman, above left, with Mr. McMahon), the practice's new owner, demands facial surgery after he has a stroke from taking erectile-dysfunction pills.

10 P.M. (History) APOLLO 13: TRIUMPH ON THE DARK SIDE OF THE MOON -- In this season premiere of ''Man, Moment, Machine,'' Commander James Lovell talks about his 1970 space journey to hell and back.

10 P.M. (MTV) TRUE LIFE -- Three Staten Island girls discuss their plans to take the first ferry out of town, the better to achieve their dreams.

10:30 P.M. (Food Network) THE HUNGRY DETECTIVE -- Chris Cognac, a Los Angeles police detective cum food critic, and the host of this new series, teaches foodies the forensic science of uncovering culinary gems in cities across America.

11 P.M. (VH1) ICET'S RAP SCHOOL -- The fourth R? Rapping, of course. This new reality series follows a group of seventh and eighth graders at York Prep on the Upper West Side as they learn rhyming, timing, scratching and breakdancing from Ice-T (above, with some of the students) -- and in the process find their voices. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by VH1)
(Photo by Prashant Gupta/FX)
 (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); FORENSICS (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) EARTH (92%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



410 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Reality Intrudes on ABC's Big Reality Hit

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
''Dancing With the Stars,'' the ABC hit that is the highest-rated reality show on television this fall, will go on without one of the six final couples this week. Sara Evans, a country music star, has dropped out after filing for divorce from her husband of 13 years.
 Ms. Evans, named female vocalist of the year by the Academy of Country Music earlier this year, filed for divorce in state court in Tennessee on Thursday from her husband, Craig L. Schelske, a Republican fund-raiser. 
Ms. Evans, 35, informed the show's producers and ABC executives last week that she would drop out of the competition, Hope Hartman, an ABC spokeswoman, said Monday. Ms. Hartman said the network would not otherwise comment on the withdrawal's effect on the show until after this week's installments, which will be broadcast Tuesday and Wednesday.
 The Tennessean newspaper quoted Ms. Evans's lawyer, John Hollins Jr., on Saturday as saying that the singer would tape an interview with ABC about her withdrawal, to be broadcast during Tuesday's show. Mr. Hollins did not respond to a telephone message yesterday.
 In unusually explicit court papers, Ms. Evans accused her husband of adultery with the couple's former nanny, excessive drinking, soliciting sex via an Internet site and maintaining a library of pornography that included pictures of him having sex with other women.
 Mr. Schelske, 43, could not be reached for comment. In a statement issued through a spokesman, he said: ''I adamantly deny the allegations that are being made. As distressing as it is to have to communicate about this matter publicly, Sara has unfortunately become a dramatically different person over the last year, and it is something we have struggled to deal with. Sadly, it appears we have failed.''
 According to court filings from Williamson County, Tenn., a state judge on Thursday approved a temporary restraining order and custody order based on the allegations in Ms. Evans's divorce request. 
 The couple and their three children, who live near Nashville, had been residing in Beverly Hills, Calif., while Ms. Evans was participating in ''Dancing With the Stars,'' a ballroom-dance competition that is broadcast live Tuesday nights at 8 Eastern time on ABC. A results show, which combines viewer voting with the recommendations of a panel of professional dance judges, is shown live on Wednesdays, following the two-night format popularized by ''American Idol,'' last year's top-rated television show.
 According to Nielsen Media Research, ''Dancing With the Stars'' was the fourth-highest-rated show and the top-rated reality show in the first three weeks of the fall television season, drawing an average of 18.2 million viewers each week and trailing only ''Grey's Anatomy,'' ''CSI'' and ''Desperate Housewives.'' The results show ranked seventh over all, with 16.1 million viewers. 
 In the 2005-6 television season, ''Dancing With the Stars'' ranked seventh over all, drawing an average of 18.5 million viewers each week. ''American Idol'' drew an average of 31 million viewers each week.
 Although she was only one of the 11 celebrity contestants who began the season, each paired with a professional ballroom dancer for training and competition, Ms. Evans attracted more than the usual amount of attention. Tom DeLay, the former United States Congressman and Republican leader from Texas, recently sent out a mass e-mail message asking supporters to watch the show and vote for Ms. Evans, whom he called ''a good friend of mine, country music singer and G.O.P. supporter.'' 
 Saying that Ms. Evans ''represents good American values in the media'' and noting that one of her opponents in the competition was ''ultra-liberal talk show host Jerry Springer,'' Mr. DeLay added: ''We need to send a message to Hollywood and the media that smut has no place on television by supporting good people like Sara Evans.''
 Ms. Evans's divorce filing says Mr. Schelske is unemployed, but he is listed online as the chairman of CraigPAC, a political action committee dedicated to electing Republicans in state and national races, whose name stands for Conservative Reform Agenda in Government. The committee's Web site also says that Mr. Schelske is president of Gingerdog Inc., which promotes Ms. Evans's singing career. 
 Mr. Schelske, who ran unsuccessfully in 2002 for the Republican nomination for the Fifth Congressional District in Oregon, is also listed online as the executive director of American Destiny, a nonprofit organization that promotes the role of religion in the founding of the United States.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sara Evans and her dance partner, Tony Dovolani, on ''Dancing With the Stars.'' (Photo by Adam Larkey/ABC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DANCE (89%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (78%); MUSIC (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); JUDGES (76%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); FUNDRAISING (70%) Television

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (61%)

PERSON: Edward Wyatt; Sara Evans

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



411 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Stealth Boat for Hire. Good Lift. Low Drag. Excellent Mileage.

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
The great white sharks hanging out around the Farallon Islands 25 miles west of the Golden Gate have been greeted by an unusual visitor in recent days: the Derek M. Baylis, a 65-foot vessel designed not just for research but to demonstrate how quieter and more fuel-efficient boats can be built.
 The Baylis is a hybrid that can operate under sail, diesel or a combination of the two, using a fraction of the fuel required for a comparable-size boat of conventional design. The craft is the creation of Tom Wylie, a local yacht designer, and Dave Wahle, his partner in sailboat manufacturing, who began work four years ago assuming that marine researchers would welcome such an environmentally friendly vessel.
 That was certainly the case with Barbara A. Block, a Stanford professor of marine sciences. She chartered the Baylis this month for a research project that was placing remote telemetry tags on the great whites. The devices record navigational information, body temperature, depth and ambient temperature data. 
 ''We appreciate the design and efficiency of the Baylis and the capacity to get out to the Farallones by sail,'' Dr. Block said. ''Our project is designed to impact the refuge and the sanctuary waters around the Farallones as little as possible, and there is no better way than to do this by sail.'' 
 Like the Toyota Prius, which derives its fuel savings in part from its hybrid gas and electric power system and from an aerodynamic shape and narrow, high-pressure tires, the Baylis gains its efficiency from a smooth hull shape as well as the addition of sail. 
 ''This is a very straightforward invention where my friends and I have repositioned off-the-shelf items so that even without the sail, we get a 20-to-1 improvement in fuel economy,'' Mr. Wylie said. ''I'm really trying to use finesse, not force, working with Mother Nature, not against her, and the outcome is actually free boat speed.''
 In yacht-racing circles, Mr. Wylie is known for designing slippery hull shapes and innovative rigs, both of which are featured on the Baylis. Speed in a sailboat is a product of lift versus drag, and naval architects seek to increase the former while minimizing the latter, within the often conflicting requirements of the boat's intended use. 
 The Baylis is a modern variation of the classic catboats -- the simple single-sailed boats used a century or more ago for fishing and transportation in the coastal waters around New England, New York and New Jersey.
 Technically, the Baylis is a cat-ketch, as it has two masts, with the larger main mast forward of the smaller mizzen. There is a single sail on each mast with wishbone booms -- much like the systems used in windsurfing -- which makes the rig virtually self-tending. The carbon fiber masts are also self-supporting, with no steel shrouds or stays, to reduce drag and weight aloft.
 Sailboats are propelled by the lift created when wind passes over the curved surface of their sails, but they would simply scuttle sideways were it not for the counteracting lift generated by their two underwater foils, the keel and the rudder. Like a modern racing yacht, the Baylis has foil shapes as efficient as that of any airplane wing.
 Optimizing the hull shape for minimum drag is where things become complicated, and where Mr. Wylie resorts to technical terms like prismatic coefficient and deadrise. Basically, he tries to reduce volume in the bow and stern, concentrating mass in the middle of the boat.
 He also designs hulls with an uncommonly deeper and rounder shape below the waterline. Curved shapes are inherently stiffer than straight ones, so the hulls can be built lighter for a given strength. A curved shape also has less wet surface than a flat one, and boats with a curved underbody tend to have more gentle motion than those with a steeper, flatter shape. 
 ''I try to put a slight curve even in the flattest line, and I get a lot of benefits from that,'' Mr. Wylie said. ''It's very difficult, because when you start doing three-dimensional curves, improving one parameter inevitably pushes another out of shape.'' 
 When not chartered by marine biologists, the Baylis makes excursions twice daily for paying customers under the Monterey Bay Aquarium Science Under Sail program. A glance behind the boat when it is under sail shows the benefit of a smooth, easily-driven hull, which simply uses less power to glide through the waves: sailing at 10 knots in 10 knots of breeze, the Baylis barely leaves a wake. 
 Even under diesel power, the Baylis uses about one-twentieth as much fuel as the aquarium's other research vessel, the Zephyr, or two gallons an hour at a cruising speed of 10 knots, Mr. Wylie said. The Baylis's svelte shape means it can be driven by a single 100-horsepower diesel that consumes far less fuel than the Zephyr's two 1,000-horsepower motors.
 Seeing the Baylis berthed at Fisherman's Wharf gave Hedley Prince, the harbormaster, an idea. He had seen firsthand the decline of the local fishing fleet due to restricted catches, foreign competition and surging fuel prices. Mr. Prince could do little about Russian trawlers or the salmon population, but the Baylis showed a potential solution to the high cost of fuel: a hybrid fishing boat. 
 At Mr. Prince's request, Mr. Wylie drew the 38-foot Catfisher, essentially a shorter, single-masted version of the Baylis. The Catfisher would be powered by a 50-horsepower diesel, or at somewhat greater initial cost, by a diesel and electric generator augmented by solar panels.
 ''I told Tom I'd had this idea of trying to do for fishing boats what the Toyota Prius did for the automobile -- just use every trick in the book to try to make it more efficient,'' Mr. Prince said. He noted that while the wholesale price for salmon has barely changed in 20 years, marine diesel has gone to more than $3 a gallon from 45 cents over the same period of time, seriously eroding fishermen's profits.
 Mr. Wylie estimated the price of a Catfisher at $400,000, which would be similar to a new steel fishing boat of the same length. But the depressed state of the fishing industry means that relatively few new boats of any kind are being built, and used boat prices are relative bargains. With those facts working against it, the Catfisher remains a design in search of a customer.
 Indeed, the Baylis might have remained a bare hull if not for Randy Repass, founder and chairman of West Marine, a chain of boating supply stores, who stepped forward with the more than $1 million needed to complete the Baylis. Mr. Repass also supports Sealife Conservation, the nonprofit organization that operates the Baylis, and commissioned a sister ship, the Convergence, which he and his family are currently sailing in the South Pacific. 
 Some industry experts question whether there is a market for a boat as unusual as the Catfisher, even with the fuel savings it promises.
 ''Fishermen tend not to be leading edge,'' said Michael Crowley, boats and gear editor for the magazine National Fisherman. ''They take what they know works because they can't afford to pay for mistakes.'' 
 The simplest way to improve fuel economy is to replace aging motors with new diesels, which also weigh less and produce fewer emissions. (The California Technology, Trade and Commerce Agency, which promotes job growth and economic development, is offering low-interest loans of $10,000 to $25,000 for improving the efficiency of commercial fishing boats.)
 Another pragmatic step is to alter a boat's hull shape. One of the most common ways is by adding a bulb to the bow, which eases the boat's motion in choppy seas and also improves fuel economy by reducing the bow wake relative to the blunt shapes of most commercial boats.
 ''We've seen efficiency gains of 5 to 15 percent,'' said Eric Blumhagen, a naval architect with Jensen Maritime Consultants in Seattle. ''Relative to the capital cost, it pays off fairly quickly, especially with diesel at $3 a gallon.''
 Adding solar power to a fishing boat is problematic because the panels take up space that would otherwise go to gear. That is not a problem, however, for the Solar Sailor, a 100-passenger charter vessel and ferry in Sydney, Australia, that is topped with eight solar ''wings.'' The wings move automatically, tracking the sun for optimal solar collection and the wind for optimal sail power. In extreme wind situations, the wings fold down. 
 The Solar Sailor has been operating in Sydney Harbor for five years, and its manufacturer recently won a bid to build a similar vessel for the run to Alcatraz Island in San Francisco Bay.
 ''For Alcatraz, our boat will cost $1.5 million more than a conventional ferry, and the payback period will be four years,'' said Robert Dane, founder and chief executive of Solar Sailor Holdings. 
 ''Over 15 years, you'll be $5 million ahead, assuming oil stays at $3 gallon, and it's already gone to $3.20,'' Mr. Dane said. ''When you have short ferry runs with frequent stopping, the hybrid really comes into its own and the fuel savings is just unbelievable.''


COMPOSITE HULL
A lightweight balsa wood core, sandwiched between sheets of fiberglass. Less than half the weight of a conventional hull, it also provides rigidity. The streamlined shape allows for a smaller engine.

INTO THE WIND
The Baylis is designed much like racing sail boats in that it can sail as close as 37 degrees into the wind. A typical sailboat sails 40-45 degrees into the wind.

Diagram of the Baylis highlights the following:
Direction of motion
LIFT
MAIN SAIL
REAR SAIL
Wind entering
Wind exiting

(Frank O'Connell/The New York Times)

(Source by Tom Wylie, Wyliecat L.L.C.)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Prius of Boating''Like a hybrid car, the Derek M. Baylis, a 65-foot research and education vessel, can use two means of propulsion. Equipped with sails and a diesel engine, it uses lightweight construction, efficient airfoil shapes and a streamlined hull.COMBINING A SAILBOAT AND A LOBSTER BOATThe Baylis boat borrows the hull shape and sails of a sailboat, combining them with the workdeck, pilot house and metal A-frame of a lobster boat. The A-frame is used for lifting objects from the water.Diagrams highlight the following:DEREK M. BAYLISTYPICAL SAIL BOATLOBSTER BOAT (A-FRAME, WORKDECK, PILOT HOUSE)Airfoil shapesKeel and rudderSailsLightweight constructionCARBON FIBER MASTSStrong and lightweight, they automatically bend with the wind, changing the shape of the sails, making them more efficient.BATTENSThin epoxy glass ribs, they help the airfoil hold its shape.RUDDERAn airfoil Crosssection provides better control and less drag.KEELUsed to provide stability and store fuel. Its airfoil shape creates less drag, provides lift when sailing into the wind and helps prevent sideways motion. At its end is a 9,400-pound torpedo-shaped lead weight that helps counter the tipping force of the wind.DIESEL ENGINEThe 100-horsepower engine can push the boat to12 knots. It is used to maneuver in and out of docks and when the wind is below 5 knots.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE BIOLOGY (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); BOAT BUILDING (90%); SAILING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FISHES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); WATER SPORTS (72%); BIOLOGY (72%); BOAT RACING (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (69%); EXTREME SPORTS (60%); COASTAL AREAS (50%) Boats and Boating; Baylis, Derek M (Boat); Research; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Noise; Diesel Power

PERSON: Lawrence M Fisher; Tom Wylie; Dave Wahle

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); NORTHEAST USA (65%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



412 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Will Sanctions Stop North Korea?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Security Council Supports Sanctions on North Korea'' (front page, Oct. 15) related the evident pleasure of our national security officials that the administration's pressure against a bank in Macao, Banco Delta, ''was the first thing we ever did that got their attention,'' referring to a program to force banks to stop dealings with North Korea.
 Unfortunately, the attention took the form of North Korea's withdrawal from the six-party negotiations, which had achieved progress toward getting its agreement to suspend nuclear weapons activities. 
It was easily predictable that the North Korean regime, smarting from administration characterizations like ''axis of evil,'' would react strongly to being publicly accused in the indictment against the bank of having engaged in counterfeiting and other nefarious activities. 
 Such charges have been floating around for 20 years. Why resurrect them when doing so would endanger continuing negotiations with North Korea on the nuclear issue? 
 One readily sees the hand of administration ideologues in this strange turn of events. Obsessed with the desire to punish the North Korean regime, they have successfully sabotaged the State Department-led effort to engage the regime on the nuclear issue. 
 While an aide to Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, quoted in your article, boasts that ''Banco Delta is just a beginning,'' we are left to shudder at the first fruit of this ''beginning'': a nuclear test explosion.

Burton Levin
Northfield, Minn., Oct. 15, 2006

The writer was ambassador to Burma (now Myanmar), 1987-90.

To the Editor:
 Re ''Restraints Fray and Risks Grow as Nuclear Club Gains Members'' (front page, Oct. 15): Former Senator Sam Nunn, in assessing the spread of the bomb, is wrong when he declares, ''We are in a race between cooperation and catastrophe.'' 
 The sad truth, based on the many failures of the Eisenhower program Atoms for Peace, is that cooperation is catastrophe. An expert panel warned President Harry S. Truman that peaceful atomic cooperation offered ''no prospect of security against atomic warfare,'' but President Dwight D. Eisenhower proceeded anyway. 
 Underpinning Atoms for Peace is the flawed notion that nuclear cooperation among countries can proceed on the assumption that ''safeguards'' imposed by the International Atomic Energy Agency will ensure that weapons-usable nuclear technology and fissile materials will be used for civilian applications exclusively. The epitaph of our civilization may be, ''folly from the start, fatal at the end.'' 
 To avoid that epitaph, we don't need more ''cooperation'' and surely not international nuclear fuel centers that spread technical know-how as well as fuel. What's needed is a new toughness toward those who do proliferate, or who want to. 
 Rewarding India for building and testing weapons with plutonium from its Atoms for Peace reactor, slapping token sanctions on North Korea and talking endlessly with Iran are the latest examples of precisely the wrong way to go.

Paul Leventhal
Washington, Oct. 16, 2006

The writer is founding president of the Nuclear Control Institute.

To the Editor:
 Re ''Questions Grow Over U.N. Curbs on North Korea'' (front page, Oct. 16): The United Nations sanctions against North Korea for testing a nuclear device are weak and watered down. China and South Korea will not enforce these sanctions. For them, it will be business as usual. 
 Iran has been watching the whole thing. Does it have much to fear from this feeble body? I think not.

Gary Betts
London, Ontario, Oct. 16, 2006

To the Editor:
 The Chinese have issued the international equivalent of a ''signing statement'' on North Korea (front page, Oct. 15): We'll vote for the United Nations resolution, but we won't enforce it.

Robert McKean
Newbury Park, Calif., Oct. 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); WRITERS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); INDICTMENTS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COUNTERFEITING (53%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: Burton Levin; Paul Leventhal; Gary Betts; Robert Mckean; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); MACAO (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) North Korea; China; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



413 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: Skills Gap Threatens Technology Boom in India

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: TIRUCHENGODE, India 

 BODY:
As its technology companies soar to the outsourcing skies, India is bumping up against an improbable challenge. In a country once regarded as a bottomless well of low-cost, ready-to-work, English-speaking engineers, a shortage looms. 
 India still produces plenty of engineers, nearly 400,000 a year at last count. But their competence has become the issue.
A study commissioned by a trade group, the National Association of Software and Service Companies, or Nasscom, found only one in four engineering graduates to be employable. The rest were deficient in the required technical skills, fluency in English or ability to work in a team or deliver basic oral presentations. 
 The skills gap reflects the narrow availability of high-quality college education in India and the galloping pace of the country's service-driven economy, which is growing faster than nearly all but China's. The software and service companies provide technology services to foreign companies, many of them based in the United States. Software exports alone expanded by 33 percent in the last year. 
 The university systems of few countries would be able to keep up with such demand, and India is certainly having trouble. The best and most selective universities generate too few graduates, and new private colleges are producing graduates of uneven quality.
 Many fear that the labor pinch may signal bottlenecks in other parts of the economy. It is already being felt in the information technology sector. 
 With the number of technology jobs expected to nearly double to 1.7 million in the next four years, companies are scrambling to find fresh engineering talent and to upgrade the schools that produce it. 
 Some companies are training faculty members themselves, offering courses tailored to industry needs and improving college labs and libraries. They are rushing to get first choice of would-be engineers long before they have completed their course work. And they are fanning out to small, remote colleges that almost no one had heard of before. The country's most successful technology concerns can no longer afford to hire only from the most prestigious Indian universities. Nor can they expect recent graduates to be ready to hit the shop floor. Most companies require in-house training of anywhere from two to six months.
 Demand is beginning to be felt on the bottom line. Entry-level salaries in the software industry have risen by an average of 10 to 15 percent in recent years. And Nasscom, which helps companies wanting to outsource find workers, forecasts a shortage of 500,000 professional employees in the technology sector by 2010.
 The labor crunch is starting to pop up across the service economy. ICICI, the country's largest financial services company, announced plans to hire up to 40,000 workers in the next three years. 
 The Retailers Association of India said in July that its fast-expanding industry would need nearly 115,000 workers in the next six months. Reuters reported in October that Google was having trouble finding Indian workers proficient in the languages and design technologies used in the latest generation of Web sites. 
 This year, India's largest software company, Tata Consultancy Services, plans to add 30,000 people to its current work force of 72,000. So it was that on a recent afternoon a four-man team from the company roamed the halls of a college founded by a local textile magnate in this small south Indian outpost. 
 The team came to Tiruchengode with the goals of selecting its next generation of software programmers and assessing how, in the short term, the company could help the college churn out more of what it needed. ''These are the guys who are going to write my Windows 2010,'' as one of the recruiters put it.
 ''We can't afford to let talent go'' was the verdict of A. K. Pattabiraman, a member of the team.
 They grilled professors and administrators: How many faculty members have doctorates? Why did so many students have incompletes by the time they entered their fourth and final year? What software programs do they use for the class in mechatronics -- a combination of mechanics, information technology and electronics?
 They tested the students' ability to reason and speak, tossing out debate topics, like democracy versus dictatorship, and science quiz questions, like what happens to an iron rod put in a beaker of nitric acid. 
 They sampled the offerings at the college library and the English language lab.
 The exercise was part of an elaborate process by the company to assess whether this campus, the K. S. Rangasamy College of Technical Education, can be added to the pool of colleges from which to recruit. 
 In the past, Tata Consultancy Services needed only to turn to the top engineering schools in the country: the nine campuses of the Indian Institutes of Technology and a few others gaining admission can be more difficult than getting into the Ivy League. Today the list includes 209 institutions, many of them, like this one, brand-new private colleges that have emerged to meet the need. Mr. Rangasamy, the college's founder, is himself the product of the Indian economic expansion. His factories produce tablecloths and bedsheets for Kmart and Marriott. 
 Mr. Rangasamy himself has no more than a fourth-grade education and speaks not a word of English. But the cluster of colleges he has built educate nearly 12,000 students. Of those, nearly 3,600 study software engineering, and most of them, college officials say, are the first in their families to attend college.
 The imprimatur of Tata Consultancy would clearly be a prize for the college, and the campus was festooned with flowers and banners welcoming the company team. To be certified as part of the company's pool would mean that its students would have a chance of getting a job even before graduation, and other perks for the college -- faculty training, course materials, research opportunities for teachers and students.
 The number of technical schools in India, including engineering colleges, has more than tripled in the last 10 years, according to the All India Council of Technical Education. Most are privately run. 
 A new kind of institution has emerged to offer intensive English language training and instruction in technical skills required for the workplace for those between college and career. They are called finishing schools, and Nasscom is rolling out its own by early next year.
 In the end, the Rangasamy college did not fit the company's bill. The team found deficiencies in the way basic subjects were taught and deemed the students to be average. 
 Higher education is still available only to a tiny slice of India's young. No more than 10 percent of Indians ages 18 to 25 are enrolled in college, according to official figures. Nearly 40 percent of Indians over the age of 15 are illiterate.
 The industry is lobbying hard to allow private investment in Indian higher education. Right now the government allows only nonprofit ventures, and often they are of varying quality or are the brainchildren of politically connected entrepreneurs.
 The Commerce Ministry has recently floated the idea of private foreign investment in higher education. Indians account for among the largest groups of foreign students in the United States, and India increasingly sends students to other countries, like Australia and Canada.
 Nandan M. Nilekani, the chief executive of Infosys, one of India's biggest providers of technology and back-office services to Western companies, calls the situation a crossroads for his country. 
 With more than half of its population under 25, he said, India could educate its young and open job opportunities for them, or be left with a large, potentially restive pool of unskilled, unemployable youth. ''It is a golden opportunity,'' he said, ''which can be frittered away if we don't do the right thing.''
 India's young engineers are earning salaries unimaginable in their parents' day. 
 They have been preparing intensely as well. Many have been writing code since they were teenagers, or slogging through stiffly competitive exams to get into reputable engineering schools.
 Naini Gomes, 22, landed a job with Infosys at the end of her third year in college. That was not unusual on her campus, an engineering college with a strong reputation in Bangalore. ''Everybody was sitting with at least two jobs,'' Ms. Gomes said.
 The sense of opportunity, in fact, can inject an unnerving self-confidence in Indians of Ms. Gomes's generation.
 ''The way the I.T. sector is booming, this is the place to be,'' said Chinmay Nanavati, a fresh 22-year-old recruit. ''At this point I'm happy with the way things are going. They're going my way.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nandan M. Nilekani, the chief executive of Infosys, at its headquarters in Bangalore. He says India must educate and provide jobs for its youth. (Photo by Aijaz Rahi/Associated Press)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); RETAILERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



414 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: In a Twist, Americans Appear in Ranks of Indian Firms

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: MYSORE, India 

 BODY:
Talk about a reversal of fortune.
 Where once the brains of India left for more lucrative pastures in the United States, today a handful of fresh American college graduates are sampling the fruits of the Indian economic boom.
The recruits from America and elsewhere are not expected to fill the looming labor pinch. But they do illustrate the efforts by Indian companies to extend their global reach and recognition.
 David Craig, 23, is one of the new American imports. He had never left home in Tucson when the Indian outsourcing giant Infosys Technologies came calling at a job fair earlier this year at the University of Arizona, where he was majoring in engineering management. 
 Encouragement came from his career adviser, who, as it turned out, had just bought Infosys stock. Stinging reproach came from his uncle: Why, he wanted to know, would Mr. Craig want to work for an Indian company that might take jobs away from other Americans?
 In the end, tucking away his apprehensions, Mr. Craig took the plunge. International experience, he decided, would look good on his resume. And Infosys would put him through a six-month training course on its campus here in southern India before dispatching him to its development center in Phoenix. Mr. Craig would be one of its American faces.
 Infosys is not alone in its quest to draw talent from abroad. A handful of other Indian companies are also making an effort to add foreign faces and accents to their rolls, though it is hardly a flood. 
 Only a small handful of Americans and others have been wooed by Indian companies so far. 
 Infosys, for instance, has just 126 in its first batch of American trainees this year. 
 Roughly one in 10 of the 72,000 employees of Tata Consultancy Services, India's largest software firm, are foreigners. Many trained here before being sent back to one of the 35 countries where it has operations.
 Air Deccan, the country's second largest carrier, is growing so fast that it simply cannot find sufficient numbers of trained Indian professionals; nearly a quarter of its pilots come from abroad.
 For the job seekers, India represents a new kind of ticket. Katrina Anderson, 22, a math major from Manhattan, Kan., accepted the Infosys offer because, she said, it provided the most extensive training of any company that offered her a job. 
 An added bonus was the chance to travel halfway around the world. ''Some people were scared by the India relocation,'' she recalled. ''But that pretty much sold it for me.''
 When she finishes the training in January, Ms. Anderson, a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, will return to the United States, to work in the Infosys office in Phoenix.
 For the Americans at Infosys, culture shock combines with surprising discoveries. Mr. Craig and Ms. Anderson admitted to having their stereotypes of India quickly upturned. Mr. Craig expected elephants and crowded sidewalks; Ms. Anderson expected stifling heat and women who covered their heads. 
 The Infosys training center, with its 300 acres of manicured shrubbery, is a far cry from the poverty of much of this country. There is a bowling alley on campus, a state-of-the-art gym, a swimming pool, tennis courts and an auditorium modeled on the Epcot Center.
 Mr. Craig, who still calls home nearly every day, says he has made an effort to teach himself a few things about his new, temporary home. He has learned how to conduct himself properly at a Hindu temple. He makes an extra effort to be more courteous. He has learned to ignore the things that rattle him in India -- the habit of cutting in line, for instance, or the ease with which a stranger here can ask what he would consider a deeply personal question. 
 ''I definitely feel like a minority here,'' he said, sounding surprised at the very possibility.
 Ms. Anderson has tried to ignore what she sees as a penchant for staring, especially by men. She has donned Indian clothes in hopes of deflecting attention, only to realize that it has the opposite effect. She has stopped brooding quietly when someone cuts in line. ''I say, 'Excuse me, there's a line here.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A training class at the Infosys campus in Mysore, India. The outsourcing giant counts 126 Americans among its trainees for the first time. (Photo by Nayan Sthankiya for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); OUTSOURCING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (93%); DECCAN AVIATION LTD (53%); TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (57%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (93%); INFY (NYSE) (93%); INFY (NSE) (93%); TCS (NSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (71%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



415 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

WAL-MART NEAR CHINA DEAL -- Wal-Mart Stores, by far the largest retailer in the United States, is laying the groundwork to become the biggest foreign chain in China with the $1 billion purchase of a major Taiwanese-owned supermarket chain, Trust-Mart. The move represents a large step for Wal-Mart's strategy in China, allowing it to more than double its presence there. [A1.] 


WAL-MART DEMONSTRATION -- In a rare demonstration, more than 100 Wal-Mart employees rallied at a store in Hialeah Gardens, Fla., to protest a new policy on employee absences, as well as efforts at the store to cut workers' hours. [C9.]

DISNEY SETS FOOD STANDARDS -- Walt Disney, addressing the growing concerns of parents over child nutrition, said it would curtail use of its name and characters with food items that did not meet new nutritional standards. [C1.]

INDIAN ENGINEERS' CREDENTIALS -- In India -- once regarded as a bottomless well of low-cost, ready-to-work, English-speaking engineers -- a shortage looms. At issue is the engineers' competence: a study commissioned by a trade group, the National Association of Software and Service Companies, or Nasscom, found only one in four engineering graduates to be employable. [A1.]

PAYPAL'S OFFSPRING -- Since 2002, when dozens of employees left PayPal after it was bought by eBay, those workers have gone on to start or join a new generation of Internet companies and other ventures. They include YouTube, the Web video company that Google has agreed to acquire for $1.65 billion. [C1.]

TRAVELING IN STYLE -- In the latest in a series of big, long-haul airliners to be converted to private jets, Lufthansa Technik is to introduce a design based on the Boeing 787. It calls for 35 seats, in a plane that will seat 210 to 330 as a commercial airliner. [C1.]

UNITEDHEALTH OPTIONS -- In the wake of the announcement that William R. McGuire is leaving the UnitedHealth Group as chairman and chief executive, an options grant made years ago to the new chief executive, Stephen J. Hemsley, is raising questions. [C1.]

CRIME'S COST -- Years of rampant violent crime is not only robbing Latin America of significant private investment, but in some cases is also stealing up to 8 percent from national economic growth, economists and World Bank officials say. [C1.]

EX-F.D.A. HEAD CHARGED -- Lester M. Crawford, the former Food and Drug Administration chief who resigned abruptly in September 2005, was charged with lying about stock he and his wife owned in companies the agency regulates, including PepsiCo and the Sysco Corporation. He is expected to enter a guilty plea in federal court today. [A15.]

LAW TRIPS UP WOULD-BE BRIDES -- A law intended to protect women from potential abuse by American men who seek brides from other countries has led to freezes on some visa applications for foreign fiancees. [A14.]

SUN 'DATA CENTER' -- Sun Microsystems has developed a novel ''data center in a box,'' based on a standard 20-foot shipping container, in an effort to transform the fundamental economics of corporate computing. The company is to unveil a prototype today. [C3.]

DOW CLOSES IN ON 12,000 -- Wall Street extended its record-setting advance, sending the Dow Jones industrial average within a whisper of 12,000. The Dow closed up 20.09 points at 11,980.60. [C12.]

TRUCK MAKER MAKES ACQUISITION -- The Oshkosh Truck Corporation, a military and commercial vehicle maker, said it had agreed to buy JLG Industries, a maker of aerial work platforms and booms, for about $3 billion. [C4.]

RUSSIAN OIL LICENSES AT RISK -- In a sign of continuing turmoil in the oil industry in Russia, the government threatened to revoke oil field licenses held by the country's largest private energy concern, Lukoil. The environmental regulator behind the action, Oleg L. Mitvol, above, suspended a permit last month for a project operated by Royal Dutch Shell. [C11.]

SOLAR POWERED -- Google said it would build a massive solar electricity system to provide about 30 percent of the electricity used each day at its one-million-square-foot office complex. [C8.]

TITLE INSURANCE REPORT -- Washington state regulators said title insurance companies there flouted laws by spending thousands of dollars on pro basketball tickets, shopping trips, cocktail parties, boat trips and golf tournaments, in exchange for customer referrals. [C3.]

ONLINE

NEW ERA OF FILMMAKING -- Sharon Waxman of The Times talks with executives from Imagemetrics, a special-effects company whose new facial mapping software could change the way movies are made, in a multimedia report at nytimes.com/technology.

TRYING E-BOOKS, AGAIN -- The new Sony Reader distinguishes itself from all the other failed e-book readers with its sleek, portable screen. David Pogue reports at nytimes.com/technology.

ENERGY GRAB IN RUSSIA -- The Russian government has accused Western energy companies of damaging the environment on Sakhalin Island, but oil analysts say the allegations are economically motivated. A multimedia report is at nytimes.com/business.

MANAGING GLOBALIZATION -- Daniel Altman, the International Herald Tribune's global economics correspondent, offers a look at the day's news, at nytimes.com/business.

HOME FINANCE CENTER -- Bob Tedeschi explains why "exotic" mortgage loans may be on their way out, at nytimes.com/realestate.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Wal-Mart's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); AIRLINES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (70%); AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE REPAIR & OVERHAUL (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); NUTRITION (68%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTERNET VIDEO (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); GUILTY PLEAS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); VIOLENT CRIME (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); SYSCO CORP (60%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); GOOGLE INC (55%); PAYPAL INC (54%); BOEING CO (53%); LUFTHANSA TECHNIK AG (53%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (52%); PEPSICO INC (50%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); SYY (NYSE) (60%); DIS (NYSE) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); UNH (NYSE) (52%); PEP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (60%); NAICS424420 PACKAGED FROZEN FOOD MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (60%); NAICS424130 INDUSTRIAL & PERSONAL SERVICE PAPER MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (60%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (52%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: STEPHEN J HEMSLEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



416 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: WAL-MART IS SAID TO BE ACQUIRING A CHAIN IN CHINA

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and MICHAEL BARBARO; David Barboza reported from Shanghai, and Michael Barbaro from New York. Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Tuesday, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores, the largest retailer in the United States, is laying the groundwork to become the biggest foreign chain in China with the $1 billion purchase of a major retailer here, according to people briefed on the deal. 
 The move represents a large step for Wal-Mart's strategy in China, allowing the American retailer to more than double its presence in a country that, despite its size and growing middle class, remains largely untapped by foreign retailers.
Though the size of the acquisition -- of a Taiwanese-owned supermarket chain called Trust-Mart -- may be modest for Wal-Mart, it is a critical one because the Chinese market is becoming much more pivotal in the retailer's overall international strategy. For Wal-Mart, China represents an opportunity to tap a vast and fast-growing market abroad at a time when the company's sales are lagging elsewhere and it has run into obstacles to expansion at home. 
 ''China is the only country in the world that offers Wal-Mart the chance to replicate what they have accomplished in the U.S.,'' said Bill Dreher, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. 
 Wal-Mart expects to close the deal for Trust-Mart by the end of the year, but it still needs approval by Chinese authorities, according to a person briefed on the transaction. 
 The acquisition is likely to trigger an intense battle among foreign and domestic retailers to gain a strong foothold in the world's fastest-growing economy. 
 The deal puts Wal-Mart neck-and-neck in China with Carrefour, the giant French retailer, which also bid for Trust-Mart. Wal-Mart, which has only 66 stores in China compared with Carrefour's more than 200, outbid not only Carrefour, but also Tesco of Britain and one of China's large retailers, Lianhua. 
 The purchase also highlights the staggering reach of the $300 billion Wal-Mart empire. The company started in rural Arkansas 45 years ago and has become the largest foreign retailer in Mexico and Canada. In numerous other foreign markets, however, Wal-Mart has been stymied, pulling out of Germany and South Korea, or has met strong challenges, as in Japan, where it has struggled to gain a share of the market. 
 By acquiring Trust-Mart, Wal-Mart will not only be able to match Carrefour, but also to compete with much bigger Chinese retailers, like China Resources and the Shanghai Brilliance Group, which are the country's largest retailers with more than $3 billion in sales and more than 8,000 stores combined. 
 Trust-Mart has more than 100 stores with 30,000 employees in more than 20 Chinese provinces, but it operates mainly at the low end of the supermarket chains. One challenge for Wal-Mart will to determine where it will position itself in the retailing market. 
 China's economy is expanding at a rate of 10 percent to 11 percent a year, making it by far the world's fastest-growing major economy. Retail sales are even more robust, jumping by about 15 percent a year for the last several years. 
 Big retailers are fairly new in China, which for decades has been dominated by small regional chains. Indeed, China has no dominant national players in the retail market, which is why Wal-Mart and other international retailers are battling aggressively to expand there. 
 ''China's a very fragmented market and very diverse,'' says George Svinos, head of Asia Pacific retail at KPMG's office in Australia. ''So in order to get any penetration into that market you'd need to make a big move.''
 China, however, is a tricky market for American retailers. Chinese consumers spend less than Americans when they go into stores, but they shop more frequently.
 The average Chinese shopper spends about $4 at Wal-Mart, compared with $20 for the average American, according to Wal-Mart.
 But Wal-Mart and other retailers hope to lure the middle-class Chinese, one of the fastest-growing segments of the population. Already, middle-class shoppers crowd into Carrefour, Wal-Mart and Ikea.
 Other retailers, like Toys ''R'' Us, Home Depot and Best Buy, have just announced plans to open outlets in China. 
 The government has opened its retail market to foreigners, but at the same time, it has also encouraged Chinese companies to merge. In one example, the Shanghai Bailian Group struck a deal with Dashang, which operates the second-largest chain store group, to create new stores. 
 Moreover, China's biggest state-owned retailers and a handful of aggressive entrepreneurs are pushing to create national chains, like Beijing-based WuMart and Gome, the country's largest consumer electronics store, which is owned by one of the country's wealthiest men. 
 Carrefour, which is the largest foreign retailer in China by sales, with more than $2 billion, has been expanding much more aggressively than Wal-Mart. Carrefour plans to open 100 new superstores this year, which will raise its total to more than 300.
 Analysts say that Wal-Mart's expansion has stepped up only in recent years. Up until now, they say, the retailer has not had great advantages over its bigger competitors. It has had high costs in China because systems for purchasing, transportation and distribution are clogged and complicated in a country that is still largely inefficient and without a strong national highway grid.
 Wal-Mart appeared to smooth the way for expansion in China in July when, for the first time, it allowed employees to form a trade union, the company's first in China. The retailer has long battled unions in the United States, arguing they will make the company less efficient.
 In the United States, where Wal-Mart has more than 4,000 mostly suburban stores, its performance has begun to trail that of major competitors, like Target, particularly in sales at stores open at least a year. And Wal-Mart has encountered growing resistance to locating new stores in urban areas. 
 A Wal-Mart spokeswoman, Beth Keck, declined to comment on the Trust-Mart transaction. 
 Wal-Mart entered China in 1996 with a supercenter under its own name and a Sam's Club in Shenzhen, near Hong Kong. In a departure from its practice of buying domestic chains with strong local name recognition, Wal-Mart started by building its business in China on its own.
 But the pace of Wal-Mart's growth in China has been slow. A decade after arriving, it has just 66 stores, failing to crack the list of the country's top 20 retailers; hence, the move to acquire Trust-Mart. 
 Wal-Mart operates stores in 13 countries, including Brazil, Japan, and England, but foreign sales represent just $64 billion, or 20 percent, of its more than $300 billion in annual sales. 
 In several countries, it has discovered its American formula for success -- rock-bottom prices, zealous control of inventory and a wide array of products -- simply does not translate. 
 In Germany, for example, Wal-Mart never established comfortable relations with the powerful unions, which dominate retail in the country. In South Korea, it failed to satisfy the tastes of finicky local consumers. 
 Thus, in a stinging admission of defeat, Wal-Mart pulled out of Germany and South Korea this year after failing to turn around poor sales. 
 Wal-Mart, however, remains committed to Japan, where it operates stores under the name Seiyu, despite lackluster performance. 
 A major obstacle overseas for Wal-Mart has been building a big enough network of stores to compete with local chains and to secure low prices from suppliers. That may explain, in part, why Wal-Mart is eager to grow in China.
 Mr. Dreher, of Deutsche Bank, expects Wal-Mart to expand aggressively there. By the year 2010, he predicts the company will have as many as 400 stores in China.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); APPROVALS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); CARREFOUR SA (85%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); CRR (BIT) (85%); CA (PAR) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (85%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (91%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



417 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: It's a Shipping Container. No, It's a Data Center in a Box. 

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif., Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Sun Microsystems has developed a novel ''data center in a box'' in an effort to transform the fundamental economics of corporate computing.
 The expandable computer system, called Project Blackbox, is based on a standard 20-foot shipping container and can be deployed virtually anywhere there is electricity, chilled water and an Internet connection.
Sun will introduce a prototype at its headquarters here on Tuesday. The system is planned for commercial availability in the second half of 2007, with prices beginning around $500,000. 
 To design the system, Sun turned to W. Daniel Hillis, an independent computer designer who has done pioneering work in supercomputing and artificial intelligence. He is co-chairman of Applied Minds, a consulting and research and development company in Glendale, Calif. 
 Arguing that today's increasingly vast data centers are unwieldy and require corporations to become unwilling computer designers, Sun executives said Blackbox would simplify installation. 
 Such a system would make it possible for New York-based companies to relocate data centers from costly space in the city to low-cost warehouses in New Jersey with minimal effort, they suggested. Or an oil company could locate a high-performance computing system on site -- even on an oil rig.
 In ''The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger'' (Princeton University Press, 2006), the economist Marc Levinson said the container is a crucial component of a commerce system designed to move goods anywhere in the world with maximum efficiency.
 Sun executives said they were trying to take advantage of that model.
 The new systems are not aimed at all types of large-scale computing applications, said Jonathan I. Schwartz, chief executive of Sun Microsystems. Rather, the system is intended for computing projects that need to come to market or to scale up quickly.
 While a standard shipping container might appear less well manicured than a standard company data center, the idea would make sense to corporate computer managers who needed to bring new capacity online quickly, he said.
 ''A company parking lot is just really cheap real estate,'' Mr. Schwartz said.
 Mr. Schwartz rose to the chief executive position less than six months ago with a mandate to reverse the decline Sun has experienced since the end of the dot-com boom. And computing experts suggested that the mobile data center was a gamble that could pay off. 
 ''What an out-there idea,'' said David A. Patterson, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, who has worked closely with Sun and with Mr. Hillis. ''You could convert your warehouse into a modern data center.''
 Mr. Schwartz said the mobile data center would be attractive to customers that need to expand computing capacity quickly. Sun will lease as well as sell the systems, and Mr. Schwartz said the entire system is recyclable.
 On Monday, he gave a reporter a tour of the prototype system, which sits in a container case adjacent to a Sun office building here, connected to two large fire hoses for water cooling and 500 kilowatts of redundant power.
 Painted black with a lime green Sun logo, the system can consist of up to seven tightly packed racks of 35 server computers based on either Sun's Niagara Sparc processor or an Opteron chip from Advanced Micro Devices. The system includes sensors to detect tampering or movement and features a large red button to shut it down in an emergency. Once plugged in, it requires just five minutes to be ready to run applications.
 Sun has applied for five patents on the design of the system, including a water-cooling technique that focuses chilled air directly on hot spots within individual computing servers.
 The system, which Sun refers to as ''cyclonic cooling,'' makes it possible to create a data center that is five times as space-efficient as traditional data centers, and 10 percent to 15 percent more power-efficient, Mr. Schwartz said.
 ''We are targeting customers who are concerned about saving space, power and getting to market quickly,'' he said.
 The project grew out of conversations that Mr. Hillis had with Greg Papadopoulos, Sun's chief technology officer. Mr. Papadopoulos had worked for Mr. Hillis in the 1990's at Thinking Machines, a maker of massively parallel supercomputers based in Cambridge, Mass.
 Long an advocate of the concept of utility computing, analogous to the way electricity is currently delivered, Mr. Hillis said he realized that large companies were wasting significant time assembling their own systems from small building blocks.
 ''It struck me that everyone is rolling their own in-house and doing manufacturing in-house,'' he said. ''We realized that this obviously is something that is shippable.''
 Neither Mr. Hillis nor Mr. Schwartz would comment on whether their prototype is related to reports that surfaced last year about a containerized computing system that was rumored to have been seen in an underground parking lot at Google. 
 Google is typically close-lipped about its data-center designs.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan I. Schwartz, the chief executive of Sun Microsystems, in the expandable computer system, called Project Blackbox, intended for computing projects that need to come to market quickly. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); RELOCATIONS (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (55%) Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (90%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%) Sun Microsystems Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (90%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: JONATHAN I SCHWARTZ (89%) W Daniel Hillis; John Markoff; Jonathan I Schwartz

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



418 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg and Schwarzenegger Become New Best Buddies

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Cassi Feldman conributed reporting.

 BODY:
The odd-couple friendship of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- wealthy, moderate Republican businessmen who are holding their first elected offices and nurturing their national reputations -- took another step forward yesterday with the California governor's trip to New York.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger spent the day in Manhattan touting environmental initiatives and was the star attraction at a fund-raiser for his re-election campaign last night at the mayor's town house. 
Among the attendees were Gov. George E. Pataki, former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, former Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts and the financier Ira L. Rennert.
 Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Schwarzenegger seem to be genuinely fond of each other. Just last month, Mr. Bloomberg went to the headquarters of a Silicon Valley fuel-cell company to announce a plan to measure New York City's fossil-fuel emissions. He also attended two fund-raisers for the governor. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger's visit yesterday was packed with events intended to promote his image as a champion of the environment. 
 The governor rang the opening bell at Nasdaq, which recently established an index to track the performance of companies that invest in renewable-energy technologies.
 Later in the morning, he and Mr. Bloomberg went to an office building on Madison Avenue to tour a Credit Suisse trading floor where European Union carbon-dioxide emissions certificates are traded. They did not make public statements there, but spoke at different places, at different times.
 ''Schwarzenegger has tried to do something different and good,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at an early news conference at City Hall with Adrian M. Fenty, a Washington councilman and the Democratic candidate for mayor there. (Mr. Fenty won the primary in September, in a city where the Democratic mayoral nominee has always won the election.)
 Mr. Bloomberg, a longtime Democrat who switched parties to run for mayor in 2001, stressed his fondness for political mavericks like Mr. Schwarzenegger. 
 ''He's tried to break out of the mold of partisan politics, where you do whatever the party tells you to do,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Nobody thinks that Arnold Schwarzenegger is anybody's puppet. He's his own man, and whether you agree with him or not, that is what I think the voters of California liked when they elected him, and that is why I think they will re-elect him.''
 In the afternoon, Mr. Schwarzenegger joined Governor Pataki for a tour of the Solaire, a 27-story, 293-unit apartment tower in Battery Park City that was completed in 2003 and uses much less energy than a conventional building would. 
 With his fluffed hair and bronzed skin, Mr. Schwarzenegger stood out, yet sounded like any tourist. 
 ''I love New York,'' he declared at a news conference with Mr. Pataki. ''I've been coming here for the last 38 years since I've come to this country, making movies here in this city and promoting my movies, competing and winning bodybuilding world championships, and coming here as a tourist just -- and enjoying myself.'' Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Pataki vowed to explore ways to collaborate on offering economic incentives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Mr. Schwarzenegger last month signed a law that is meant to achieve a 25 percent reduction in those emissions in California by 2020. New York is part of a Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative of Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic states interested in capping emissions and requiring companies that pollute beyond their allowance to buy credits from companies that pollute less. 
 Donors raved about the Californian. ''Governor Schwarzenegger is making a lot of difficult decisions, but I think the people of California understand that it's not an easy job,'' said Joel J. Kassimir, an Upper East Side dermatologist.
 Andrew J. Entwistle, a lawyer from Bedford, N.Y., said, ''He's found a way to bring Californians together, which is something no one thought could be done.''
 Not everyone agreed. The California Democratic Party issued a statement last night lambasting the governor's trip. ''That Schwarzenegger accomplished nothing of substance today for the people of California didn't stop him from arranging another photo-op,'' it said.
 In the morning, Mr. Bloomberg had praised some Democrats. He called Mr. Fenty and Mayors Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles and Cory A. Booker of Newark symbols of hope. ''A new generation of people who are not tied to the old political establishment are willing to go out and try new things,'' he said.
 While the focus was on the California governor, Mr. Bloomberg created some ripples by offering a hint as to his own political aspirations, but just as quickly retracted it. 
 ''I don't want to fuel speculation, but I'd be thrilled to be a constituent of the mayor's,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at one point, referring to Mr. Fenty of Washington. Asked later to clarify, Mr. Bloomberg said: ''You may rest assured, I was joking. And I don't see myself living in Washington, D.C., although I like to visit it and have lots of friends there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg spoke with Gia Schneider, left, and Paul Ezekiel at Credit Suisse yesterday. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%) Elections; Governors (US); Finances; Politics and Government

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%) California; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



419 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Fuel Identified as Plutonium

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER; Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
American intelligence agencies have concluded that North Korea's test explosion last week was powered by plutonium that North Korea harvested from its small nuclear reactor, according to officials who have reviewed the results of atmospheric sampling since the blast.
 The officials, who would not speak for attribution because it was an intelligence matter, were responding to specific questions about what had been learned about the nature of the weapon. 
 As administration and intelligence officials watched for indications that the North might be preparing a second test, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warned North Korea on Monday that it risked even further isolation if it took such a provocative action.
 American officials have reported recent activity at the test site, leading some to believe that another test might be carried out soon.
 The intelligence agencies' finding that the weapon was based on plutonium strongly suggested that the country's second path to a nuclear bomb -- one using uranium -- was not yet ready. The uranium program is based on enrichment equipment and know-how purchased from Pakistan's former nuclear chief. 
 Nuclear experts said that the use of plutonium to make the bomb was important because it suggested that North Korea probably had only one nuclear program mature enough to produce weapons. 
 ''This is good news because we have a reasonably good idea of how much plutonium they have made,'' said Siegfried S. Hecker, the former chief of the Los Alamos National Laboratory and now a visiting professor at Stanford University. Mr. Hecker, who has visited North Korea and is one of the few foreigners to have seen parts of its nuclear infrastructure, said that it was his guess that ''they tried to test a reasonably sophisticated device, and they had trouble imploding it properly.''
 The supply of plutonium materials is known from the days when international inspectors kept tabs on the fuel rods in the North's reactor, and intelligence analysts estimate that North Korea has enough material to make 6 to 10 plutonium bombs.
 Politically, the results of the test may revive last week's finger-pointing about who is more responsible for the Korean test: Bill Clinton or President Bush. 
 As president, Mr. Clinton negotiated a deal that froze the production and weaponization of North Korea's plutonium, but intelligence agencies later determined that North Korea began its secret uranium program under his watch. The plutonium that North Korea exploded was produced, according to intelligence estimates, either during the administration of the first President Bush or after 2003, when the North Koreans threw out international inspectors and began reprocessing spent nuclear fuel the inspectors had kept under seal. 
 Unlike the Clinton administration in 1994, the current Bush administration chose not to threaten to destroy North Korea's fuel and nuclear reprocessing facilities if they tried to make weapons. 
 That threat in 1994 -- which was ultimately resolved with an agreement to freeze the weapons program -- was made by William J. Perry, who was the defense secretary then. In an interview on Monday, Mr. Perry said: ''There was a brief window to catch this plutonium before it was made into bomb fuel. It's gone. It's out of the barn now.'' 
 After a week of some lingering doubt about whether the test had indeed been a nuclear detonation, the office of John D. Negroponte, director of national intelligence, confirmed that much in a statement issued Monday.
 ''Analysis of air samples collected on Oct. 11, 2006, detected radioactive debris which confirms that North Korea conducted an underground nuclear explosion in the vicinity of Punggye on Oct. 9, 2006,'' said the statement, putting on the record a conclusion that officials first disclosed Friday, the night before the United Nations Security Council voted on sanctions. ''The explosion yield was less than a kiloton,'' the statement added.
 It gave no further details, and the officials who described the early findings did not disclose more beyond the conclusion that plutonium, not uranium, was the device's core.
 The determination that the blast was nuclear was announced a day before Secretary Rice was to depart for a trip to Japan, South Korea, China and Russia. She will go to the capitals of the nations that have been engaged in the six-party talks over North Korea's nuclear program except, of course, North Korea.
 The unanimous resolution adopted by the Security Council last week imposing sanctions on military material and luxury goods was proof of ''a strong and firm hand and strong and firm response,'' Ms. Rice said Monday during a State Department news conference. She said the international community wanted ''to leave open a door for North Korea to take a different course if it wishes to do so.''
 Pressed to respond to analysts' assessment that desires by China and South Korea for continued economic and business exchanges with North Korea might trump demands for a stiff sanctions and inspections regime, Ms. Rice said her goal was to work out the details of putting the Council resolution into effect.
 The Associated Press reported Monday from Dandong, China, that customs officials were examining trucks at the North Korean border as China complied with the United Nations sanctions. 
 However, China's ambassador to the United Nations, Wang Guangya, indicated that his nation would not conduct similar searches at sea.
 Mr. Wang made clear that China would not halt ships and board them to search for ballistic missiles or for bomb-making equipment or material that can be used to manufacture nuclear, chemical and biological arms. 
 ''This is a resolution we have to implement,'' he told reporters at the United Nations. ''The question was raised whether China will do inspections. Inspections yes, but inspection is different than interdiction and interception. I think different countries will do it different ways.''
 During the news conference on Monday, Ms. Rice said she was ''not concerned that the Chinese are going to turn their backs on their obligations. I don't think they would have voted for a resolution if they did not intend to carry through on it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (78%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Atomic Weapons; Uranium; Plutonium; Nuclear Tests

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); BILL CLINTON (71%) Thom Shanker; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



420 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Search Power Takes a Stand for Sun Power

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
The Google service called Google Earth captures images of the planet from satellites. Now the search engine company is trying to capture the sun.
 Google said Monday that it would build a large solar electricity system to provide about 30 percent of the electricity used each day at its one-million-square-foot office complex in Mountain View, Calif. 
The system, which would use 9,200 solar cells -- capable of powering 1,000 average California homes -- would be one of the largest corporate solar installations, alternative energy experts said. 
 ''This is significant -- both symbolically and practically,'' said Nicholas Parker, chairman of Cleantech Venture Network, a trade and research group for investors in alternative energy technology.
 David Radcliffe, vice president for real estate at Google, declined to say how much the company expected to spend on the project. He said it would pay for itself in 5 to 10 years.
 Mr. Parker estimated that such a project could cost Google $10 million.
 The system is being constructed by El Solutions, a division of Energy Innovations, based in Pasadena, Calif. 
 Andrew Beebe, president of El Solutions, said solar cells that capture the sun's energy would cover the rooftops of Google's main buildings, along with the tops of several parking structures.
 Mr. Beebe and Mr. Radcliffe said one reason Google was not trying to supply more than 30 percent of its electricity was that the plans required the use of all the available space for the solar cells.
 Google was drawn to solar energy for economic, social and motivational reasons, Mr. Radcliffe said. He said the solar power system, in addition to paying for itself over time, would be socially responsible and would help attract smart, high-level engineers who wanted to work for a company trying to diminish the damage it does to the environment.
 Mr. Radcliffe declined to say whether Google planned to use solar energy to power any of its other offices or the data centers where it keeps its server computers.
 Mr. Beebe said Google would be in no danger of losing power on a cloudy day or because of a malfunction in its solar power system because the company would still rely heavily on the power grid of Pacific Gas & Electric, effectively giving it a backup system.
 Google might even be able to generate surplus solar electricity that it could sell back to PG&E, creating another stream of revenue, said Mr. Parker of Cleantech Network.
 ''Google is now in the utility business,'' he said.
 Mr. Parker said Google was making its move at a time when solar energy was moving ''from a cottage industry to being a significant industry.'' He said he expected that Google's name and influence would help spur the trend.
 ''Big companies targeting the kind of demographics Google targets are falling all over each other to be greener than each other,'' Mr. Parker said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew Beebe, left, of El Solutions and Sergey Brin of Google with one of the solar panels that are to cover the roofs at Google's office center. (Photo by Don Feria for US Newswire, via Google)
 A design image of a solar power system for Google in Mountain View, Calif. Plans call for it to provide 30 percent of the complex's power. (Photo by Google) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (92%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); TRENDS (75%); NETWORK SERVERS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%) Computers and the Internet; Solar Energy; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); PG&E CORP (74%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; El Solutions; Energy Innovations

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); PCG (SWX) (74%); PCG (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (74%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (74%)

PERSON: SERGEY BRIN (58%) Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Mountain View (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



421 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Foursquare Politics, With a Dab Of Dijon

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

The Audacity of Hope
Thoughts on Reclaiming the American Dream
By Barack Obama
375 pages.
Crown Publishers. $25.
 Barack Obama, the junior senator from Illinois and the Democratic Party's new rock star, is that rare politician who can actually write -- and write movingly and genuinely about himself.
His 1995 memoir, ''Dreams From My Father,'' written before Mr. Obama entered politics, provided a revealing, introspective account of his efforts to trace his family's tangled roots and his attempts to come to terms with his absent father, who left home when he was still a toddler. That book did an evocative job of conjuring the author's multicultural childhood: his father was from Kenya, his mother was from Kansas, and the young Mr. Obama grew up in Hawaii and Indonesia. 
 And it was equally candid about his youthful struggles: pot, booze and ''maybe a little blow,'' he wrote, could ''push questions of who I was out of my mind,'' flatten ''out the landscape of my heart, blur the edges of my memory.'' Most memorably, the book gave the reader a heartfelt sense of what it was like to grow up in the 1960's and 70's, straddling America's color lines: the sense of knowing two worlds and belonging to neither, the sense of having to forge an identity of his own. 
 Mr. Obama's new book, ''The Audacity of Hope'' -- the phrase comes from his 2004 Democratic Convention keynote address, which made him the party's rising young hope -- is much more of a political document. Portions of the volume read like outtakes from a stump speech, and the bulk of it is devoted to laying out Mr. Obama's policy positions on a host of issues, from education to health care to the war in Iraq.
 But while Mr. Obama occasionally slips into the flabby platitudes favored by politicians, enough of the narrative voice in this volume is recognizably similar to the one in ''Dreams From My Father,'' an elastic, personable voice that is capable of accommodating everything from dense discussions of foreign policy to streetwise reminiscences, incisive comments on constitutional law to New-Agey personal asides. The reader comes away with a feeling that Mr. Obama has not reinvented himself as he has moved from job to job (community organizer in Chicago, editor of The Harvard Law Review, professor of constitutional law, civil rights lawyer, state senator) but has instead internalized all those roles, embracing rather than shrugging off whatever contradictions they might have produced.
 Reporters and politicians continually use the word authenticity to describe Mr. Obama, pointing to his ability to come across to voters as a regular person, not a prepackaged pol. And in these pages he often speaks to the reader as if he were an old friend from back in the day, salting policy recommendations with colorful asides about the absurdities of political life. 
 He recalls a meet-and-greet encounter at the White House with George W. Bush, who warmly shook his hand, then ''turned to an aide nearby, who squirted a big dollop of hand sanitizer in the president's hand.'' (''Good stuff,'' he quotes the president as saying, as he offered his guest some. ''Keeps you from getting colds.'') And he recounts a trip he took through Illinois with an aide, who scolded him for asking for Dijon mustard at a T.G.I. Friday's, worried the senator would come across as an elitist; the confused waitress, he adds, simply said: ''We got Dijon if you want it.''
 In his 2004 keynote address Mr. Obama spoke of the common ground Americans share: ''There is not a Black America and White America and Latino America and Asian America -- there's the United States of America.'' And the same message -- rooted in his own youthful efforts to grapple with racial stereotypes, racial loyalty and class resentments -- threads its way through the pages of this book. Despite the red state-blue state divide, despite racial, religious and economic divisions, Mr. Obama writes, ''we are becoming more, not less, alike'' beneath the surface: ''Most Republican strongholds are 40 percent Democrat, and vice versa. The political labels of liberal and conservative rarely track people's personal attributes.'' 
 Mr. Obama eschews the Manichean language that has come to inform political discourse, and he rejects what he sees as the either-or formulations of his elders who came of age in the 60's: ''In the back-and-forth between Clinton and Gingrich, and in the elections of 2000 and 2004,'' he writes, ''I sometimes felt as if I were watching the psychodrama of the Baby Boom generation -- a tale rooted in old grudges and revenge plots hatched on a handful of college campuses long ago -- played out on the national stage. The victories that the 60's generation brought about -- the admission of minorities and women into full citizenship, the strengthening of individual liberties and the healthy willingness to question authority -- have made America a far better place for all its citizens. But what has been lost in the process, and has yet to be replaced, are those shared assumptions -- that quality of trust and fellow feeling -- that bring us together as Americans.''
 His thoughts on domestic and foreign policy try to hew to this consensus-building line. Some of his recommendations devolve into little more than fuzzy statements of the obvious: i.e., that America's ''addiction to oil'' is affecting the economy and undermining national security, or that the education system needs to be revamped and improved. Others echo Bill Clinton's ''third way,'' methodically triangulating between traditionally conservative and traditionally liberal ideas.
 Mr. Obama writes that ''conservatives -- and Bill Clinton -- were right about welfare as it was previously structured: By detaching income from work and by making no demands on welfare recipients other than a tolerance for intrusive bureaucracy and an assurance that no man lived in the same house as the mother of his children, the old A.F.D.C. program sapped people of their initiative and eroded their self respect.'' 
 He uses the Bush administration's tough language to talk about national security in the age of terrorism (''if we have to go it alone, the American people stand ready to pay any price and bear any burden to protect our country'') but adds, crucially, that ''once we get beyond matters of self-defense,'' he is ''convinced that it will almost always be in our strategic interest to act multilaterally rather than unilaterally when we use force around the world.'' 
 He assails President Bush for waging an unnecessary and misguided war in Iraq and for promoting an ''Ownership Society'' that ''magnifies the uneven risks and rewards of today's winner-take-all economy.'' Yet he also takes the Democrats to task for becoming ''the party of reaction'': ''In reaction to a war that is ill-conceived, we appear suspicious of all military action. In reaction to those who proclaim the market can cure all ills, we resist efforts to use market principles to tackle pressing problems. In reaction to religious overreach, we equate tolerance with secularism and forfeit the moral language that would help infuse our policies with a larger meaning. We lose elections and hope for the courts to foil Republican plans. We lose the courts and wait for a White House scandal.''
 This volume does not possess the searching candor of the author's first book. But Mr. Obama strives in these pages to ground his policy thinking in simple common sense -- be it ''growing the size of our armed forces to maintain reasonable rotation schedules'' or reining in spending and rethinking tax policy to bring down the nation's huge deficit -- while articulating these ideas in level-headed, nonpartisan prose. That, in itself, is something unusual, not only in these venomous pre-election days, but also in these increasingly polarized and polarizing times.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Barack Obama (Photo by Deborah Feingold)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); LAWYERS (61%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%) Michiko Kakutani; Barack Obama

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



422 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Paying for Better Parenting

 BODY:
New York is searching for new ways to fight persistent poverty, and Mayor Michael Bloomberg's Commission for Economic Opportunity has recommended useful reforms. To encourage families to participate in these programs, the mayor hopes to recruit private donors to provide parents with a cash incentive to make the right choices for their children -- like taking them in for regular checkups and making sure they stay in school. 
 The idea is based on a highly successful Mexican antipoverty program, known as Oportunidades, that is now being tried by at least 25 other countries. Mexico began Oportunidades in 1997. Today it covers one in four Mexican families, helping virtually all the country's poor. The average family gets $35 a month, about a quarter of the rural household income. Families with many children in school can get up to $153 a month, a ceiling imposed to remove the incentive to have more children.
 To get payments for food, mothers must bring their children in for regular health checkups and attend informative talks at health centers. Mothers also get cash if their children attend school at least 85 percent of the time. The payments start after third grade and go through high school, rising each year as dropout rates get higher and a child's forgone earning potential is higher. Because checks go directly from the central government to mothers whose families meet the requirements, administrative costs and the chance of corruption are reduced. 
 From the beginning, Oportunidades built in rigorous evaluation. Those studies have shown that it does focus its help on Mexico's poorest people, and they are benefiting. Children are bigger and healthier. Oportunidades has also cut child labor and led to more schooling. In rural areas, the number of children starting high school increased by 85 percent. 
 Even a rich city like New York can envy such success. Mayor Bloomberg is smart to explore a brilliantly simple idea that is fighting poverty now and poverty later around the world. We hope that donors will rally to the effort.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PARENTING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILD LABOR (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



423 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Shopping For A Nobel

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
I don't want to begrudge the Nobel Peace Prize won last week by the Grameen Bank and its founder, Muhammad Yunus. They deserve it. The Grameen Bank has done more than the World Bank to help the poor, and Yunus has done more than Jimmy Carter or Bono or any philanthropist.
 But has he done more good than someone who never got the prize: Sam Walton? Has any organization in the world lifted more people out of poverty than Wal-Mart? 
The Grameen Bank is both an inspiration and a lesson in limits. Compared with other development programs, it's remarkable for its large scale. Since it was started three decades ago in Bangladesh, it has expanded to more than 2,000 branches. Its micro-loans, typically less than $150, have helped millions of villagers start small businesses, like peddling incense or handicrafts at the local market, or selling milk and eggs. 
 The economist William Easterly, who was afraid Bono was going to get this year's Nobel, calls the bank's prize ''a victory for the one-step-at-a-time homegrown bottom-up approach'' to development. That approach is a welcome contrast to the grandiose foreign-aid schemes that do more harm than good, as Easterly documents in his book, ''The White Man's Burden.'' 
 But there's a limit to how much money villagers can make selling eggs to one another -- a thatched ceiling, as Michael Strong calls it. Strong, the head of Flow, a nonprofit group promoting entrepreneurship abroad, is a fan of the Grameen Bank, but he figures that villagers can lift themselves out of poverty much faster by getting a job in a factory. 
 The best way for third world villagers to tap ''the vast pipeline of wealth from the developed world,'' he argued in a recent TCSDaily.com article, is to sell their products to the world's largest retailer, Wal-Mart. Strong challenged anyone to name an organization that is doing more to alleviate third world poverty than Wal-Mart. 
 So far he's gotten a lot of angry responses from Wal-Mart's critics, but nobody has come up with a convincing nomination for a more effective antipoverty organization. And certainly none that saves money for Americans at the same time it's helping foreigners.
 Making toys or shoes for Wal-Mart in a Chinese or Latin American factory may sound like hell to American college students -- and some factories should treat their workers much better, as Strong readily concedes. But there are good reasons that villagers will move hundreds of miles for a job. 
 Most ''sweatshop'' jobs -- even ones paying just $2 per day -- provide enough to lift a worker above the poverty level, and often far above it, according to a study of 10 Asian and Latin American countries by Benjamin Powell and David Skarbek. In Honduras, the economists note, the average apparel worker makes $13 a day, while nearly half the population makes less than $2 a day.
 In America, the economic debate on Wal-Mart mostly concerns its effect on American workers. The best evidence is that, while Wal-Mart's competition might (or might not) depress the wages of some workers, on balance Americans come out well ahead because they save so much money by shopping there. 
 Some critics, particularly ones allied with American labor unions, argue that the consumer savings don't justify the social dislocations caused by Wal-Mart's relentless cost-cutting. They'd rather see Wal-Mart and other retailers paying higher wages to their employees, and selling more products made by Americans instead of foreigners. 
 But this argument makes moral sense only if your overriding concern is saving the jobs and protecting the salaries of American workers who are already far better off than most of the planet's population. If you're committed to Bono's vision of ''making poverty history,'' shouldn't you take a less parochial view? Shouldn't you be more worried about villagers overseas subsisting on a dollar a day? 
 Some of them prefer to keep farming or to run small local businesses, and they're lucky to get loans from the Grameen Bank and its many emulators. But other villagers would prefer to make more money by working in a factory. If you want to help them, remember the new social justice slogan proposed by Strong: ''Act locally, think globally: Shop Wal-Mart.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (92%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SWEATSHOPS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); MICROFINANCE (72%); GARMENT WORKERS (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (74%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%)

PERSON: BONO (73%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (79%); LATIN AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006



424 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Where Fans Were Called Out Looking

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Heather Woodbury's mother was reared in Flatbush, Brooklyn, where, she explained, ''you can't really have grown up and not have had the Dodgers be part of your life.'' A playwright and performer, Ms. Woodbury remains, at best, a casual spectator. (''If I was really going to get serious, I would probably root for the Red Sox, because they're equivalent to the Brooklyn Dodgers.'') Still, like so many other unreconstructed romantics, she considers baseball a metaphor for life.
 ''I certainly came to feel that baseball is the true theater of America,'' she said in an interview last week. ''It's the stage on which America acts out its passions and exorcises its demons.'' 
So it makes sense that Ms. Woodbury's self-described ''performance novel,'' an ambitious five-hour play called ''Tale of 2Cities: An American Joyride on Multiple Tracks,'' is about two vanished neighborhoods, one in Brooklyn and the other in Los Angeles, viewed through the universal prism of baseball. 
 ''Tale of 2Cities'' splices together three generations of bicoastal fulminations about what Ms. Woodbury described as ''contemporary urban erasure,'' epitomized in the brutal replacement of Ebbets Field in Flatbush by a public housing project and of a Mexican-American barrio in Los Angeles by Dodger Stadium when the team was transplanted there in 1958. 
 ''Baseball is at the heart of urban renewal,'' she said. 
 ''Tale of 2Cities'' is presented in two parts. The script is jagged, even jarring, but also endearingly realistic and funnily loopy. She is a very good listener. 
 ''My mom taught me from an early age to eavesdrop,'' Ms. Woodbury said. ''I call my research intentful eavesdropping. It's sort of interesting to listen to other people hang themselves with words.''
 When an Irish cabby in ''2Cities'' tries to explain to a Puerto Rican teenage girl from Brooklyn that baseball equals life, she replies that she really doesn't care much about baseball.
 ''O.K.,'' Mike the cabbie asks, ''how do you feel about life?''
 The same, she replies.
 ''Dere you go!'' he says. ''You see.''
 At another point, Mike explains why the Yankees were fated to lose the World Series right after the 9/11 attacks.
 ''It was destiny for them to lose so that they could give us hope,'' he says. ''So that we could have something to live for. So that we could pray for next year.''
 Ms. Woodbury, who is 42, grew up in Northern California and fled to New York at 17. Then, as the East Village began to gentrify from '' 'bo-ho' to 'faux-ho,' '' she defected in 1998 to Echo Park, not far from Dodger Stadium in Chavez Ravine, where she lives with her husband, an artist, and their two cats. 
 ''I was feeling displaced in my own neighborhood in the East Village,'' she recalled. ''The underground bohemia I had such a coming of age in was gone, and the people who remembered it were gone.''
 She was familiar with a friend's documentary about the famously flip Dodger Sym-Phony band, which used to play at Ebbets Field, and it didn't take long for her to discover that urban renewal was a common theme. Even now, that theme is being replayed, to some degree, in Brooklyn, as the Nets negotiate for a new arena almost exactly where the Brooklyn Dodgers had hoped to build theirs, and, to a lesser extent, as the Mets and Yankees build new stadiums, too.
 ''Part of the reason I created this piece was to have excuses to go back to New York,'' she said, which she described as a ''real city,'' compared with Southern California's ''archipelago of towns and suburbs.'' 
 Her research itinerary included a Cyclones baseball game in Coney Island, where the team's stadium has contributed to a revitalization that she, like her characters, is ambivalent about.
 ''Part of the human condition is to long for some paradise in childhood that you never really had,'' she explained. ''I partly feel I left New York 'cause I love it so much, and for me and for what I wanted to do, it was becoming more like other places. But New York has a way of reinventing itself.''
 Ms. Woodbury's staccato style evokes John Dos Passos, who, like the urbanist Jane Jacobs, is a hero of hers. She has tried to capture the distinct sounds of each city. ''I tend to get inspired in Los Angeles by landscapes of people, imagining what they're thinking, more of an internal monologue,'' she said. ''With New York, it tends to be people expressing themselves more in dialogue.'' 
 In the play, an ''Old Guy'' from Forest Hills, Queens (echoing Pete Hamill and Jack Newfield), says that after the Dodgers departed for the West Coast, ''the three most hated men in Brooklyn: Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin and Walter O'Malley,'' the Dodgers' owner. 
 In her earlier work ''What Ever: An American Odyssey in Eight Acts'' Ms. Woodbury played every character. In ''Tale of 2Cities'' she shares the stage with six actors, who play multiple parts.
 '' 'What Ever' is more forgiving than this piece,'' she said. ''I do believe in redemption and miracles, but I also see the dark side of human nature. The option is left for the miraculous, but also the option for destruction and annihilation. I like to leave it to choice.''
 Which does she want her audience to choose after nearly five hours of inventive theater?
 ''That's a dangerous question,'' she replied. ''I just want them to feel that they've hung out. It's not meant to be endurance art. I want them to be moved and changed by my work.''

''Tale of 2Cities'' runs through Oct. 29 at Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village; (212) 352-3101.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The performance artist Heather Woodbury on the set of her new play, ''Tale of 2Cities.'' (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); WRITERS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); PUBLIC HOUSING (50%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (91%)

PERSON: Sam Roberts; Heather Woodbury

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



425 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: An OPEC Meeting May Provide a Show of Unity, Without Agreement

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
When oil prices started falling during the summer, OPEC, which had seemed so solid in recent years, began to show cracks. 
 So, in an attempt to demonstrate unity, oil ministers from OPEC countries agreed to meet in Qatar tomorrow to act decisively to stem a 23 percent slide in oil prices since July.
On the surface, OPEC has reached a consensus and agreed to cut its production by one million barrels a day. But there is tremendous skepticism among traders and analysts that the cartel, whose members pump 40 percent of the world's oil exports, will agree on how to allocate the cuts among its members effectively. 
 Without a firm agreement, OPEC's perennial scourges -- overproduction, quota-busting and lack of discipline -- are likely to quickly undermine the group's aim to stabilize prices by removing barrels from the market.
 Yesterday, oil fell 1.7 percent, to $58.93 a barrel, as traders doubted OPEC's ability to reduce production.
 ''Is the meeting a sign of desperation or a sign of organization?'' said Antoine Halff, an energy analyst with Fimat. ''It seems like increasingly frantic window dressing.''
 Representatives from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries were not supposed to meet until December, in Nigeria, but the momentum for an emergency session picked up over past weeks as many OPEC ministers feared an uncontrollable slump in oil prices. 
 Many were surprised by how quickly oil futures fell from their summer high of $77.03 a barrel to a low for the year of $57.59 last week. 
 OPEC's reaction to the sliding prices has created confusion among traders. In recent weeks, many have faulted the group for its erratic communications and contradictory statements. There is little unanimity in the group on when to step in and what price level to defend.
 Some countries, like Nigeria and Venezuela, have been calling vociferously for production cuts and have signaled that they do not want prices to fall below $60 a barrel. 
 But Saudi Arabia, OPEC's biggest producer, has been conspicuously silent in recent weeks. It seems unwilling to defend oil at $60 a barrel and reluctant to intervene just weeks before elections in the United States. Yet analysts believe the Saudis have been quietly curbing their own production, apparently favoring discreet action rather than a public meeting.
 The confusion over OPEC's position comes from the fact that members have been producing at their maximum levels for the past year. In that environment, there was no agreement among them on how to share production cuts. Now that the group needs to act, it has been caught off guard.
 ''OPEC has already failed its first test,'' according to a research note from Societe Generale this week. ''Over the last week, the organization has shown it was totally unprepared to implement an emergency cut, as though the members had not yet considered the likelihood of a trend reversal.''
 Many analysts doubt the group will agree to new quota allocations this week. They say OPEC is likely to postpone what are certain to be tense negotiations over market share until its next meeting, in Nigeria.
 One reason behind OPEC's eagerness to trim production, even with prices at $60 a barrel, is a dim view of the oil market next year. OPEC predicts lower demand for its oil next year, given slower demand and rising supplies from other producers. 
 OPEC's concerns might prove to be well founded, said Jason Schenker, an energy economist at Wachovia. 
 ''If global growth slows, you're likely to get slower oil demand growth, and that could push down prices,'' he said. ''In recent years, the price risk was on the upside. Now, OPEC has to consider a price risk going down.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Quotas; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (55%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (50%); GLE (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: QATAR (93%); NIGERIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Qatar

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



426 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Young, Idealistic and Now Developers

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: OBERLIN, Ohio 

 BODY:
In this quaint but economically stagnant college town 50 miles southwest of Cleveland, Ben Ezinga, Joshua Rosen and Naomi Sabel spent their first four years as typical liberal arts college students, going to class, writing papers and looking forward to graduation. Their last four years in Oberlin, however, have been spent learning hard lessons in real estate. 
 Against long odds, the once young, naive and inexperienced team is nearing the groundbreaking on the first major commercial development in the historic downtown since 1958. They hope they are building not just a mixed-use project, but a model for progressive urban redevelopment under financially difficult circumstances.
''I was about to graduate,'' Ms. Sabel recalled, ''when I noticed a 'for sale' sign on this lot, and I thought, 'Someone should do something with that,' and went on my way. But as I kept walking past it day after day, I started thinking, 'We should do something with that.' '' 
 With neither development experience nor a single class in real estate finance among them, the three friends formed a corporation, Sustainable Community Associates, and as they like to say, played rock-paper-scissors to decide who would be president, chairman and chief executive. 
 It is stories like these that initially caused some in the community to underestimate them, which few are doing now. 
 They have cleaned up a two-and-a-half-acre site that was once occupied in part by an auto body shop, dry cleaner and gas station, and they worked with lawyers, architects and other developers to get plans approved. They also successfully negotiated the City of Oberlin's first tax-increment financing (TIF) bond, in which the city issues a bond to be paid back through taxes generated from the rising property values spurred by a project. 
 Additional site preparation will continue in December, with a formal groundbreaking next spring. 
 ''The polite word might be persistent,'' said Daniel Gardner, president of the city council, when asked to describe how the three were able to persuade the city to issue its first TIF bond. ''Because we were dealing with developers who had no prior experience, we required a whole lot more from them, frankly. But if we're serious about redeveloping downtown, we're going to have to take some risks and make some investments, and this is a slam dunk to me.''
 As far back as anyone can remember, the site on East College Street has hindered growth in the downtown area. By contrast, a few miles to the south Wal-Mart just opened a 155,000-square-foot store that has more retail space than the entire downtown. 
 ''It was a vacant lot when I graduated in 1964'' from Oberlin College, said Richard Baron, chairman and chief executive of McCormack Baron Salazar, a development firm in St. Louis, referring to the East College Street land. ''That site has been a major problem for decades. So when the troika, as I like to call them, approached me about helping them redevelop it, I agreed.'' 
 Mr. Baron, whose firm specializes in mixed-use urban development, greatly influenced the plan for the site: a combination of 49 residential units, 14 of which will be rented at affordable prices and the rest offered for sale; 12,000 square feet of street-level retail space, which will be leased only to local proprietors; 10,000 square feet of publicly accessible open space where concerts and markets will be held; and both underground and surface parking. 
 In addition to Mr. Baron, another important mentor to the team is David Orr, a professor of environmental studies at Oberlin College and an advocate of green building. With Professor Orr's recommendation, the young developers were able to hire an experienced architect, Michael Corby of Integrated Architecture, based in Grand Rapids, Mich.
 ''I was never concerned about their age or experience except that they make me feel really old,'' Mr. Corby said with a laugh.
 ''But really, in addition to David Orr's recommendation, I felt comfortable that these young idealists were figuring out a way to make things happen. They're a very credible force. The model they're creating could be replicated by others.''
 Mr. Corby said that they are incorporating as much green technology as the $15 million budget will allow. But he also was quick to point out that the architectural style will not be New Urbanist, as is de rigueur in small towns trying to recapture a presuburban era with white picket fences and clapboard siding. Instead, the brick, glass and metal palette is ''subtle modernism that's not trying to do anything more than suggest a different era,'' Mr. Corby added.
 A different era is precisely what the three developers hope they are ushering in, one that is not just about mixed-use development, but also about a mix of idealism and pragmatism. On a tour of the site, ''the kids,'' as they are often referred to by people from Oberlin, speak in terms more familiar to social scientists than real estate developers. 
 ''Building up the tax base isn't usually thought of as social action, but a bankrupt city doesn't benefit anyone,'' Mr. Rosen said, who is 27. ''You can take a traditional field like real estate development and make it an avenue for accomplishing social goals.'' 
 Ms. Sabel, 26, said: ''The market wouldn't support a traditional real estate development. So we had to design a project to address the real issues of Oberlin and provide a tangible social value. But the building has to make sense economically at the end of the day.''
 Mr. Ezinga, 27, added: ''When you market a project as a way to promote social values, you get people involved who wouldn't otherwise be interested.'' 
 To that end, the young developers have put together a very complex financial package, including $8.4 million in residential sales. This includes $2 million for the affordable units, which have been purchased by a philanthropic organization, the Kendeda Fund, based in Atlanta; the fund will rent them at below market rate. There is a $1.2 million mortgage on the commercial space, $1.4 million in tax-increment financing from the city, a $200,000 HUD grant, and $3.7 million in new markets tax credits, part of a federal tax credit program for commercial projects in low-income areas. 
 Because of the complexity of the mixed-use plan and financial package, the project has taken longer than anticipated, causing some people in the community to fret about the city's gamble of tax money on inexperienced developers. But Mr. Gardner said he was confident that the project would succeed. ''I wouldn't bet against them,'' he said. 
 While the development team has struggled for four years to get the project off the ground -- working odd jobs and running up their credit cards to survive -- what they are really looking forward to is the day when they will no longer be known for their youthfulness. 
 ''When will we stop being referred to as 'the kids'?'' Mr. Ezinga asked. 
 ''When the building is done,'' replied Mr. Rosen.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ben Ezinga, left, Naomi Sabel and Joshua Rosen, collectively known in Oberlin, Ohio, as ''the kids,'' put together the financial backing and city support for a $15 million development on a site vacant for years. (Photos by top, David Maxwell for The New York Times
 above, rendering by Integrated Architecture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); BONDS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAILERS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); TAX LAW (63%); TAX INCENTIVES (63%) Housing; Retail Stores and Trade; Finances; Government Bonds; Land Use Policies; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Oberlin College; Sustainable Community Associates

PERSON: Ben Ezinga; Joshua Rosen; Naomi Sabel; Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) oberlin (ohio); oberlin (ohio)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



427 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: A Lesson From Europe On Health Care

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Shortly before he moved to Greece last year, an American named John Econopouly received the unpleasant news that he needed a hernia operation. He had the surgery done in Northern California, and it didn't go so well.
 After spending less than a day in the hospital as an outpatient, Mr. Econopouly went to a friend's house to sleep off the surgery and found that his wound had reopened. ''I woke up in a pool of blood and didn't know what to do,'' he remembered. ''Basically, I didn't feel cared for.''
 For this, he paid more than $2,000 over and above the thousands of dollars that his insurance policy paid.
 A few months later, once he had moved to Greece, he found out that he needed a separate operation for another hernia, giving him a chance, unwanted as it may have been, to do his own little comparative study of American and European medicine. 
 The Greek hospital was much dirtier than the one in California, he said, and he was put in a room with a handful of other patients. The stench was brutal. When Mr. Econopouly, a 41-year-old computer programmer for Wall Street, asked for more privacy and said he would be happy to pay extra, the staff laughed at him.
 But the care itself was another story. It seemed much more thorough than it had been in the United States. He spent the day before the operation undergoing tests, including one that discovered a heart murmur, and the day after the operation in the hospital being observed. Although he didn't have Greek health insurance, his final bill was only $700.
 A few weeks ago, I wrote a column arguing that this country's increased medical spending over the last half-century has, on the whole, been overwhelmingly worth it. Thanks to new treatments for everything from premature births to heart attacks, human life has continued to lengthen -- defying expectations -- even without major improvements in public health. Yet, strangely, we talk about medical spending as if it were nothing more than a drag on the economy, rather than an investment in the most important thing of all: our well-being.
 I received about 500 e-mail responses from readers, and the most common reaction was a version of a simple question. ''Why do Americans spend so much more than folks in most other developed countries while getting worse results?'' as Sumati Eberstadt of East Greenwich, R.I., wrote.
 In Greece, the government and individuals combine to spend about $2,300 per capita on health care each year, and the average life expectancy is 79 years. Canada, where the hospitals are probably cleaner, spends about $3,300, and people live to about 80. Here in the United States, we spend more than $6,000, yet life expectancy is just below 78.
 The answer to this riddle turns out to be fantastically complicated --but also fantastically important. Health care costs are already rising at an unsustainable rate, and baby boomers are now entering the most medically expensive years of their life. So if the rest of the world has something to teach us, we should be taking it seriously.
 The most obvious difference between their health care systems and ours -- that their governments provide universal insurance -- certainly plays a big role in the cost differences. Look behind the receptionist at your doctor's office, and you will very likely see a staff of people filing claims to different insurance companies. The insurance companies, meanwhile, employ a small army charged with figuring out how to avoid covering the unhealthy. 
 The administrative costs of our patchwork bureaucracy eat up about 25 percent of health spending, which is why would-be reformers have long focused on these costs. But they aren't the main story. Even in Europe's single-payer systems, administrative costs account for about 15 percent of health spending, once everything is included, according to the Lewin Group, a consulting firm.
 One good way to understand the problem is to look at the share of health spending that the elderly account for in different countries. In the United States, people 65 and older have Medicare, which has administrative costs roughly as low as those of other countries' universal plans. Younger Americans, by contrast, have private insurance, with all its inefficiencies. Yet elderly Americans' share of national health spending is similar to that of the elderly in other countries, as Arnold Kling, an economist, has noted.
 So something beside administrative costs is at work here, and it involves a basic cultural difference. Americans seem to be less willing to take no for an answer and more willing to try almost anything, no matter how expensive or how slim the odds, to prolong life. (The United States is also a fatter, more diverse country with wider income disparity, which gives our medical system a harder task.) 
 There are enormous benefits to the American refusal to go gently into that good night. It has made us obsessed with medical advances and turned this country into the world's research laboratory. If you followed this year's Nobel Prize announcements, you may have noticed that every scientific prize went to an American. Even hernia surgery, which has been around for 5,000 years, is now based in significant part on American methods, notes Raymond C. Read, a retired surgeon who has studied its history. Some of our spending, in short, goes to support medical care in other countries.
 But much of it is simply wasteful. Expensive procedures -- like some Alzheimer's treatments, some knee surgeries and many body scans -- are often no more effective than basic ones, according to research. Yet doctors can keep on getting reimbursed for the expensive ones. ''Basically, anything that doesn't kill patients is paid for by Medicare and insurance companies,'' said Jonathan Skinner, a health care researcher at Dartmouth College. 
 This, I think, is the main lesson that we could stand to learn from Europe and Canada. We Americans tend to treat any rejection of a health claim as some conspiracy by insurance companies, the government, doctors and the pharmaceutical industry. In other countries, people have arrived at a better understanding that health care necessarily involves economic triage -- that $10,000 spent on quixotic care is $10,000 that can't be spent more usefully. 
 Fortunately, there are some causes for optimism. Medicare has started pilot programs that pay more for care that gets results, and business leaders in a number of cities are making similar efforts locally. The Institute of Medicine has put together an impressive panel to look at the effectiveness of different kinds of care. 
 Eventually, you could imagine a set of scientific standards to determine which care would be covered by Medicare, as Dana Goldman of the Rand Corporation, a research group, says. The corporate tax deduction for health benefits could also be changed so insurance that covered wasteful care was not eligible. Given this country's culture, we would certainly set the bar higher than Europeans have, and people who wanted to spend their own money on sketchier care would be free to do so.
 The important thing to remember is that we can't simply avoid these decisions. One way or the other -- wisely or capriciously -- we will end up restraining health care spending. In fact, we are already doing so. That's why there are 47 million Americans without health insurance.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Economix column in Business Day on Oct. 18 that compared medical insurance in the United States to other countries referred incorrectly to the 47 million uninsured people in the United States. The figure includes noncitizens; they are not all Americans. (The error was repeated in a front-page article yesterday about hospitals that offer free basic care to the uninsured.)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''HEALTH EXPENDITURE PER PERSON''2003, in U.S. dollars adjusted for inflation*Life expectancy at birth, 2004United States: $6,252 (77.9)Switzerland: 4,211 (81.2)France: 3,337 (80.3)Germany: 3,290 (78.6)Sweden: 3,005 (80.6)Japan: 2,462 (82.1)Mexico: 666 (75.2)*Based on purchasing power parity(Sources by O.E.C.D.
 C.D.C.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (69%); INSURANCE POLICIES (69%); MEDICARE (51%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Tests and Testing; Medicare; Doctors; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (59%) Institute of Medicine

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); GREECE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



428 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Prices Fall, but Some Signs of Inflation Persist

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
A sharp drop in the price of gasoline helped push wholesale prices down in September at the fastest pace in three years, the Labor Department reported yesterday.
 The Producer Price Index, a measure of what businesses charge one another for finished goods, fell 1.3 percent in September. It has risen in all but two month so far this year.
That bit of good news in the government report masked some unexpected signs of higher inflation. When the volatile prices of energy and food are omitted, the core index of producer prices -- an inflation measure watched by economists and the Federal Reserve -- increased more than expected in September, pushed up mainly by higher automobile prices. 
 The 0.6 percent rise in the core index, which was the largest month-to-month jump in nearly two years, helped sour what was shaping up to be a record-setting day yesterday on Wall Street. On Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average flirted with 12,000. But yesterday, stocks fell as the mixed report on producer prices overshadowed strong corporate profits from Merrill Lynch, Johnson & Johnson and others. [Page C12.]
 The bond market, however, had the opposite reaction. Bond prices rose yesterday while yields fell, a sign that traders did not think the rise in core producer prices would be a concern in the months ahead.
 Wall Street had not expected the Labor Department report to show such elevated core prices. Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent increase in the core index for September. By contrast, the overall index, including food and energy, fell 1.3 percent last month, more than in any month since mid-2003. 
 Despite that decline, the core-index figures raised a question of whether inflation has started to moderate, as some other statistics had suggested. It may also dampen expectations that the Fed will lower interest rates any time soon.
 ''This is a warning for economic forecasters not too get too sanguine,'' said Gregory L. Miller, chief economist of SunTrust Banks. ''Sometimes we get these indicators that remind us we're not in control.''
 On Wednesday, the Labor Department will release another barometer of inflation, the Consumer Price Index. Economists expect September's data will show a 0.2 percent rise in the core rate, according to a survey by Bloomberg News. That would mean that inflation is running well above a level that Fed members have said they consider healthy. 
 In the last two months, the Fed has stopped tightening monetary policy and has held its benchmark short-term federal funds rate at 5.25 percent. With the economy slowing, many economists and investors have been betting that the Fed may cut rates in the foreseeable future. 
 A fresh sign that the economy is cooling came yesterday, when the Commerce Department reported that industrial production unexpectedly fell 0.6 percent in September.
 Still, members of the Federal Reserve's policy-setting Open Markets Committee, including the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, have said they remain concerned about rising prices. And minutes from their Sept. 20 meeting, released last week, show that uncertainty over inflation was a subject of much discussion at the Fed. 
 Economists noted that the September jump in the core index of producer prices was largely a result of rising auto prices and was probably not a major concern. Reversing a recent downward trend, auto prices rose in September at the fastest rate in 15 years. That added more volatility to the index, whose fits and starts from month to month can make reading the broader trend difficult. 
 ''Once you sort through the noise, there's very little inflation,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR. ''Just as last month's numbers didn't tell you we're having significant deflation at the core producer level, this month's number doesn't tell you the opposite.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Producer Prices''Index of finished goods prices, 1982=100, seasonally adjusted.Sept.: -1.3%Aug.: +0.1July: +0.1Graph tracks index of finished goods prices, 1982=100, seasonally adjusted, since 2005.(Source by Labor Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (94%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%) United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Automobiles

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (68%); STI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



429 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1852 words

HEADLINE: Not Coming Soon to a Lot Near You

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: NINGBO, China 

 BODY:
Every day in cities like this one, Chinese factories churn out waves of exports that flood markets in the United States and Europe: DVD's, microwave ovens, furniture, washing machines, shoes and more. 
 So it is no surprise that as China's industrial revolution advances, Western automakers and their workers have begun to worry seriously that an invasion of Chinese cars will begin soon.
It turns out it probably will not be so soon after all. 
 Despite growing anxiety that the Chinese would quickly seek to conquer yet another important industry, it now looks as if it will be at least another several years before Chinese automakers start exporting large numbers of cars they both design and make. They had intended to start selling their own brands in the United States as soon as 2007 but have pushed off their plans by a couple of years. 
 And now, some Chinese auto executives admit, it could be as late as 2020 before they will be ready to take on the world auto market. 
 That's not to say that the Chinese will not follow in the footsteps of Japanese automakers, who first sent over chintzy cars that were roundly criticized, only to set new standards for the industry in later years. 
 Still, despite China's manufacturing prowess, it is, for now, proving a lot harder than automakers here anticipated to make cars that appeal to Western tastes. 
 While Chinese cars are inexpensive and approaching Western levels of reliability, Chinese automakers have not yet brought their styling, safety, emissions and performance standards up to snuff, let alone their skill at marketing home-grown nameplates around the globe. 
 In one glaring example last year, a German automobile club tested one of 700 vehicles shipped to Europe by a tiny Chinese manufacturer of sport utilities. It came up with a result that humiliated the Chinese officials who oversee the mostly state-owned Chinese car industry: the vehicle, the Landwind New Vision, got the worst crash rating the club had ever awarded in 20 years of testing. 
 ''Most of the Chinese companies that were preparing for exports have turned cautious, because this is a very difficult job,'' said Lawrence Ang, a board member who oversees international finance at the Geely Group, a large, publicly traded Chinese automaker.
 Chinese subcompact cars from manufacturers like Geely and Lifan have surprisingly ample headroom, but fall short of Western tastes in other areas. The exteriors of Chinese cars tend to have simple curves and straight lines that are easy for factories to stamp out of steel, but look starkly utilitarian by Western standards. Even names like Geely (pronounced JEE-lee) are unfamiliar.
 China's automakers also face rising wages at the same time the country's currency is gradually appreciating, making Chinese exports more expensive abroad. 
 ''It is a message for us,'' said Jiang Lei, the executive vice chairman of the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, a government agency that guides the industry. ''We cannot rely on cost alone. We have to improve our technology and management level.'' 
 Any delay, however, is welcome news to Detroit automakers, which already have been trimming thousands of workers and closing plants as they continue to lose sales to foreign rivals, especially the Japanese. The extra time to prepare for the Chinese onslaught could help American automakers protect their turf. 
 That could help defuse tensions arising from the growing American trade deficit with China, already running this year at an annual pace of $185 billion, and still rising.
 For all the fears expressed at auto shows from Detroit to Paris in recent months, China's auto industry does not appear to have any magic formula for making cars. Like other industries in China, this one is dominated by foreign joint ventures and subsidiaries of multinationals, which are building cars for sale in the local market first and plan to export later.
 Western anxieties were sparked early this year when Geely surprised auto executives by displaying a subcompact at the Detroit auto show that it had designed by itself. Target dates for exporting -- as early as next year -- were buzzing around. Meanwhile, Chery Automobile, a rival of Geely, announced that it, too, was planning to export a fully Chinese-made car next year to the United States. 
 But now, said Mr. Ang, the Geely board member, his company has no plans to export cars to the United States until ''2009, 2010 or 2011.'' Meanwhile, Chery has twice pushed back its target date for exports to the United States, first from 2007 to 2008, and then again to 2009. 
 Other Chinese automakers are even more cautious. Shanghai Automotive Industry, First Auto Works and Dongfeng Motor -- joint venture partners of multinational automakers that are taking steps to produce their own cars -- have all taken go-slow approaches to exports in recent months. And they are refusing to set targets for selling to advanced countries.
 Chinese automakers still have strong advantages that will help them in the long run -- skilled and diligent workers like Ai Biaohui, for instance, a strapping 22-year-old at the sprawling Geely operations here in east-central China, who labor for less than $250 a month. Chinese cars often retail for a quarter or more less than models of similar size in the United States, with domestic subcompacts selling at home for $7,000. 
 Moreover, the government supports the industry by allocating to automakers the choicest land, near deepwater ports. The site for the Geely factory here in Ningbo, for instance, is just 600 yards from the docks.
 And there are other intangibles. Geely, among the more efficient makers, not only does not have to worry about unions, it even hires drill sergeants from the People's Liberation Army to improve discipline.
 In visits across the country to car factories run solely by Chinese companies, it is apparent that most are not ready for global competition.
 At a BYD factory in Xian in western China on a recent afternoon, for example, car engines were stacked up like 15-foot walls along both sides of the assembly line because of a delivery mix-up. 
 Workers in blue jumpsuits worked between the man-made heaps of plastic-wrapped engines. The jumble of cars at the end of the assembly line made it hard for workers to move cars off the production line. 
 Chery, in Anhui province in east-central China, has delayed exports partly to focus on improving safety. Malcolm Bricklin, who has a distribution agreement with Chery to sell its cars to dealers in the United States, said that Chery had realized that regardless of price, American buyers expected cars to exceed minimum standards for safety and passenger comfort.
 If Chery cars were subjected to crash tests now, he said, ''they could pass regulations, but they would not be five-star crashes.''
 Still, some Chinese automakers have a slight head-start through their joint ventures, which tie some of them to Japanese and Korean manufacturers that have already gone through the long process of developing a manufacturing backbone and figuring out the marketing networks needed to navigate the United States and Europe. 
 From a joint venture in the southeastern city of Guangzhou, Honda now exports hatchbacks to Belgium. DaimlerChrysler is working out the final details for a joint venture with Chery to build Chrysler-designed Dodge subcompacts in east-central China for export to North America, using a combination of imported and locally made parts.
 Nanjing Automobile has bought the MG name and much of the factory equipment from Britain. But three of the first four models planned for the American market will be sedans carried over from British designs. Only one, a coupe, will be designed in China, said Duke Hale, the president and chief executive for North American operations. 
 The exporter of Landwind New Vision sport utilities, which failed the German testing, will try again, according to Peter Bijvelds, the chief executive of LWMC, the Dutch importer of the vehicles to Europe.
 The New Vision had met all safety regulations, he said. But he conceded that the test had hurt. Now, LWMC plans to try importing a completely different model from China next summer.
 Japanese and Korean automakers cracked the American car market by climbing up a ladder of larger and costlier models. China, too, will start with low prices.
 But the global market has become so integrated and competitive that China will have to move much faster than past companies in building manufacturing capability and technology.
 In the case of Japan, automakers had time to experiment with inexpensive subcompacts, like the early Honda Civic, before moving to reliable midsize cars and on to technologically advanced luxury models like the new Lexus GS 450h, a gasoline-electric hybrid sedan. 
 Yet the bottom rungs of that ladder have largely disappeared since then. The reliability of used cars has increased and financing and warranties for them have become widely available. This has pushed many economy cars out of the market.
 The toughest part of building a car comes in making thousands of little tradeoffs: designing one part a little thicker or stronger and a neighboring part a little thinner or lighter.
 This is all done with the goal of tuning the ride and handling to Western levels -- often more an art than a science. Chinese auto executives concede they are far behind in this process, known as systems integration.
 ''You're not talking about something malfunctioning, but the look or the feel is not right,'' said John Humphrey, a senior vice president in China at J. D. Power and Associates.
 Moreover, much of the current cost advantage enjoyed by Chinese automakers because of their cheap labor will inevitably melt away as they improve quality and buy better catalytic converters and other technology to meet American safety and emissions standards, said Mike Jackson, the chairman and chief executive of AutoNation, the biggest car dealership chain in the United States.
 China's many state-owned automakers and their auto parts suppliers appear to be stumbling as they try to modernize, partly because they are so heavily subsidized by the government. 
 At the Fast Gear truck transmission factory in Xian, for example, robots with flashing lights carry truck transmissions a couple hundred feet as workers add parts to them. Though a conveyor belt would work just as well -- as would cheap unskilled workers pushing trolleys -- the factory's management takes pride in the spanking new robots.
 ''In this factory you can hardly find any workers,'' boasts Qian Qunzhu, a deputy director of the factory.
 The more typical Chinese factory, however, resembles the Geely plant here where Mr. Ai works. One of his jobs is to use a hammer and chisel to widen or narrow the brake light aperture and other spaces on unpainted, freshly welded car frames so that the cars will fit together properly when fully assembled.
 ''The hard part,'' he said, standing beside a short row of car frames that needed his attention, ''is to get the gaps just right.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers on the assembly line at the Geely factory in China. (Photo by Qilai Shen for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Finished cars are lined up at the Geely factory in Taizhou, China. Early this year Geely surprised auto executives by displaying at the Detroit auto show a subcompact that it had designed by itself.
 A worker pushes a car body at the Geely factory in Taizhou, Zhejiang Province. Geely plans large export to the United States in 2009 or later. (Photographs by Qilai Shen for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Not a Powerhouse at Home''Joint ventures dominated by multinationals hold most of the Chinese domestic auto market.SHARE OF CHINA'S AUTO MARKETCars and light trucksGraph tracks percentage of foreign joint ventures and Chinese automakers from 2000 through August 2006.LEADING CHINESE AUTOMAKERSAs of August 2006Chery: 7.0%FAW XialiIt uses designs licensed from Daihatsu and Toyota: 5.1Geely: 5.0Harbin Hafei: 1.8Great Wall: 0.9%Other: 6.8(Source by Automotive Resources Asia)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (62%); CURRENCIES (60%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Design; Consumer Behavior; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Automobiles; Automobiles

COMPANY: CHONGQING LIFAN INDUSTRY (GROUP) CO LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Geely (Co); Lifan Group; Chery Automobile Co; FAW Xiali; Harbin Hafei; Great Wall Automotive Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (53%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (79%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



430 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Jobs Rebound On Wall Street 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Wall Street is adding jobs and its profits are growing after a period of contraction, according to a report released yesterday by State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi. According to the report, the securities industry, which paid $49 billion in wages and $2.1 billion in city taxes in 2005, added an average of 9,500 jobs a year from 2003 to 2005. The increase represents a recovery of one-third of the jobs the industry lost from 2000 to 2003. Total annual wages in the securities industry grew by 36 percent between 2003 and 2005, three times faster than wages in the rest of the city's economy. The report also reflected the rising inequality in the city and elsewhere. The average salary in the securities industry surged to $289,664 last year, a nearly 28 percent gain since 2003. The figure is 5.1 times the average salary in other industries now, compared with 2.5 times in 1990. SEWELL CHAN (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); BONDS (74%) Stocks and Bonds; Wages and Salaries; Labor

PERSON: Sewell Chan; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



431 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Criminal Gang Controlling Russian Banks is Exposed 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
A summary of the top stories in Russian newspapers on Wednesday.

TOP STORY
CRIMINAL BANKING SYNDICATE UNCOVERED: The economic security department of the Russian Interior Ministry announced on Tuesday that a criminal gang in control of several Moscow banks was involved in a massive money laundering and illegal monetization scheme, the major newspapers reported. The group laundered close to $7 billion in about half a year, sending the money to Europe, the United States and former Soviet states, the newspapers wrote.
 Kommersant reported that the criminal syndicate, with ''ethnic and financial ties to criminal agents in the Georgian diaspora, had infiltrated eight banks. Nezavisimaya Gazeta wrote that two principal banks were involved in money laundering, along with another 10 credit institutions. The newspaper also reported on the involvement of several nongovernmental organizations, including the Educational Union, Harmony and the Foundation for the Support of Invalids and Veterans. 
 The criminal organization consisted of 10 people and was headed by a Georgian, Dzhumber Elbakidze, also know as Dzuba, Kommersant reported. The interior ministry said that Mr. Elbakidze, a Tbilisi native, had links to Georgian veterans of the Abkhaz war and with Russian criminal organizations, the newspaper reported. Kommersant also said that Mr. Elbakidze may have been involved with the Finance Ministry, the Russian Bank and law enforcement.
 The Central Bank last year revoked the licenses of the two principle banks involved in the money laundering scheme, Izvestia reported. Andrei Kozlov, the slain deputy head of the Central Bank oversaw the revocations, which, Izvestia speculated, may have led to his murder. Nezavisimaya Gazeta wrote that the fight against illegal monetization began several years ago when the Central Bank strengthened regulations over cash withdrawals by companies looking to circumvent tax payments. 
 Kommersant reported that the Interior Ministry had not yet filed charges in the case and expressed skepticism about whether any members of the criminal gang, most of whom now live abroad, would be brought to justice. The whereabouts of the group's leader, Mr. Elbakidze is unclear. Kommersant wrote that he was in Russia, while Gazeta said he was abroad. Gazeta also wrote that law enforcement agencies from Germany, Austria, Latvia, Lithuania, Israel and Switzerland took part in the investigation. 

IN OTHER NEWS

NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA
INVENTOR OF LIVE JOURNAL ARRIVES IN MOSCOW: --The 26-year-old American inventor of the enormously popular blog portal, Live Journal, arrived in Moscow on Tuesday, most likely for promotional reasons. Russia has about 400,000 Live Journal users, including many journalists, businessmen and political activists. Many users consider it an ideal platform for political ranting, gossip and virtual provocations since, with its server located in the United States, it is difficult, if not impossible, for Russian law enforcement to infiltrate.

GAZETA
ACQUITTALS ABOUND: A St. Petersburg court on Tuesday acquitted all 5 defendants accused of murdering a Vietnamese student in October 2004. According to defense lawyers, the jury found that there was insufficient evidence to convict the accused. In a separate trial, the court acquitted 8 defendants and found a further 9 guilty of hate crimes in connection with the beating of a Palestinian and Chinese student, the robbery of a citizen from Ghana and an attack on an Azerbaijani citizen. A trial earlier this year on the murder of a Congolese student also ended in complete acquittal for those charged.

KOMMERSANT
PRO-RUSSIAN PROPAGANDA ABROAD: The state-run newspaper, Rossiiskaya Gazeta, is launching a large-scale international propaganda project to boost Russia's image abroad. The publication has signed agreements with The Washington Post, The Daily Telegraph and the Chinese People's Daily on the publication of the newspaper's supplements, and plans to publish in further nine countries soon. The informational supplement will highlight Russia's attractive investment climate, culture, historical value and sports successes.

VREMYA NOVOSTEI
EUROPEAN RESOLUTION SUPPORTS GEORGIANS: The European Union passed a harsh resolution on Tuesday calling on Russia to stop harassing Georgians on its territory, and raised concerns over Russia's blockade of Georgia. The European Union also expressed its serious concern about the economic, political and humanitarian effects of the measures taken by Russia against Georgia. The newspaper said that the resolution may impact negatively on President Vladimir V. Putin's meetings with the European Union at a summit on Oct. 20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); SYNDICATED LOANS (90%); MURDER (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); JURY TRIALS (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); EVIDENCE (61%); VERDICTS (61%); ACQUITTAL (61%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); LATVIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



432 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: 2 Exchanges In Chicago Will Merge

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Heather Timmons contributed reporting from London and Jenny Anderson from New York.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade, longtime fierce competitors, said Tuesday that they would merge in an $8 billion deal creating the largest market for financial derivatives contracts in the world.
 The transaction would be the latest in a wave of mergers among the leading financial exchanges, as they transform themselves from member-owned clubs to for-profit companies competing in markets that have become increasingly global and electronic.
The New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Stock Market and smaller exchanges have announced mergers, and the New York exchange's recent pursuit of Euronext, operator of four European stock markets, is driven in large part by Euronext's derivatives exchange in London.
 A combination of the two Chicago markets, which were founded in the 19th century to trade agricultural futures, would trumpet the spectacular rise of derivatives -- financial contracts whose value is tied to or derived from currencies, interest rates, commodities or other things of value. 
 Derivatives have made risk more manageable for many businesses, including oil companies seeking to insure themselves against storms and banks trying to protect themselves against home mortgage defaults. Yet they have also fueled trading blow-ups, as in the near-collapse in 1998 of the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management that shook the financial markets.
 The business of trading such financial contracts has generated huge fortunes that have led many exchanges to begin looking for merger partners. They seek to create greater efficiency and more liquid markets where buyers and sellers more easily find what they want for the right price, much as on eBay.
 By combining, the Chicago exchanges, to be named the CME Group, will have average daily trading volume of close to nine million contracts a day, representing $4.2 trillion in notional value, or the amount of the underlying assets, not the value of the contracts themselves. By a comparison of sorts, some 1.8 billion shares, or $87.2 billion, are traded on average on the New York Stock Exchange, the world's biggest stock market, every day, although those shares, unlike derivatives, represent direct ownership stakes.
 ''That makes us the risk capital of the world,'' said Terrence A. Duffy, the mercantile exchange's chairman.
 The combination of the two exchanges also signals the growing importance of Chicago as a center of global finance. The board of trade pioneered the concept of a futures contract -- the delivery of a specific commodity by a certain date -- in the 1860's, originally for grains like corn and wheat. The mercantile exchange led the push into electronic trading in the early 1990's.
 Since then, these Chicago markets have been pressing further into the ever-growing world of trading derivatives contracts. 
 Derivatives can refer to a futures contract that is tied to the price of a commodity, like soybeans, and it can refer to arcane financial products not traded on any exchange, like credit default swaps, which can be negotiated between two hedge funds. 
 Often, the bet is not central to the underlying asset's role; a bet on the coin toss in a football game rather than the outcome of the game itself would be a derivative bet, for example. Or a contract to hedge the weather risks affecting crop prices, rather than the future prices of those crops, would also be considered a derivative.
 Driven by companies' increasing desire to hedge risks, the derivatives markets have been growing rapidly. Since 2004, the notional value of interest rate, equity and credit derivatives has risen 44 percent, to $283.2 trillion, according to the International Swaps and Derivatives Association.
 ''The notional amounts are eye-popping,'' said Janet Tavakoli, president of Tavakoli Structured Finance in Chicago.
 The two exchanges, situated a few blocks from each other in Chicago's downtown Loop, have storied histories. The board of trade once financed the formation of three regiments and an artillery battery for the union army during the Civil War, and the exchange's first building was torched in the Chicago Fire of 1871. The mercantile exchange began as the Chicago Butter and Egg Board, later branching out to frozen pork-belly futures and live-cattle futures contracts.
 While a half-century older, the board of trade was slower to move to electronic trading and to issue public stock, causing it to lose ground to the mercantile exchange. The move to electronic trading, led by the Chicago Merc, has made the board of trade's clubby floor-trading world less relevant. 
 ''The C.B.O.T. had to be dragged into the 21st century kicking and screaming,'' Ms. Tavakoli said.
 Tuesday's announcement took some in the financial world here by surprise because the two exchanges, despite their intense rivalry, had discussed combining off and on for more than three decades. The ice began to thaw between them after they struck an agreement in 2003 for both to use the Chicago Merc's clearinghouse, the board of trade's chairman, Charles P. Carey, said in an interview.
 After his exchange finally went public last year, the newly issued stock provided a currency to consider such a deal. ''When we had member organizations,'' Mr. Carey said, ''the hurdles were insurmountable.'' 
 Last December, over dinner at Gene & Georgetti's, a popular steakhouse here, Mr. Duffy and Mr. Carey began to discuss a deal seriously. The talks accelerated over the last eight weeks, Mr. Duffy said.
 The combination is expected to save $125 million annually in the second year after the deal closes, mostly through cuts in administrative and technology areas, the companies said. The exchanges will combine their trading operations into one trading floor at the board of trade.
 But the mercantile exchange clearly prevailed over its rival. Mr. Duffy will become chairman of the combined organization, with Mr. Carey, vice chairman. Craig S. Donohue, chief executive of the mercantile exchange, will head the CME Group. The mercantile exchange will have 20 of the 29 board seats.
 The deal faces regulatory scrutiny and a stiff breakup fee of $240 million if either exchange walks away. Regulators are expected to examine whether the combined entity can leverage its share of the futures and derivatives market into pricing power.
 The merger ''will create a mammoth enterprise with extraordinary pricing power,'' said Meyer Frucher, the chairman and chief executive of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. ''Ironically, it may create more opportunities for others.''
 Mr. Duffy and Mr. Donohue said that with an increased focus on electronic trading, the merged exchanges will make markets more transparent and more liquid for investors.
 Mr. Donohue said the CME Group would compete more aggressively to build the exchanges' derivatives market in Europe and Asia. Some traders said it would face tough sledding against Euronext's London-based derivatives business and the Deutsche Borse's Eurex derivatives market. 
 Jay Feuerstein, who heads Xenon Capital Management in Chicago, a hedge fund that focuses on trading futures contracts, said: ''It will be tough for the mercantile exchange to take on the European exchanges and beat them. If they decide to offer some of the products that the Chicago exchanges offer, they have some built-in competitive advantages.''
 Mr. Feuerstein added, ''I am going to trade where there is the deepest liquidity, the cheapest transaction costs and the least credit risk.''
 Still, while the deal could increase the CME Group's reach overseas, the combination could stifle plans by Euronext and the New York Stock Exchange to increase its derivatives business in the United States. Euronext agreed to merge with the Big Board this summer, explaining in part that the move could create revenue opportunities related to derivative operations, some of which included plans to grow in the United States.
 The combination of the two exchanges ''makes them into a very, very big competitor indeed," said Lynton Jones, a founder of Bourse Consult in London. ''Euronext has been trying to get into U.S. markets without much success. They thought with the clout of the N.Y.S.E. behind them, they might do something. But I don't see what that could be now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the agriculture floor of the Chicago Board of Trade. That market and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange were founded to sell agricultural futures, but both are increasingly involved in derivatives trading. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%) Futures and Options Trading; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Derivatives (Financial Transactions)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (94%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (94%) Chicago Mercantile Exchange; Chicago Board of Trade

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (94%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (94%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (94%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



433 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: In Battleground State, Alarm Bells for Bush and G.O.P. in Poll Results 

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and MEGAN THEE; Marjorie Connelly and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The bellwether state of Ohio appears to have become hostile terrain for Republicans this year, with voters there overwhelmingly saying Democrats are more likely to help create jobs and concluding by a wide margin that Republicans in the state are more prone to political corruption than are Democrats, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 Home this year to closely watched races for governor, United States Senate and a growing roster of competitive House seats, Ohio is one of the most contested battlegrounds of 2006, and one in which voters at this point are strongly favoring Democrats on many issues.
The Democratic candidates for governor and Senate hold commanding double-digit leads over their Republican opponents in the poll, and respondents said they intended to vote for the Democratic candidate for the House in their district by 50 percent to 32 percent. 
 The results contained alarm bells for President Bush and his party across the nation three weeks from Election Day. 
 The poll found a striking slippage in the president's standing among white evangelical Christians, a constituency that has provided a strong vote cushion for Republican candidates in recent elections. In November 2004, 76 percent of white evangelical Christians in Ohio voted for Mr. Bush. When asked in this poll whether they approved or disapproved of the job Mr. Bush was doing as president, 49 percent approved while 45 percent disapproved.
 Ohio is a Republican-leaning but heavily contested state that twice voted to elect Mr. Bush and gave him his Electoral College margin of victory in 2004. But it is not a perfect microcosm of the country, and in particular has higher levels of economic anxiety, the poll found.
 Sixty-five percent of those surveyed rated the state's economy as bad; only 34 percent said it was good. In Ohio, 49 percent of respondents described the nation's economy as good, and 50 percent said it was bad. In a Times/CBS News poll conducted nationally this month, 60 percent said the economy was good, and 39 percent said it was bad. 
 A plurality, 46 percent of voters, said the economy and jobs were the most important issues facing Ohio, while 17 percent cited health care, 15 percent said terrorism and 12 percent said the war in Iraq. Seventy percent said that both Ohio and the nation were on the wrong track, a number that often spells doom for the party in power.
 More than three-quarters of Ohioans in the poll said they strongly favored a ballot measure to raise the state minimum wage to $6.85 an hour from $5.15 an hour. The ballot measure is backed by labor unions and other Democratic interests and is intended in part to draw Democratic voters to the polls on Election Day, just as measures to outlaw same-sex marriage propelled Republicans to vote in several states two years ago.
 Only a third of Ohio voters approve of the job Mr. Bush is doing as president or the way he is handling the economy, and they seem poised to take their discontent out on Republican candidates up and down the ballot. Republican officials at the national level said this week they had all but written off the Senate and governor's races in Ohio and were diverting resources to other states where they believed they had a better chance of winning.
 ''In Ohio we've seen nothing but our manufacturing jobs cease to exist,'' said one poll respondent, David Stuck, 59, of Miami Township, who said he had voted twice for Mr. Bush. Mr. Stuck, a Republican, blamed inaction at the federal level for the evaporation of jobs in Ohio and said he planned to vote for the Democratic candidate for United States Senate, Sherrod Brown, over the incumbent, Mike DeWine, a Republican.
 ''Call it a protest,'' Mr. Stuck said in a follow-up interview. ''I haven't seen anything done in the last six years. To be honest, I'm truly thinking about voting Democratic across the board because I'm tired of Bush.''
 The statewide telephone poll was conducted Wednesday through Sunday with 1,164 adults, including 1,020 registered voters. The margin of sampling error for the entire group is plus or minus three percentage points, and it is the same for the registered voters. 
 More than half of the poll's respondents said they believed corruption was widespread in Ohio and said, by a three-to-one ratio, that the Republican Party had more corrupt politicians than the Democrats. Gov. Bob Taft, a Republican, pleaded no contest last year to ethics charges arising from dealings with a crooked investment manager. Representative Bob Ney, an Ohio Republican, pleaded guilty to corruption charges last week arising from his association with Jack Abramoff, the lobbyist at the center of the influence-selling scandal in Washington. 
 Doris Stucky, a 79-year-old retired nurse from New Philadelphia, said she thought all politicians were corrupt. ''I think they're out to line their pocketbooks and get votes and they don't care what they do or say to get them,'' said Mrs. Stucky, a Republican, in a telephone interview after she participated in the poll. 
 ''They came down on Bob Ney, and I don't think he's any more guilty than the rest of them,'' she said. ''It's the same in Ohio. I think politicians are all the same. I wish we could find some good honest Christian politicians, but I don't think there are any.'' Mrs. Stucky said she was undecided about whom she would vote for.
 By large margins, Ohio voters said they trusted Democrats over Republicans to handle government spending and create new jobs.
 The sour mood in Ohio about the economy and the performance of incumbents at all levels appears to be a motivating factor for voters who identify themselves as Democrats. Fifty-five percent of Democrats said they were more enthusiastic about voting than in previous elections for Congress, while only 30 percent of Republicans said they were.
 The tide of dissatisfaction appears ready to wash out Mr. DeWine, who is trailing Mr. Brown by 34 percent to 48 percent, the poll found. The Democratic candidate for governor, Representative Ted Strickland, is leading the Republican nominee, J. Kenneth Blackwell, the Ohio secretary of state, by 53 percent to 29 percent.
 The omens in the poll were almost uniformly grim for the president and his party. Six out of 10 respondents disapprove of the way Mr. Bush is handling the economy and Iraq, and a plurality of Ohioans (by 40 percent to 36 percent) disapprove of the way he is managing the nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula. The approval rating for the Republican-led Congress is a paltry 22 percent. Among adults nationwide, 27 percent approve of the way Congress is doing its job.
 One bright spot for the president and Republicans was that while about 60 percent said they had made up their minds about this year's elections, 4 in 10 said it was too early to say how they would vote. 
 Many Democrats in Ohio still harbor resentment about the 2004 presidential contest between Mr. Bush and Senator John Kerry, which Mr. Bush officially won by about 120,000 votes out of 5.6 million cast in Ohio. Only 30 percent of Democratic poll respondents said they believed the 2004 vote count was fair and accurate, while 64 percent said it was not. (Many conspiracy-minded Democratic activists accused Mr. Blackwell, who serves as statewide supervisor of elections, of manipulating voting technology to help Mr. Bush win.) Republicans, by 89 percent to 8 percent, said the voting was fair and balanced.
 Twenty-eight percent of those polled said an adult in their household had been out of work and looking for a job in the past 12 months, and 44 percent of them said they were worried that someone in their family would be out of work in the coming year. 
 James Reed, 50, a self-described independent voter from Ashtabula, said in a follow-up interview that Mr. Taft, who is not running for re-election, ''has sold us down the road as far as jobs are concerned.'' Mr. Reed, a disabled chemical plant worker, said trade restrictions were needed to prevent American jobs from being shipped overseas, a view shared by 69 percent of Ohioans surveyed.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News poll of Ohio is based on telephone interviews conducted Oct. 11 to Oct. 15 with 1,164 adults throughout the state. Of these, 1,020 said they were registered to vote. 
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of Ohio exchanges. The exchanges were chosen so as to ensure that each area of the state was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike.
 Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, race, sex, age, education and marital status. 
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult residents of Ohio. 
 For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. Shifts in results between polls over time also have a larger sampling error. 
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for example, can lead to somewhat varying results.
 Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis.
 Complete questions and results are at nytimes.com/polls.

 Less: 33
Same: 22
No opinion: 3

REPUBLICAN
More: 30
Less: 41
Same: 26
No opinion: 3

INDEPENDENT
More: 41
Less: 36
Same: 19
No opinion: 4

DEMOCRATIC
More: 55
Less: 22
Same: 21
No opinion: 2

Which will matter more to you when you vote this November -- your state's local issues or national issues?

ALL
State issues: 45
National issues: 35
Both: 18
No opinion: 2

REBUPLICAN
State issues: 39
National issues: 43
Both: 16
No opinion: 1

INDEPENDENT
State issues: 46
National issues: 34
Both: 18
No opinion: 2

DEMOCRATIC
State issues: 49
National issues: 31
Both: 18
No opinion: 3

Regardless of how you usually vote, do you think the Republican Party or the Democratic Party is more likely to . . .

. . . make the right decisions about how the government should spend taxpayers' money?

ALL VOTERS
Republican: 30
Democrat: 47
Both: 2
Neither: 11
No opinion: 9

. . .create new jobs

ALL VOTERS
Republican: 27
Democrat: 54
Both: 3
Neither: 6
No opinion: 9

Based on statewide telephone interviews conducted Oct. 11-15 with 1,020 registered voters.

Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of both candidates in the Senate race in Ohio hit the streets on Friday in Dayton before a debate. (Photo by Al Behrman/Associated Press)Chart: ''Ohio Voters Look to the Election''Which issue will matter most to you when you decide how to vote in the race for U.S. Senate?VOTERS: ALLEconomy and jobs: 46%Health care: 17Terrorism: 15Iraq: 12Something else: 7No opinion: 3VOTERS: REPUBLICANEconomy and jobs: 43Health care: 15Terrorism: 23Iraq: 10Something else: 7No opinion: 1VOTERS: INDEPENDENTEconomy and jobs: 47Health care: 14Terrorism: 15Iraq: 11Something else: 9No opinion: 4VOTERS: DEMOCRATICEconomy and jobs: 49Health care: 21Terrorism: 8Iraq: 14Something else: 4No opinion: 3Compared with previous Congressional elections, this year are you more enthusiastic about voting or less enthusiastic?ALLMore: 42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Public Opinion; Governors (US); Elections; Christians and Christianity; Evangelical Movement

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US); House of Representatives (US); New York Times/cbs News Poll

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) John M Broder; Megan Thee; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Ohio; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



434 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Rice to Urge Radiation Inspections to Thwart North Korea

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER; Choe Sang-Hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea.

DATELINE: ELMENDORF AIR FORCE BASE, Alaska, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will urge the countries of northeast Asia to create a strict system of radiation monitoring and inspections to prevent North Korea from smuggling nuclear materials into or out of the country, a senior State Department official said Tuesday.
 But in what appears to be an effort to cajole China to enforce the new United Nations sanctions against North Korea aggressively, the United States will ask the countries to focus their efforts on conducting inspections in their own territories, including ports, and on suspicious ships, trucks and aircraft rather than every piece of cargo. 
China has been concerned about taking too harsh a stance against North Korea, and its ambassador to the United Nations has said it will not interdict ships.
 On Tuesday, a spokesman for the North Korean Foreign Ministry called the United Nations sanctions against his country a ''declaration of war.'' The tone of the statement was not atypical for the North, which often releases bellicose public announcements. 
 The United Nations resolution, issued last weekend to punish the North for its Oct. 9 nuclear bomb test, bans trade with North Korea in materials linked with unconventional weapons, and authorizes countries to inspect cargo going into and out of the North. But this last measure was diluted by China's insistence that the resolution state that countries be asked, not required, to do so. 
 What Secretary Rice will be negotiating this week with Asian countries is how they will ensure that transfers of nuclear and other material do not happen. China, which voted for the United Nations sanctions, says it is committed to putting the resolution into effect. 
 The American idea for a new security framework for North Korea, as described Tuesday by the State Department official, was intended to try to ensure that the country's suspicious cargo would be inspected in Asia, but in ways that could not be construed as a blockade.
 ''We do not envision this regime as an embargo, as a quarantine or as a blockade,'' said the official, who was accompanying Ms. Rice as she flew from Washington to Asia, with a refueling stop here in Alaska. ''It is much more selective in nature'' and aimed specifically at materials for manufacturing unconventional weapons, or building missiles to carry them, the official said.
 The United States will urge the northeast Asian countries to use radiation monitors to identify suspicious ships, trucks and aircraft and to also consider United States and Asian intelligence in figuring out which cargo to check.
 Separately, in comments to correspondents at the start of her trip for talks in Tokyo, Seoul, Beijing and Moscow, Ms. Rice stressed that efforts to end North Korea's nuclear program should be carried out in ways that do not escalate the crisis.
 Her comments could be heard as assurances to the leadership in Beijing. As worried as China may be about North Korea's decision to explode a nuclear bomb, it is equally worried that international sanctions, led by the United States, could cause its neighbor to implode, sending thousands of refugees streaming across its border.
 Ms. Rice repeated the Bush administration's official formulation that the United States has no intention or desire ''to attack or invade North Korea.'' But she also said that ''the long-suffering people of North Korea should not be forgotten by the international system.''
 She warned of dangers if other nations moved toward developing their own nuclear arsenals to counterbalance North Korea -- one reason that she said she planned to reaffirm American security commitments to Japan and South Korea.
 Officials aboard Ms. Rice's airplane gave the most detailed description to date of how the Bush administration hopes to enlist North Korea's neighbors to implement the Security Council sanctions. They described how a more stringent monitoring and inspection program might focus on the placement of radiation sensors at the land crossings along China's lengthy border with North Korea, and at airfields and ports across the region and around the world that are known to handle cargo to and from the North.
 The number of border crossings, airports and maritime ports used in trade by North Korea's feeble economy is limited. 
 Officials who described details of these initial ideas did so on condition of anonymity, under traditional ground rules for speaking in advance of diplomatic talks.
 Tuesday's statement by North Korea said the country would ''deliver merciless blows without hesitation to whoever tries to breach our sovereignty and right to survive under the excuse of carrying out the U.N. Security Council resolution.''
 Referring to the North by the initials of its official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the statement also said: ''The D.P.R.K. had remained unfazed in any storm and stress in the past when it had no nuclear weapons. It is quite nonsensical to expect the D.P.R.K. to yield to the pressure and threat of someone at this time when it has become a nuclear weapons state.''
 In Seoul, South Korea's top nuclear negotiator, Chun Yung-woo, said the statement contained ''no surprises,'' and was just ''the usual rhetoric that they have been using,'' according to Agence France-Presse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); RADIATION DETECTORS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Smuggling

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%) Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (72%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); JAPAN (50%) North Korea; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Japan; North Korea; Russia; South Korea 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



435 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Tally Narrower in Presidential Ballot in Ecuador

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
The presidential race tightened Tuesday when an official count of ballots showed a conservative banana magnate with a narrower margin over his leftist challenger, opening the race to charges of fraud and putting financial markets on edge. 
 Alvaro Noboa, one of Ecuador's wealthiest business executives, had 26.1 percent of the vote while Rafael Correa, an economist with nationalist proposals similar to those of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, had 23.3 percent, with 73.2 percent of votes counted as of 7:45 p.m.
A preliminary count of 70 percent of votes from the first election round on Sunday had given Mr. Noboa a lead of almost five percentage points over Mr. Correa.
 The narrowing of the count led to a brief sell-off of Ecuador's bonds on Tuesday, with foreign banks concerned over the possibility of a debt default if Mr. Correa were elected president. 
 Mr. Correa, a foreign-educated former economy minister, has called for greater government control over the oil industry and for the removal of the United States military from an air base in Manta, on the Pacific coast.
 The new figures still point to a runoff between the candidates on Nov. 26, as expected. 
 But tension is increasing as Mr. Correa and his supporters complain of fraud in an earlier electronic count and several technical snags and delays. Election observers from the Organization of American States called for calm after protests over the slowness in compiling returns.
 Both Mr. Noboa and Mr. Correa have campaigned as populists, though Mr. Noboa favors closer ties to the United States while Mr. Correa is critical of American political and economic influence in Ecuador.
 Mr. Noboa has stepped up attacks on Mr. Correa over his perceived ties to Mr. Chavez, trying to portray him as a Communist. Mr. Correa has criticized Ecuador's established political parties, claiming Mr. Noboa represents a corrupt economic elite. 
 The contest could signal a return to political instability in Ecuador, which has had seven presidents in the last decade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); ELECTION MONITORING (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%) Elections; Election Results

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (56%) Rafael Correa; Alvaro Noboa; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



436 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: $5.4 BILLION BID WINS COMPLEXES IN NEW YORK DEAL

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Damien Cave and Cassi Feldman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Jerry I. Speyer, who controls some of the city's most prominent landmarks, from Rockefeller Center to the Chrysler Building, yesterday signed the largest American real estate deal ever, agreeing to pay $5.4 billion for Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, a vast corridor of 110 apartment buildings along the East River.
 Mr. Speyer, the chief executive of Tishman Speyer Properties, and his partner, the BlackRock investment bank, outmaneuvered more than a half-dozen other bidders, including a group aligned with tenants who had hoped to preserve the two adjoining complexes on First Avenue between 14th and 23rd Streets as enclaves of middle-class housing.
But these are not typical real estate trophies. Built by Metropolitan Life for returning veterans in 1947, with the help of tax breaks and the government's powers of eminent domain, Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village have served as an affordable redoubt for generations of police officers, teachers, nurses and other middle-class New Yorkers. 
 The unremarkable brick buildings, with 25,000 people living in 11,232 units, are nestled among trees and fountains on 80 acres of some of the most valuable real estate in the world. 
 With rents and housing prices soaring in recent years, the pending sale turned the issue of affordable housing into a cause celebre among New York politicians, including members of Congress, state legislators and City Council members. And the tenants feared that a new owner would transform the complexes into a luxury enclave.
 But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg stayed on the sidelines, and MetLife was intent on selling for the highest possible price. At $4.5 billion, the tenant offer lagged behind bids from some of the biggest names in real estate, from Apollo Real Estate Advisors in a joint offer with the Dermot Company, to the Related Companies with Lehman Brothers; the Millstein brothers; and Vornado Realty Trust.
 An elated Mr. Speyer appeared well aware of the complexes' place in the city's culture and the political sensitivity of the sale.
 ''As a business with deep roots in New York City, we have a sincere appreciation for these cherished neighborhoods, and we are honored to become stewards of the property,'' Mr. Speyer said. ''We are committed to working closely with residents, elected officials and community leaders to ensure a dynamic and vibrant future for this New York community.''
 His son, Rob Speyer, a senior managing director at Tishman Speyer, also tried to reassure tenants, emphasizing, ''There will be no sudden or dramatic shifts in the community's makeup, character or charm.'' But he would not commit to preserving a large block of apartments as affordable housing, which the tenant group had sought. 
 MetLife said that the Speyers and BlackRock, a New York-based firm that is a major national real estate investor, would be ''fine stewards of the property in the years to come.'' Although Tishman Speyer is best known in New York for its commercial buildings, rather than residential development, the company has built housing in France, Germany, Brazil and soon, India. It built an apartment house in the late 1990's on the Upper West Side and has another residential project in San Francisco.
 Tishman Speyer and BlackRock were among about eight companies invited to make final bids for the complexes on Monday afternoon. Apollo, the No. 2 bidder, came in at $5.33 billion. MetLife and its broker, Darcy Stacom of CB Richard Ellis, negotiated with Rob Speyer into the early-morning hours, then signed a contract at 10 a.m. yesterday. They plan to complete the deal in a month -- three times faster than most buyers close on a single house.
 MetLife executives were not unfamiliar with the Speyers. Last year, his company bought the insurer's 58-story skyscraper at 200 Park Avenue, at 45th Street, for $1.72 billion. ''Clearly, Tishman Speyer has a proven track record with MetLife,'' said Scott Rechler, chairman of Reckson Associates, who lost out in the bidding on that deal, despite a slightly higher offer.
 Michael McKee, treasurer of the Tenants Political Action Committee, called the sale a ''dark day for affordable housing.''
 Many of the two complexes' residents fear that their homes are destined to become luxury housing. Nearly three quarters of the apartments have regulated rents at roughly half the market rate. In recent years, MetLife has dislodged illegal sublettors and tenants whose units were not their primary residence.
 Rent-regulated tenants cannot be forced out. Under the rent laws, however, an apartment can be ''decontrolled'' -- and rented at the market rate -- after it becomes vacant and the rent reaches $2,000 a month. The same can happen if the rent rises to $2,000 a month and the current tenant's household income rises above $175,000 for two successive years. MetLife says that rents for 27 percent of the apartments are now at market rates. The company has suggested that another 1,800 units will be decontrolled over the next two years.
 Nanette Ross, 45, recalled moving into Stuyvesant Town more than 20 years ago and thinking, ''I'm in heaven,'' even without air conditioning or a dishwasher. ''The future for the lives of 25,000 people is at stake,'' said Ms. Ross, who has two children and owns a pop art gallery with her husband, Jeff. ''I find it very hard to believe that someone who would come up with $5 billion to buy a property like this wouldn't be trying to make money, and the only way to make money on a property like this is to turn it into luxury housing.''
 Daniel R. Garodnick, a city councilman who lives in Peter Cooper and helped organize the tenant offer, expressed disappointment that a symbol of middle class housing would be lost: ''Eventually, I think what you will see is a market-rate, gated community, which is what MetLife was pitching to all the potential bidders.''
 The tenant bid was intended to preserve about 20 percent of the apartments for middle-income families who rent and another 20 percent for residents who want to buy. Most of the remaining apartments, under that plan, would have been sold at market rates. In an attempt to bolster their offer, the tenants had sought tax breaks and exemptions from the Bloomberg administration.
 But the mayor took a hands-off approach, saying, ''MetLife owns it, and they have a right to sell it.''
 Many tenant activists and urban planners criticized him for that.
 ''Stuyvesant Town was a national model for middle class people in an urban setting,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. ''It wouldn't have happened without eminent domain and favored tax treatment. It's disingenuous to say there's no public interest in what happens to this housing.''
 Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said it was a matter of the best use of scarce resources. He said it would have cost the city nearly $500 million to provide the tax incentives the tenants' wanted. For the same money, nearly $107,000 per unit, the city could build a new middle-income apartment, and possibly, preserve another affordable unit elsewhere.
 Indeed, the city was expected to announce a deal tomorrow with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to build low- and moderate-income housing at Queens West, a waterfront development in Hunters Point, according to a Port Authority executive.
 Born in Lower Manhattan nearly 140 years ago, MetLife was once a major force in the city's economic and civic life. In the 1940's, the company built thousands of apartments in a city hungry for housing, including Parkchester in the Bronx, Riverton in Harlem and Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, on the rubble of the old Gashouse District.
 In return for the government help, MetLife agreed to limit its profit to 6 percent a year for 25 years and maintain below-market rents. The company barred blacks from living in Stuyvesant Town for many years, and its president at the time, Frederick H. Ecker, once said, ''Negroes and whites do not mix.'' 
 MetLife has been a shrinking presence in New York since the 1960's, when the company counted 17,000 employees here. There are fewer than 2,500 employees today. In recent years, the insurer sold its three major buildings in Manhattan for $3.3 billion, including its landmark 50-story clock tower and two towered headquarters on Madison Avenue.
 After announcing the auction of these complexes earlier this year, MetLife executives insisted they had long ago met any obligation to preserve middle class housing.
 ''I knew they wouldn't give it to us,'' said Arthur Kellebrew, 44, who grew up in Stuyvesant Town and now has a family of his own. ''It seems like now all they want is money. It affects the whole city, because middle class housing -- you can't find it any more.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village have long been seen as places that the middle class could afford. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MAYORS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%) Housing; Stuyvesant Town (NYC); Peter Cooper Village (NYC); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements; Renting and Leasing; Housing; Rent Control and Stabilization; Company and Organization Profiles; Housing

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (64%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Tishman Speyer Properties; Blackrock Investments; Metropolitan Life Insurance Co

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Jerry I Speyer; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



437 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: An Indian Company Wants to Be Everywhere

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS and SARITHA RAI; Anand Giridharadas reported from Mumbai, and Saritha Rai from Bangalore. Heather Timmons contributed reporting from London.

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Across much of the world, India is still thought of as a land of elephants and maharajahs. But one day, it might be known for Tata.
 You may never have heard of the Tata Group, but there is a good chance you have sipped a Tata drink, slipped on Tata shoes, or slept in a Tata hotel in New York, London or Sydney. When you last checked e-mail messages, telephoned Beijing or used the Internet phone service Skype, Tata's 60,000 kilometers, or 37,000 miles, of deep-sea cables may have connected you.
Now, one of the group companies, Tata Steel, is putting the brand name on the world map with a bid to acquire a company seven times its size, the Corus Group of Britain. 
 Corus said Tuesday that it had received a bid for $:4.1 billion ($7.6 billion), or 455 pence a share, valuing Corus at $10.2 billion, including debt. 
 A deal would create the world's sixth-largest steel company. The combination could further accelerate deal making in an industry that is merging fast in order to keep up with the largest player, the newly created Arcelor Mittal.
 India appears to be emerging as not just a place for companies to outsource, but also a place for entrepreneurs to build multinational companies. The model for Tata, as it spreads internationally, is not Mittal Steel or Infosys, two other giant Indian companies. Its model is the diversified conglomerate General Electric. 
 It may be difficult for Tata to achieve that grand scale. Tata's market value, at $47 billion, is equivalent to G.E.'s value back in 1992, but only an eighth of G.E.'s value today. 
 Still, Tata is quietly shopping the world. It spent $1.5 billion on foreign acquisitions last year. It is the largest seller of whole-bean coffee in the United States, with its Eight O'Clock Coffee brand, which it acquired in June. With Tetley of Britain, which it acquired in 2000, it is the world's second-largest brand of tea, behind Lipton. In August, it bought 30 percent of Glaceau, a United States maker of bottled water containing nutrients.
 Tata is also on a quest to spread its Taj hotel chain, recently paying $170 million for the Ritz-Carlton in Boston. It already owned the W Sydney hotel, and the Pierre in New York.
 ''We are not globalizing to go out there and teach, that's for sure,'' R. Gopalakrishnan, a Tata executive director, said in an interview in his Mumbai office. ''We're globalizing because we think the learning of that acquired company and our learning together add up to three.'' 
 Critics of Tata's globalization spree say the group has tended to overpay for foreign acquisitions, partly on the belief it can cut costs from the operations. Analysts have said Tata's beverage arm has taken on a heavy debt load; now Tata Steel, nearly debt free, will have to assume debt to buy Corus, putting pressure on its status as one of the world's most cost-efficient producers.
 At home, Tata still focuses much of its marketing and product design on low-income consumers. ''We want the brand name to be international and, at the same time, at the bottom end of the economic pyramid,'' Ratan N. Tata, the group's chairman, said in an interview in 2004. 
 Tata's success comes in part from treading lightly in overseas markets. It benefits from an image as the un-multinational -- a company that goes to places like South Africa and Bangladesh saying that it wants to learn rather than teach or merely seize market share. 
 Though Tata has been around for more than a century, it was a sleepy family enterprise for generations. It was only recently, after Mr. Tata took over in 1991, that the company's renaissance began. He injected discipline into the group, threatening to sell underperforming divisions and mandating greater coordination among the units. He also built up the largest Asian software company, Tata Consultancy Services.
 Alan Rosling, a Tata executive director who advises group companies on international expansion, said the company's greatest challenge was to evolve beyond its reliance on India's low-cost base by developing innovative products. ''In 30 years' time, we'll be a big company on a world scale,'' he said. ''But we're not there yet, and we have a long way to go.''
 The Tata Group, though, has cultivated a kinder, gentler side, possibly the result of sprouting in the middle of a country that is still overwhelmingly destitute. The family's holding company, Tata Sons, is owned by charities, with two-thirds of its profit going to philanthropy. 
 ''We're making money,'' Mr. Rosling said, ''in order to give it away.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about the Tata Group, the Indian conglomerate that planned to acquire a steel company, the Corus Group, misstated the headquarters of another steel producer, Mittal, before it merged with Arcelor. It was based in London and Rotterdam, not India. (Arcelor Mittal is based in Luxembourg.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tata Steel, part of the larger Tata Group, has bid $:4.1 billion ($7.6 billion) to acquire the Corus Group of Britain. Corus makes coiled steel rolls in Scunthorpe, north Lincolnshire, shown above. (Photo by Graham Barclay/Bloomberg News)
 Ratan N. Tata, chairman of the Tata Group, said in an interview in 2004 that he wanted the brand name to be international. (Photo by Punit Paranjpe/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ACQUISITIONS (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); OUTSOURCING (78%); BOTTLED WATER (77%); TEA (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); DIVESTITURES (70%); COFFEE (69%); BOTTLED WATER MFG (50%) Steel and Iron; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: TATA GROUP (92%); SKYPE SARL (83%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (82%); TATA STEEL EUROPE (71%); TATA STEEL LTD (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); INFOSYS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Tata Group; Corus Group Plc

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (82%); MT (PAR) (82%); MT (NYSE) (82%); MT (AMS) (82%); TTST (LSE) (57%); TATASTEEL (NSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); INFY (PAR) (54%); INFY (NYSE) (54%); INFY (NSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (82%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (71%); NAICS331210 IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED STEEL (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: RATAN TATA (79%) Anand Giridharadas; Saritha Rai; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%) India

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



438 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Chicago Exchanges to Merge
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade plan to merge in an $8 billion deal that would create the world's largest market for financial derivatives contracts. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Blair Critical of Islamic Veils 

Prime Minister Tony Blair called Muslims' full-face veils a ''mark of separation,'' a remark reflecting fissures in British society. PAGE A3

Murder Verdicts in D.W.I.
A man who crashed into a wedding limousine, killing the driver and a 7-year-old girl while driving drunk in the wrong direction, was convicted of two counts of murder. PAGE B1

Ohio Poll Favors Democrats
Ohio voters say that Democrats are more likely to help create jobs and that Ohio Republicans are more prone to corruption, in a New York Times/CBS News poll. PAGE A16

Cardinals Push Mets to Brink
St. Louis beat the Mets, 4-2, to take a lead of three games to two in the National League Championship Series. Game 6 of the best-of-seven series is tonight in Queens. SPORTSWEDNESDAY, PAGE D1

Plain or Fancy
Now playing in Chicago: Shakespeare plain (a traditional ''Hamlet'') or with raunchy garnish (a blistering ''Lear''). Reviews by Charles Isherwood. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

GRAPHIC: Chart: The top issue for Ohio voters when they decide how to vote in the race for Senate.ECONOMY OR JOBS: 46%HEALTH CARE: 17TERRORISM: 15IRAQ: 12OTHER: 7(Source by The New York Times/CBS News Poll)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); VERDICTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); MURDER (56%); JOB CREATION (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK METS (83%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006



439 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2030 words

HEADLINE: A Virtual World but Real Money 

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
It has a population of a million. The ''people'' there make friends, build homes and run businesses. They also play sports, watch movies and do a lot of other familiar things. They even have their own currency, convertible into American dollars. 
 But residents also fly around, walk underwater and make themselves look beautiful, or like furry animals, dragons, or practically anything -- or anyone -- they wish.
This parallel universe, an online service called Second Life that allows computer users to create a new and improved digital version of themselves, began in 1999 as a kind of online video game.
 But now, the budding fake world is not only attracting a lot more people, it is taking on a real world twist: big business interests are intruding on digital utopia. The Second Life online service is fast becoming a three-dimensional test bed for corporate marketers, including Sony BMG Music Entertainment, Sun Microsystems, Nissan, Adidas/Reebok, Toyota and Starwood Hotels. 
 The sudden rush of real companies into so-called virtual worlds mirrors the evolution of the Internet itself, which moved beyond an educational and research network in the 1990's to become a commercial proposition -- but not without complaints from some quarters that the medium's purity would be lost. 
 Already, the Internet is the fastest-growing advertising medium, as traditional forms of marketing like television commercials and print advertising slow. For businesses, these early forays into virtual worlds could be the next frontier in the blurring of advertising and entertainment. 
 Unlike other popular online video games like World of Warcraft that are competitive fantasy games, these sites meld elements of the most popular forms of new media: chat rooms, video games, online stores, user-generated content sites like YouTube.com and social networking sites like MySpace.com. 
 Philip Rosedale, the chief executive of Linden Labs, the San Francisco company that operates Second Life, said that until a few months ago only one or two real world companies had dipped their toes in the synthetic water. Now, more than 30 companies are working on projects there, and dozens more are considering them. ''It's taken off in a way that is kind of surreal,'' Mr. Rosedale said, with no trace of irony.
 Beginning a promotional venture in a virtual world is still a relatively inexpensive proposition compared with the millions spent on other media. In Second Life, a company like Nissan or its advertising agency could buy an ''island'' for a one-time fee of $1,250 and a monthly rate of $195 a month. For its new campaign built around its Sentra car, the company then needed to hire some computer programmers to create a gigantic driving course and design digital cars that people ''in world'' could actually drive, as well as some billboards and other promotional spots throughout the virtual world that would encourage people to visit Nissan Island. 
 Virtual world proponents -- including a roster of Linden Labs investors that includes Jeffrey P. Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com; Mitchell D. Kapor, the software pioneer; and Pierre Omidyar, the eBay co-founder -- say that the entire Internet is moving toward being a three-dimensional experience that will become more realistic as computing technology advances. 
 Entering Second Life, people's digital alter-egos -- known as avatars -- are able to move around and do everything they do in the physical world, but without such bothers as the laws of physics. ''When you are at Amazon.com you are actually there with 10,000 concurrent other people, but you cannot see them or talk to them,'' Mr. Rosedale said. ''At Second Life, everything you experience is inherently experienced with others.''
 Second Life is the largest and best known of several virtual worlds created to attract a crowd. The cable TV network MTV, for example, just began Virtual Laguna Beach, where fans of its show, ''Laguna Beach: The Real O.C.,'' can fashion themselves after the show's characters and hang out in their faux settings.
 Unlike Second Life, which emphasizes a hands-off approach and has little say over who sets up shop inside its simulated world, MTV's approach is to bring in advertisers as partners. 
 In Second Life, retailers like Reebok, Nike, Amazon and American Apparel have all set up shops to sell digital as well as real world versions of their products. Last week, Sun Microsystems unveiled a new pavilion promoting its products, and I.B.M. alumni held a virtual world reunion.
 This week, the performer Ben Folds is to promote a new album with two virtual appearances. At one, he will play the opening party for Aloft, an elaborate digital prototype for a new chain of hotels planned by Starwood Hotels and Resorts. The same day, Mr. Folds will also ''appear'' at a new facility his music label's parent company, Sony BMG, is opening at a complex called Media Island. 
 Meanwhile, Nissan is introducing its Nissan promotion, featuring a gigantic vending machine dispensing cars people can ''drive'' around. 
 And some of this is likely to be covered for the outside world by such business news outlets as CNet and Reuters, which now have reporters embedded full-time in the virtual realm.
 All this attention has some Second Lifers concerned that their digital paradise will never be the same, like a Wal-Mart coming to town or a Starbucks opening in the neighborhood. ''The phase it is in now is just using it as a hype and marketing thing,'' said Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, 50, a member of Second Life who in the real world is a Russian translator in Manhattan.
 In her second life, Ms. Fitzpatrick's digital alter-ego is a figure well-known to other participants called Prokofy Neva, who runs a business renting ''real estate'' to other players. ''The next phase,'' she said, ''will be they try to compete with other domestic products -- the people who made sneakers in the world are now in danger of being crushed by Adidas.''
 Mr. Rosedale says such concerns are overstated, because there are no advantages from economies of scale for big corporations in Second Life, and people can avoid places like Nissan Island as easily as they can avoid going to Nissan's Web site. There is no limit to what can be built in Second Life, just as there is no limit to how many Web sites populate the Internet. 
 Linden Labs makes most of its money leasing ''land'' to tenants, Mr. Rosedale said, at an average of roughly $20 per month per ''acre'' or $195 a month for a private ''island.'' The land mass of Second Life is growing about 8 percent a month, a spokeswoman said, and now totals ''60,000 acres,'' the equivalent of about 95 square miles in the physical world. Linden Labs, a private company, does not disclose its revenue.
 Despite the surge of outside business activity in Second Life, Linden Labs said corporate interests still owned less than 5 percent of the virtual world's real estate.
 As many as 10,000 people are in the virtual world at a time, and they are engaged in a gamut of ventures: everything from holding charity fund-raisers to selling virtual helicopters to operating sex clubs. Linden also makes money on exchanging United States dollars for what it calls Linden dollars for around 400 Linden dollars for $1 (people can load up on them with a credit card). A typical article of clothing -- say a shirt -- would cost around 200 Linden dollars, or 50 cents. As evidence of the growth of its ''economy,'' Second Life's Web site tracks how much money changes hands each day. It recently reached as much as $500,000 a day and is growing as much as 15 percent a month. 
 On Tuesday, a Congressional committee said it was investigating whether virtual assets and incomes should be taxed. 
 But many inhabitants simply hang out for free. For advertisers worried about the effectiveness of the 30-second TV spot and the clutter of real world billboards and Internet pop-up ads, Second Life is appealing because it is a place where people literally immerse themselves in their products. 
 Steve F. Kerho, director of interactive marketing and media for Nissan USA, said the Second Life campaign was part of a growing interest in online video games. ''We're just trying to follow our consumer, that's where they're spending their time,'' Mr. Kerho said. ''But there has to be something in it for them -- it's got to be fun; it's got to be playful.''
 Projects like the Aloft hotel, an offshoot of Starwood's W Hotels brand, are designed to promote the venture but also to give its designers feedback from prospective guests before the first real hotel opens in 2008.
 The new Sony BMG building has rooms devoted to popular musicians like Justin Timberlake and DMX, allowing fans to mingle, listen to tunes or watch videos. Sony BMG is also toying with renting residences in the complex, as well as selling music downloads that people can listen to throughout the simulated world. 
 Sibley Verbeck, chief executive of the Electric Sheep Company, a consultancy that designed the Aloft and Sony BMG projects, said the flurry of corporate interest stemmed from the 10 to 20 percent growth in the number of people who had gone into virtual worlds each month for the last three years. Though exact numbers are difficult to come by, the figure should top a few million by next year, he said. 
 The spread of these worlds, however, is limited by access to high-speed Internet connections and, in Second Life's case, software that is challenging to master and only runs on certain models of computers.
 ''If it doesn't crash and burn then it will become real,'' he said. ''So now's the time to start experimenting and learning ahead of your competition.'' 
 As part of that process, businesses are learning that different rules apply when they venture into an arena where audiences are in control. ''Users are the content -- that's the thing that everybody has a hard time getting over,'' said Michael Wilson, the chief executive of Makena Technologies, which operates the virtual world There.com and helped build Virtual Laguna Beach. 
 For example, Sun Microsystems kicked off the opening of its Second Life venue with a press conference online hosted by executives and Mr. Rosedale of Linden Labs. But by the time the event was in full swing, several members of the audience had either walked or flown onto the stage, where they were running roughshod over the proceedings.
 Even Mr. Rosedale got in on the act: he conjured a pair of sunglasses that he superimposed on a video image of a Sun representative talking on a screen behind the stage. (In virtual world lingo, such high jinks are known as ''griefing.'')
 Some corporate events have been met with protests by placard-waving avatars. And there is even a group called the Second Life Liberation Army that has staged faux ''attacks'' on Reebok and American Apparel stores. (The S.L.L.A. says it is fighting for voting rights for avatars -- as well as stock in Linden Labs.)
 Companies in this new environment have to get used to the idea that they may never know exactly who they are dealing with. Most of those in Second Life have chosen their names from a whimsical menu of supplied surnames, resulting in monikers like Snoopybrown Zamboni and Bitmason Pimpernel; males posing as female avatars and vice versa are not uncommon.
 Another issue companies have to contend with is that their brands may already be in these virtual worlds, but illegally. Henry Jenkins, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Lab, said one Second Life habitue created a virtual reproduction of the Ikea catalog to help people decorate their digital pads. 
 Mr. Verbeck of Electric Sheep said copyright infringement was rampant. His company runs an online boutique where Second Life residents sell each other pixelized creations of everything from body parts to home furnishings to roller skates -- many of them unauthorized knockoffs. 
 So far, the boutique has not had many requests to stop selling fake products. But ''we did have a request from the Salvador Dali Museum -- which was great,'' Mr. Verbeck said. ''Second Life is so surreal that it was perfect.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 21, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about the commercial prospects of three-dimensional Web sites misstated the position of Pierre Omidyar, an investor in Linden Labs, a company that has started such a venture. He is the founder of eBay, not a co-founder.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip Rosedale, the chief executive of Linden Labs, the San Francisco company that operates Second Life. More than 30 companies are working on projects on Second Life, and dozens more are considering them. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)
Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, 50, a member of Second Life who in the real world is a Russian translator in Manhattan. Her digital alter-ego is Prokofy Neva, who runs a business renting ''real estate'' to other players. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 Screen grabs from the Second Life universe, which is fast becoming a three-dimensional test bed for corporate marketers, including Sony BMG Music Entertainment, Sun Microsystems, Nissan, Adidas/Reebok, Toyota and Starwood Hotels. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); VIRTUAL REALITY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (88%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (76%); CHAT ROOMS (76%); RESORTS (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); PRINT ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%) Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Three-Dimensional Devices; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: MYSPACE INC (81%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (69%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Second Life; Sony Bmg Music Entertainment; Sun Microsystems Inc; Nissan Motor Co; Adidas-Salomon Ag; Toyota Motor Corp; Reebok International Ltd; Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc; Linden Labs 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (81%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (69%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (69%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: Richard Siklos; Philip Rosedale

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



440 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Lower Energy Prices Help Consumer Price Index Decline 0.5%

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Rapidly falling energy prices helped push consumer prices down sharply last month, the government reported yesterday.
 But the decline did not entirely dispel inflation worries because the measure of retail prices that excludes volatile food and energy costs held steady at a level above the Federal Reserve's comfort zone.
Wall Street -- already energized by stronger-than-expected profits from I.B.M. and Intel and construction data that showed a steep drop in building permits -- saw the latest evidence as an encouraging sign that the Fed will keep interest rates unchanged for now. The central bank's policy setting committee will meet next week to review short-term lending rates, currently at 5.25 percent. 
 Stocks surged at the start of trading yesterday and the Dow Jones industrial average leapt past 12,000 for the first time. The exuberance was short-lived, however. The blue-chip index retreated later in the morning, ending the day up 42.66 points, at 11,992.68.
 The federal government also announced that Social Security payments, which are based on changes in the Consumer Price Index over the previous 12 months, will increase 3.3 percent in 2007. 
 For the 53 million Americans that receive Social Security checks, that will raise the average monthly payment by $33, the Social Security Administration said. 
 While overall consumer prices fell last month by 0.5 percent, the core Consumer Price Index, which excludes food and energy, rose by 0.2 percent. It was the third consecutive month that the core index grew by 0.2 percent and an indication to many economists that underlying inflation may be peaking.
 With core prices up 2.9 percent compared with last September, well above the 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent level that central bankers consider ideal, the economists cautioned that it is still not clear whether the Fed will have more tightening to do next year.
 ''The fundamentals for inflation still look mildly unfriendly,'' said Ethan Harris, chief United States economist for Lehman Brothers. ''When people talk about inflation turning, they're forgetting about the lags. Inflation doesn't turn with the economy. It usually takes a couple of quarters.''
 As the economy continues to slow, the Federal Reserve's forecast is that inflation will slow as well. The central bank has said that slower growth, led by a decline in the housing market, will help pull inflation back down to tolerable levels. 
 Indeed, a report from the Commerce Department showed yesterday that building permits fell by 6.3 percent in September, to the lowest rate since October 2001.
 The number of housing starts last month increased 5.9 percent.
 The rise in new home construction did surprise economists, but it is not likely to foreshadow any immediate bounce-back in residential construction. Construction activity is often volatile for a number of reasons, particularly the weather.
 Building permits, therefore, are considered to be a better barometer of the strength of the housing industry because they measure how much demand builders are expecting.
 ''Even a cursory glance at the awful permits numbers should disabuse all but the most incurable optimists'' of the notion that the new housing market will improve soon, Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist with High Frequency Economics, wrote in a research report.
 In another sign that investors do not believe the Fed will raise rates any further, interest rates on long-term bonds fell yesterday for the third consecutive day. And that view was echoed by several Wall Street analysts. 
 ''The surge in core inflation is abating,'' a team of economists from Goldman Sachs wrote in a research report.
 As long as future inflation readings do not look any worse than yesterday's report, and economic growth continues to slow at a moderate pace, the Fed can afford to wait for the effects of two years of interest rate increases to take hold. 
 Most economists believe that when the Fed gathers next week, it will leave interest rates untouched for the third time in a row.
 ''From the Fed's point of view, slower growth opens up a little bit of a gap,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial.
 The Labor Department report showed that on a seasonally adjusted basis, consumer prices rose at slower rates in September on a number of goods and services like clothing, food and household furnishings. 
 The price of transportation, including gasoline and vehicle purchases, was the only major category of the price index that actually declined in September.
 High rental costs kept the core price index elevated in September. Compared with September a year ago, housing prices, which are tied to a measure of rents rather than what homes are actually selling for, rose 4.1 percent, faster than any other component of the index except medical care.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said that the average weekly earnings for ordinary workers, adjusted for inflation, rose by 1 percent in September. Average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stocks started on a surge at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, briefly sending the Dow above 12,000. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%) United States Economy; Housing; Interest Rates; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Social Security (US); United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing Starts

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Federal Reserve System; Labor Department (US); Social Security Administration; Commerce Department

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



441 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; ROOM TO IMPROVE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words

BYLINE: By Mitchell Owens

 BODY:

Q. Do you have any ideas for heating or cooling a loft?

A. I recently stumbled across an innovative -- and visually mesmerizing -- solution for keeping a loft or other high-ceilinged dwelling seasonally warm and cool.
 I was meeting with David Bergman, the founder of Bergworks (www.cyberg.com, 212-475-3106), a New York architecture and design firm, to see an apartment he designed. Extensively renovated, it was a studio space packed with ''green'' materials that I was meant to be admiring: kitchen counters of recycled glass, cabinets sheathed in engineered wood veneer, lights of partially recycled resin. 
But my eyes were drawn upward, to a curious object hanging from the ceiling. Attached to a narrow aluminum track that bisected the living space was a yards-long panel of limp, dull-gray material that looked like a deflated tube perforated with rows of pencil-thick holes. One end was connected to a large opening at the end of the room, while the end closest to the windows was sealed shut.
 At first I thought it might be a some kind of European sculpture -- it did have a certain Germanic edginess. But Mr. Bergman, who teaches sustainable design at the Parsons School of Design, explained that it was a fabric ''air dispersion system'' manufactured by DuctSox, a company in Dubuque, Iowa. Typically used in the open ceilings of commercial, industrial and retail spaces as an alternative to standard exposed metal ducts, the DuctSox system inflates when the ventilation system is turned on. (There is also a model with a structure that gives the fabric the appearance of being inflated even when the system is off.)
 According to the company's Web site, the system discharges air through a combination of porous fabrics, orifices and vents. 
 Several suspension systems and seven fabric options are available, including Sedona-XM, a permeable material treated with antimicrobial agents. It comes in three silhouettes (cylinder, half-round and panel) and multiple dimensions and colors, including red, blue and yellow. The fabric can easily be removed from its tracks and laundered, folded and stored. But why store it when you can leave it in place and enjoy the balloon-like changes of shape?
 Prices vary depending on the options. A company representative said a 12-foot DuctSox made of economy-grade fabric and mounted on a cable system would run about $185, not including installation, which takes about three hours. Information: (866) 563-7729 or ductsox.com.

Q. Is there a good way to visually pull together mismatched wood-veneer furniture?

A. Paint it black. Dorothy Draper, the great decorator of the 1930's and 1940's, loved black furniture. The color, she felt, made almost any questionable chair, table or chest of drawers simply disappear. Black is also chic.
 After removing hardware from the furniture to be painted, lightly sand its surface with superfine sandpaper or steel wool to give the paint something to grip. Then use whatever kind of paint you like, or a black or ebony stain.
 I'm partial to spray paint, because I'm a bit lazy. More patient people might be comfortable applying several coats of matte- or satin-finish enamel, which holds up to hard knocks fairly well and can be touched up easily. Gloss paint may not be ideal, because it tends to enhance every underlying flaw, and the shiny surface draws attention, a drawback if you are working with a large piece of furniture.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GREEN BUILDING (76%); SCULPTURE (76%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (70%) Heating; Air Conditioning; Interior Design; Furniture; Paints and Painting

PERSON: Mitchell Owens

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); IOWA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



442 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: An Ethnic War Slows Tsunami Recovery in Sri Lanka

BYLINE: By SHIMALI SENANAYAKE

DATELINE: COLOMBO, Sri Lanka, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
Almost two years after a tsunami ravaged villages along the coast, a resurrection of intense violence in Sri Lanka's long-running ethnic war has all but stopped foreign-financed reconstruction in some of the hardest hit areas in the north and east.
 Several international agencies say they have had to abandon projects because of the recent fighting, the worst since 2002, when a cease-fire brought a lull in conflict between the government and the separatist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. 
Only slightly more than a third of the houses that were supposed to be rebuilt have been finished in the north and east, according to the governmental Reconstruction and Development Agency. By contrast, in the south, where it has historically been much safer, about 80 percent of the planned houses are completed. 
 Part of the reason is that aid agencies face a battery of new restrictions on where they can go, and what kind of building materials they can transport across government and rebel lines. Contractors have refused to work on some sites because of constant shelling. The cost of materials has risen sharply. 
 Attacks on aid workers, most notably the killings in August of 17 staff members of Action Against Hunger, have further persuaded aid agencies to pull back.
 ''All major construction work in the north and east is at a standstill due to the inability to get in staff and building material,'' said Andrew Lanyon, operations director of World Vision International, which has 30 projects in the north and east. ''Our economic, health and student programs are also at a complete halt.''
 The tsunami struck on Dec. 26, 2004, killing an estimated 32,000 people in this country and injuring or displacing a million more in rebel- and government-controlled territory. But in its wake came hopes of reconciliation and pledges of $2.5 billion for relief and reconstruction. 
 But the new fighting has brought a new humanitarian crisis, donors say, siphoning money away from other reconstruction efforts. For example, the United Nations Office for Project Services said, staff members who originally were contracted to rebuild schools destroyed by the tsunami have been redirected to build toilets for people displaced by the fighting.
 ''Significant investments in reconstruction, so generously supported by donors around the world, are now imperiled,'' said Eric Schwartz, deputy to the United Nations special envoy, former President Bill Clinton.
 Since August, when the fighting intensified, no construction materials, including fuel, have been allowed across the line between government- and rebel-controlled territory. The government says it fears that rebels will take away the materials to build and fortify their bunkers.
 Besides, the only land route that links Jaffna, the main northern city, where the fighting has been most intense, to the rest of the country runs through rebel territory and has been mostly closed for two months.
 World Concern, a Seattle-based Christian aid organization, has abandoned plans to expand its operations into rebel-controlled areas. Projects are delayed. In September, one of its staff members was shot dead while returning to work after lunch.
 ''Since then, things are in hiatus,'' said Kathleen Rutledge, the agency's manager in Sri Lanka. ''We are keeping a very low profile.''
 If things do not change soon, she said, the agency will be forced to decide whether to remain in the country. ''Our staff safety is becoming impossible to predict,'' she said, ''and if it comes to a point we can't assist the beneficiaries because of the fighting, then what can our presence here do?''
 The biggest blow came in August when the bodies of 17 staff members of Action Against Hunger were found in their office in eastern Muttur, shot execution-style. Since the killings, Emergency Architects, a French agency that rebuilds houses, has suspended operations. The agency also lost three staff members in shelling.
 ''Our headquarters agreed it was too dangerous for us to continue,'' said Robbie Dodds, who helps run the group's mission in Sri Lanka. The agency has abandoned plans to build a school and an ice factory. ''The plan at the moment is to finish what we started, step back and re-evaluate.''
 The latest fighting has prompted victims of the tsunami to flee their homes once more. It has also hit reconstruction sites.
 In Muttur, at least 12 houses built by World Vision for families displaced by the tsunami were punctured with bullets and had their windows blown out. Roofs also collapsed in fishing cabins completed under a livelihood project by Emergency Architects. Only three security guards remain at another partly completed housing site, to avoid the theft of lumber and steel. 
 Aid groups cautioned that donors were growing frustrated. Keeping agency offices open even when they can do little to no work is a drain on precious financing, said Rainer Frauenfeld, country director of the United Nations Office for Project Services. 
 ''We don't know which way the pendulum will swing,'' said Patrick Fuller, spokesman for the International Federation of the Red Cross. ''But what is clear is that tsunami reconstruction is going to take much longer than anticipated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (68%) Earthquakes; Tsunamis and Tidal Waves; Foreign Aid; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare ; Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (83%); ACTION AGAINST HUNGER (55%); WORLD VISION INTERNATIONAL (54%) Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (51%) Shimali Senanayake

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) SRI LANKA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



443 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Pombo's Map

 BODY:
When you add up the energy resources of the American West, one of the biggest items in the ledger is oil shale -- rock formations containing deposits that can be distilled, by heating, into oil. The estimate of the petroleum locked up in these deposits is enormous: perhaps 800 billion barrels of recoverable oil, most of it in the Green River Formation, which lies beneath Colorado, Wyoming and Utah. 
 The processes for extracting oil shale are still hugely expensive -- which is fortunate, because the potential environmental costs are staggering. You can pump oil from oil shale by heating the underground formations, with untold effect on groundwater. Or you can dig it all up, cart it away and heat it somewhere else, scarring vast tracts of the West.
 None of this has stopped Congressman Richard Pombo of California -- champion of the idea that we can drill our way to energy independence -- from throwing yet another economic bone to the energy sector. In a little-noticed provision of the much-reviled Deep Ocean Energy Resources Act -- which the House passed in June and the Senate will take up when Congress returns -- Mr. Pombo lowered the royalty rate for oil shale from 12.5 percent to 1 percent. Should the day arrive when the price of shale oil becomes competitive, this could turn out to be an extraordinary giveaway of federal revenue (most oil shale lies under federal land) and a huge incentive to wreak environmental damage. 
 None of this is surprising. Mr. Pombo, who is chairman of the House Resources Committee and is facing a tight race for re-election, has been well-financed by oil and gas producers. He has done his best to give away public resources and throw away prudent restraints on energy exploration. 
 We believe that this country must pursue energy independence. But unlike Mr. Pombo, we believe that there is a vibrant new economy to be found in conservation and that is where our future lies. When we try to envision the America that Mr. Pombo has mapped out for us, all we can see is a nation committed to devouring itself, one barrel of oil at a time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; Election Issues; Law and Legislation; Royalties; Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: Richard W (Rep) Pombo

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; California

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



444 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Benefits to Increase 3.3%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
Social Security checks for nearly 49 million retirees will go up by 3.3 percent next year, an average increase of $33 a month. 
 The monthly benefit for the typical retiree will rise to $1,044, from an average of $1,011 this year.
The increase, a cost of living adjustment announced Wednesday by the Social Security Administration, will go to more than 53 million people. 
 Nearly 49 million of those people receive Social Security benefits; the rest receive Supplemental Security Income benefits, aimed at the poor.
 The increase for 2006 was 4.1 percent, which had been the biggest increase in 15 years.
 Benefit payments, which have been tied to inflation since 1975, surged by double-digit amounts in the high-inflation years of 1980 and 1981, but increases have been more moderate in recent years as the Federal Reserve has had more success keeping inflation under control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%) Social Security (US); Cost of Living

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



445 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Supertax Me

BYLINE: By Martin B. Schmidt. 
Martin B. Schmidt is a professor of economics at the College of William & Mary.

DATELINE: Williamsburg, Va. 

 BODY:
THE National Center for Health Statistics estimates that 30 percent of American adults, some 60 million people, are obese. Thirty years ago that number was 15 percent. The trend is similar among children: according to the surgeon general, the percentage of obese youths has tripled, to nearly 15 percent, since the 1960's.
 Obviously, we face a crisis of obesity and its concomitant health problems. In the spirit of ''every little thing can help,'' I have a modest suggestion to reverse the trend: enact a tax on drive-through food orders. 
Now there are many reasons for the rise in obesity, but to an economist a big factor is that food has become ''too cheap.'' I do not mean in the typical sense of dollars and cents. (The fact that that the average family pays only about 20 percent of its income on food today, down from 30 percent in the 1960's, is a positive change.)
 Rather, I mean that the procurement of food has become too ''cheap'' in terms of time and effort. Advances in technology have allowed us to increase the food supply while reducing the amount of workers needed to produce it. In 1830, roughly 300 labor-hours were required to produce 100 bushels of wheat. Today, that number of bushels can be produced with fewer than three labor-hours. 
 At the same time, of course, workers have moved into less physically taxing jobs, typically spending most of the day sitting in a chair rather than tilling the soil. Some estimates hold that 50 percent of Americans do not exercise regularly. 
 And in terms of breakfast, lunch and dinner, one hardly has to do anything but drive a car and chew. The Centers for Disease Control estimates that 40 percent of the average family's food budget is spent on fast food. Furthermore, a recent study from the market survey firm Claritas estimates that 78 percent of all fast-food diners use the drive-through. Heck, even many of the more expensive, family-style restaurant chains now have special parking spaces where video cameras are on the lookout so workers can bring your order to you in the front seat. 
 If the low ''cost'' of eating fast food is adding to the obesity problem, the solution involves increasing the cost, even in a nominal way. How do we give individuals the incentive to pay a little more -- increased physical exertion, lack of convenience -- to get their food? This is where a drive-through tax comes in. 
 We could tax the drive-through purchases at, say, 10 percent, while leaving the purchase of walk-in meals alone. At the very least, it may entice some to park and walk rather than waiting in the car. 
 Now, this may seem an invasion of personal choice or another step toward a nanny state. Maybe. But there are other arguments to be made. We tax cigarettes in part because of their health cost. Similarly, the individual's decision to lead a sedentary lifestyle will end up costing taxpayers. In 2001, the surgeon general issued a report noting that obesity and its complications cost the nation $117 billion annually, much of it through Medicare and Medicaid. 
 Imposing a drive-through tax would be one way of recouping future taxpayer outlays -- perhaps revenues could go directly to government health programs. And who knows, it could help the environment, too: with one move, we could fight obesity and reduce emissions from all those cars idling in the line at Burger King.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); TRENDS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXCISE TAX (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (61%); MEDICARE (60%) Restaurants; Fast Food Industry; Excise Taxes; Weight; Medicare; Medicaid

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (58%)

PERSON: Martin B (Prof) Schmidt

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (76%) VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



446 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2084 words

HEADLINE: A New Mayor Tests His Promises on Newark's Harsh Reality

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
Lesson No. 1: Skin color does matter.
 It was Mayor Cory A. Booker's third month at City Hall and his choice for police director -- a high-ranking crime tactician from New York City -- was running into resistance. For Mr. Booker, who often says his administration will ''live or die on public safety,'' this most important appointment threatened to spiral into embarrassing defeat.
Publicly, critics said they were troubled by the nominee's scuffle with a pair of highway patrolmen who had ticketed his daughter, a year-old incident that Mr. Booker had initially shrugged off. But in a city that is 54 percent black and 33 percent Latino, with a new mayor whose own identity has been challenged as ''not black enough'' because of his suburban upbringing, the fact that the nominee, Garry F. McCarthy, was white was the ever-present if unspoken complaint.
 Weeks earlier, aides had cautioned Mr. Booker that it was dangerously naive to ignore Mr. McCarthy's race. ''This is Newark -- it matters,'' warned his politically minded chief of staff, Pablo Fonseca. Now several minority members of the Municipal Council slate that swept into office on Mr. Booker's coattails seemed ready for open revolt. 
 So the mayor who had vowed to change City Hall was reduced to the horse-trading and arm-twisting that defined his predecessor's reign. He promised to pave the main thoroughfare in one councilman's ward and left open-ended i.o.u.'s with other waverers. Mr. Booker eventually won the day, on a 6-to-3 vote, but he lost some of his luster along the way.
 ''I think Newark deserves better,'' said Luis Quintana, a councilman backed by Mr. Booker in the election who voted against Mr. McCarthy's appointment.
 After a campaign in which Mr. Booker sailed into City Hall with a landslide 72 percent of the vote to replace Sharpe James, the 20-year incumbent mired in accusations of malfeasance, he has found running New Jersey's largest city more challenging than he ever expected. To watch his new team up close is to witness the clash between political promises and the nitty gritty of governing, to see goals and plans sidelined by the realpolitik of race and budget gaps, and to experience the frustratingly sluggish pace of change.
 Turning Newark into the paragon of American cities sounded nice in campaign speeches, but 100 days in, the ambitious 37-year-old mayor is starting to settle for a city that is a little less bruised. Campaigns are run on emotion and white-knuckle grit, he has discovered, while governing demands ruthless dispassion to tolerate reordered priorities and a disappointed public.

Some Early Difficulties
 In these early days of his administration, Mr. Booker has infuriated homeowners by pushing through an 8.4 percent property tax increase to fill a deficit he did not anticipate. His openness with the press has sometimes backfired, such as when an offhand comment about needing to shrink the municipal workforce of 4,000 by as much as 20 percent angered the City Hall rank and file. Firefighters' union officials were irked by a reorganization of the department that led to the closing of three firehouses. 
 And stepping up arrests, he has learned, does not necessarily reduce violence; shootings and homicides rose compared with the previous summer, along with burnout on the 1,300-officer force and overtime costs mounting to $20 million.
 ''Things come at you 1,000 miles an hour, and much of the time you're dealing with chaos,'' an exhausted Mr. Booker said one recent evening as he rode to Manhattan for a private dinner with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York. ''You can easily get distracted by issues that are not central.''
 To keep focused, Mr. Booker often pulls a crumpled square of paper from his pocket. 
 ''To be America's leading urban city in safety, prosperity and nurturing of family life,'' reads the note he typed to himself shortly after his election in May. ''Newark will set a national standard for urban transformation by marshaling its resources to achieve security, economic abundance and an environment that is nurturing and empowering for families.''
 It is Mr. Booker's mission statement, invoked often in public speeches as well as impromptu pep talks to his staff.
 A bold statement, considering that Newark, population 275,000 and one of the nation's poorest cities, remains a stubborn synonym for urban dysfunction. One third of its children live in poverty. Fewer than 9 percent of its adults have a college education. Every year, 1 out of every 800 residents is hit by gunfire.
 His BlackBerry buzzes with the news of each shooting. One afternoon, Mr. Booker bolted from a staff meeting and sped to the scene when a 14-year-old girl was hit in the knee as she walked home from school, then to the hospital to console her family. 
 ''Listen, Mr. Mayor,'' said Daisy Hargraves, the girl's grandmother, as she lectured him in the emergency room. ''I don't want to hear any blame about the past administration. I just want you to stop the violence. It's not enough to just lock people up.'' 
 As he passed the 100-day mark in office last week, Mr. Booker had compiled some things to crow about (though he postponed a celebratory news conference until Wednesday because the glossy handouts were not ready). Despite a rise in homicides, shootings were down 20 percent in September. Dozens of no-show employees have been purged from the municipal payroll. In the coming months, 50 police surveillance cameras will be installed across the city -- the first ever. 
 ''The air is filled with the electricity of hope,'' said Lawrence P. Goldman, president of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, echoing business and civic leaders who describe a spirit of revival sweeping the city.
 But some say Mr. Booker has unrealistically lofty expectations for his tenure. He is grappling both with the impatience of those who expected a revolution, and the sniping of others who feel slighted or left out by the new regime. After a generation of machine-style rule by Mr. James, Mr. Booker's shakeup has inevitably led to a scorecard of winners and losers. 
 Some critics have never gotten over the fact that the Ivy League-schooled, Buddhist-inspired, vegetarian mayor was raised in an affluent Bergen County suburb, Harrington Park. Others are unhappy that much of his inner circle is made up of recruits from New York, and that many are white.
 ''After mobilizing voters, you're elected and then you have to say, 'Please wait your turn,' '' said David P. Rebovich, a political scientist at Rider University. ''He's made the people in Newark especially optimistic, and lo and behold, reality can be a bitter pill.''
 Frank Hurtz, a frequent civic critic, especially during the previous administration, lambasted the six-figure salaries Mr. Booker has given to his top aides and said he should have tried harder to hire Newarkers. ''What I see is a level of arrogance and a lot of public relations,'' he said during a recent hearing in which the Municipal Council approved the mayor's tax increase. ''To me, its just politics as usual.''
 It is too early to grade his administration, but Mr. Booker's first three months in City Hall offer hints of his governing style and highlight some of the issues and priorities that will shape his tenure -- and his future as one of the most prominent African-American politicians in the country. 
 He is a workaholic. He is obsessed with reducing crime. He is intent on increasing the role of charter schools in a city whose public education system, under state control for more than a decade, is in a shambles. And he knows how to use the news media to promote his agenda. 
 Last month, Esquire magazine included him in its ''Esquire 100'' and gave him three pages to expound on his plans; in the coming weeks Oprah Winfrey will feature him and Senator Barack Obama of Illinois on her show in a segment titled ''Audacious People.'' New York City news channels that in the past dispatched reporters here only for stories involving mayhem now cover relatively minor mayoral news conferences. 
 And he has agreed to let a New York Times reporter sit in on scores of normally private meetings for a series chronicling his first year.
 Most of Mr. Booker's days begin with meditation and a predawn run from his apartment in a nearly abandoned housing project through some of the city's most ragged neighborhoods. On weekends, he treks door to door, seemingly stuck in candidate mode. Twice a month, he sets aside a day to see anyone seeking jobs, housing, or even justice for a murdered relative.

An Encounter With Teenagers
 One recent day, Mr. Booker sang with 8-year-olds at a charter school, doled out hugs to teenagers at a homeless shelter and delivered a celebratory speech, flecked with Talmudic aphorisms, for the inauguration of a robotic surgery training center at Beth Israel Medical Center. Then he headed to the offices of the Essex County prosecutor for a meeting with two 16-year-olds who were caught spray painting ''Death to Cory Booker'' in a high school hallway. 
 Sitting in a conference room with the boys and their parents, Mr. Booker asked the teenagers, Duwon Diggs and Sean Bennett Leboo, about their dreams, peppered them with quotations from Frederick Douglass and Nelson Mandela, and scolded them for their muddled diction and messy hair. He has since taken the boys on as a sort of project, escorting them over the past few weeks to suburban bookstores and first-run movies like ''Fearless'' and ''Gridiron Gang,'' treating them to paella in the city's Portuguese Ironbound section and arranging for tutors from Rutgers University. 
 The mayor has set ground rules for their relationship: the boys must read books and, when in his company, wear collared shirts and speak thoughtfully constructed English. ''People will judge you by the way you look and talk,'' he told them. ''You're only 16 and it's not fair, but that's how life is.'' 

Good Days, Bad Days
 Most days are a mix of victories and vexations in the mayor's oak-paneled office, which often takes on the boisterous air of a student dorm lounge. When the tidings are unpleasant, Mr. Booker grabs a Diet Pepsi from the mini-fridge beside his desk, or fiddles with his string of African prayer beads. When he's relaxed, the shoes come off and Mr. Booker rests his feet on a chair. 
 One afternoon in early September, after three nights without a shooting, Mr. Booker's smile broadened when he learned that the state had agreed to pay for the city's surveillance camera program. Then Mr. Fonseca, the chief of staff, brought word that an ally on the Municipal Council was criticizing him in the press for introducing contracts for a vote at the last minute. 
 ''We should bang him and bang him hard,'' said Mr. Fonseca, a veteran of the previous administration who has been a Booker devotee since he was fired by Mr. James in 1999 for his perceived disloyalty. Mr. Booker winced and handed Mr. Fonseca a self-help best-seller, ''Way of the Peaceful Warrior.'' Mr. Fonseca smiled and passed it back, saying, ''That's definitely not me.'' 
 That same day, Anthony Campos, the acting police chief, announced that he had yet to find a pilot for the city's only police helicopter, which had been grounded for more than a year. It also lacked a functioning communication system and a municipal heliport at which to land. 
 In the ensuing weeks, Mr. Booker repeatedly pledged to have the helicopter airborne before his 100-day mark, promising that it would become an eye over the city to track joy-riding car thieves, its blinding spotlight shooing away troublemakers from cemeteries and parks. 
 ''I may need that thing to airlift me off the roof of Brick Towers,'' he said jokingly, a reference to the dilapidated building where he moved eight years ago as a gesture of solidarity with residents of city projects. ''If I have to fly it myself, we're going to get that thing in the air.''
 Two weeks ago, the helicopter touched down in a parking lot across from City Hall, a triumphal moment after several frustrating weeks of mixed crime figures.
 ''Everything is a wrestling match and so many things are taking longer than I want,'' he said afterward, joy spread across his face. ''The helicopter is a great symbol showing that we will get things off the ground.''
 Now all he needs is a heliport to land it.

The Hard Part
 This is the first article in a series that will chronicle Mayor Cory A. Booker's first year in Newark's City Hall.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Early in his tenure as mayor of Newark, Cory Booker, 37, chatted with youngsters after midnight in a municipal housing project. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Mayor Booker in action, from left: Meeting with Anthony Campos, the acting police chief
talking with two residents of city housing projects
and playing a spot of ''Simon Says'' with youngsters on the street.
 Above, Mayor Booker of Newark met with Rutgers students who will counsel problem youngsters. Below, in the first of his twice-monthly public office hours, he met with Margarite Petrillo. (Photographs by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RANKINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MISCONDUCT (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); ETHICS (74%); BUDGETS (50%) Surveys and Series; Mayors; Ethics; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Public Opinion; Election Issues

PERSON: Andrew Jacobs; Cory A (Mayor) Booker; Sharpe James

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



447 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; GOWANUS JOURNAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: A Ship of Freethinkers, Hemmed In by Landlords 

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
The boat is called the Empty Vessel.
 The name was meant to conjure infinite possibility, a floating tabula rasa on the Gowanus Canal in the form of a 63-foot World War II Navy rescue craft.
Fifteen months ago, the Empty Vessel journeyed up the canal on a mission both modest and, in this fenced-off, parceled-up city, almost unthinkably grand: to provide a floating meeting place and performance hall available to anyone with a creative idea.
 The Gowanus, which retains an off-the-grid feel despite a planned future as Brooklyn's own condo-lined Venice, seemed just the spot. And for months, anything went on the wooden boat with the tin-ceilinged cabin: punk-jazz squawkfests, knot-tying classes, antiglobalization documentary screenings, Russian lessons and poetry readings by tour bus guides. 
 Yet here is the vessel, at its fourth and least-inviting home in less than a year, tied up beside a waterfront truck lot guarded by no-trespassing signs that ensure that it stays pretty much empty, with winter coming on and no money coming in for the rent. 
 ''We really wanted to open-source space in New York,'' Paula Zaslavsky, one of the boat's curators and co-captains, said the other afternoon as an autumn breeze stirred the oil patterns on the water's surface. ''I'm wondering now if we should have tackled time instead of space.'' 
 Perhaps they should have tackled the fine art of tenancy. Landlords have found the vessel's improvisational approach to rules and agreements less refreshing than exasperating. ''They were almost like classic nihilists in the Russian sense,'' said David Lefkowitz, himself one of the canal's more eccentric characters, who briefly harbored the boat at his little empire of post-industrial art spaces. ''I never encountered anyone like them before.''
 The vessel began its voyage auspiciously enough. In June 2005, Ms. Zaslavsky, 29, an English-language teacher, and Tianna Kennedy, a cellist and sound artist, were breaking Dumpster-dived bread at Grub, a monthly ''freegan'' feed near the Brooklyn Navy Yard, when an acquaintance approached.
 ''He said: 'You know, there's a boat in the trash. Do you want it?' '' Ms. Kennedy, 28, recalled. The boat, built to rescue downed pilots, had served as a Fire Island ferry and a home for a hardy couple on Westchester Creek in the Bronx. But its engines were gone, its hull battered. Its owner in the Bronx planned to demolish it.
 One tugboat trip down the East River and up the Gowanus, one fund-raiser entailing a full-dress re-enactment of the 1968 Paris student riots, and the Empty Vessel was safely tied next to the lot of Shooting Star Coaches, a company that rents location vans to film crews. 
 Volunteers sealed and sanded, scrounged hardwood flooring and cozy couches, hung strings of lights. Dancing and barbecuing on the boat spilled into the Shooting Star lot, just north of the Carroll Street bridge.
 A great time was had by everyone except Shooting Star's proprietor, Ben Pironti. Revelers left his spotless vans littered with bottles and other unsavory debris, he said. Boat people helped themselves to his electricity. Children he swore were no older than 12 were drinking. Ms. Zaslavsky said minors were not served alcohol, though Ms. Kennedy conceded that Mr. Pironti had ''legitimate reasons to be unhappy with us.'' 
 The vessel was evicted. Mr. Lefkowitz, just downstream, offered refuge. He said that the boat was unsafe and agreed only to let the principals of the vessel on it to do repairs. Instead, he said, they threw a party. Ms. Kennedy said the truth was more complicated. In any case, he changed the lock after two weeks.
 It was January. Nearby, the dead end of First Street in Carroll Gardens sat empty. The vessel moved in. 
 It was a nice setup. People could get to the boat, and there was no one to pay rent to. On the other hand, the vessel was basically squatting, and the city began issuing summonses.
 By this time, the boat had fans. They sent letters. The city backed off. But after a dispute over access to Mr. Lefkowitz's driveway on First Street, Mr. Lefkowitz called the Coast Guard. Coast Guard inspectors found gas grills and other fire hazards and a vessel somewhat unsafely moored, but declined to get involved. 
 ''Basically what they found out was that this is just a place where people were hanging out,'' said Petty Officer Daniel Bender.
 Still, the findings were forwarded to the city. Last month, the city told the vessel it had to go.
 And so the Empty Vessel finds itself farther down the canal, without a lease, at a lot where trucks back in and out all day. Ms. Kennedy said that if the organizers cannot find an accessible semi-permanent home, preferably free, they may pack it in.
 Even the boat's supporters shake their heads. ''It's somewhat of a self-imposed nomadic life,'' said Owen Foote, treasurer of the Gowanus Dredgers Canoe Club.
 The vessel is not empty yet, though. Last week, a Senegal-born painter, Bara Joxane Diokhane became its first artist in residence. He is transforming the boat into an installation about economic refugees fleeing his country on rickety fishing boats bound for Spain.
 Mr. Diokhane has adorned the walls with scavenged fabric and pressed dead grape leaves into canvas. He regrets that, given the Empty Vessel's own precarious status, he will not be able to open his installation to the public. 
 ''The legal situation of this boat is not really clear to me,'' Mr. Diokhane said yesterday. ''But that's how it is for these guys from Senegal. I think that my being here sharing this boat can serve a meaningful purpose. It's what I call the war of art.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Gowanus Journal on Thursday, about the Empty Vessel, a boat that provides a floating meeting place and performance hall on the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn, reported that the boat has had trouble finding harbor rental space. The article included comments from Ben Pironti, a co-tenant at one waterfront lot, who said he had seen children as young as 12 drunk at a party held by the boat's operators. After the article was published on The Times's Web site on Wednesday evening, one of the operators, Paula Zaslavsky, contacted the reporter and denied that any minors had been served alcohol. Her response was added to later versions of the article online and in print. In fairness, The Times should have asked the boat's operators for their response before mentioning Mr. Pironti's assertion in the article.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, skippers of the Empty Vessel -- from left, Paula Zaslavsky, Tianna Kennedy and Dylan Gauthier
 and at left, Ms. Zaslavsky in the cabin. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); NAVIES (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); FERRIES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); POETRY (53%); RIOTS (50%) Boats and Boating; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: Andy Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Gowanus Canal (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



448 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: As Labor Leader Is Charged, Council Promises Reforms

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
With the New York City Central Labor Council's longtime president facing 43 federal racketeering charges, the leaders who have stepped in to oversee the organization pledged yesterday to make major changes in its ethics procedures and its role in helping New York workers.
 Ed Ott, the council's acting executive director, said the board of directors had been too passive and needed to be more involved in overseeing its leaders. 
While mindful of the presumption of innocence, Mr. Ott said many labor leaders felt betrayed by Assemblyman Brian M. McLaughlin of Queens, the council's president, who was indicted Tuesday on charges of obtaining $2.2 million through embezzlement, bribes and kickbacks. ''I'm extraordinarily upset,'' Mr. Ott said.
 He said he planned to reach out to immigrant workers and to create a committee to help veterans. But he said the labor council, an umbrella group of 400 union locals representing one million workers, had a lot of repair work to do. 
 ''It's our responsibility to re-earn our credibility,'' said Mr. Ott, who was the council's political director under Mr. McLaughlin. ''This is a collective responsibility and collective burden. I've always been willing to talk about corruption in the labor movement. We have to be held to a higher standard.''
 Mr. McLaughlin is accused of misappropriating funds from the central labor council, the State Assembly, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, various political and campaign committees and a Little League association in Queens. He pleaded not guilty on Wednesday and is free on $250,000 bail. His lawyer, Jonathan P. Bach, did not return telephone calls yesterday.
 Union leaders who had worked closely with Mr. McLaughlin said they were stunned by the breadth of the indictment. 
 ''If Brian did what he's accused of, it's disgusting and we've all been betrayed,'' said Stuart Appelbaum, the president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union and a member of the labor council's board. Denis Hughes, the chairman of the council's executive committee and the president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., has proposed far-reaching constitutional changes at the council to ensure more financial accountability and transparency.
 ''We also want to have some ethical practices and procedures that make some sense and have some real teeth,'' said Mr. Hughes, who has pushed for ethics seminars for state and city union leaders.
 Mr. Hughes declared that no future head of the labor council should simultaneously hold a political office. ''This job requires full attention from that individual,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''You can't have two full-time jobs and expect to get it done.''
 He said the council needed a strategic plan. ''We have to look at what exactly is our mission,'' he said. ''Our members are losing economic security. Many workers can't afford to live in the five boroughs any more in ways we were able to a generation ago. We have to help fix our education system, supporting the needs of students as well as the teachers.''
 Mr. McLaughlin began a six-month leave last month and Mr. Ott, 56, who has become the acting executive director, is now his probable successor. Mr. Ott began his career in labor in 1970 as a glassware washer at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, helping 1199, the hospital workers' union, organize employees there. He said Mr. McLaughlin had helped revitalize the labor council, but he promised to do much more, planning to create a health and safety program and to train small unions on how to organize nonunion workers.
 Mr. Ott vowed to work on reversing labor's decline in membership. ''There is not a culture of organizing at the center of the labor movement in New York City,'' he said. ''It's left to individual unions. We have to get union leaders and union members thinking all the time about organizing.''
 Randi Weingarten, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, said the council needed to form more alliances to help workers, perhaps with parents or immigrant groups. ''No movement can operate as an island anymore,'' she said. ''We have to focus on what the labor movement is all about -- working to make sure that the next generation of workers is better off than this generation.''
 Mr. Appelbaum said labor should ally itself with groups like Make the Road by Walking, an immigrant advocacy group in Brooklyn, and the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition, which is pushing for economic development and improved housing.
 ''We can't keep on going the way we've been going,'' he said. ''We have to find new ways to do things.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); BRIBERY (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); EMBEZZLEMENT (75%); MISAPPROPRIATION (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); LAWYERS (62%); RETAILERS (61%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (58%) Labor; Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments; Racketeering and Racketeers ; Ethics; Organized Labor 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (54%) New York City Central Labor Council

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



449 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

APPLE PROFIT TOPS ESTIMATES -- Apple Computer said that its fourth-quarter profit jumped 27 percent amid strong sales of Macintosh computers and iPod portable music players. Apple said brisk back-to-school sales were a major reason behind the results, which topped Wall Street estimates by a wide margin. Apple shares climbed as much as 6 percent in after-hours trading. [Page C1] 


VIRTUAL WORLD ADVERTISING -- Companies including Sony BMG Music Entertainment, Sun Microsystems and Nissan are testing the next frontier in Internet advertising: placing ads into online virtual worlds like Second Life and Virtual Laguna Beach. Some online users worry that the corporate intrusion will spoil their virtual paradises. [C1]

MICROSOFT LOOKS AT CHIP DESIGN -- After wedding its software to Intel's processors for decades, Microsoft is looking to its own research labs for as a new source in future chip design. One goal of the project is to give Microsoft more control over hardware and software and the way the interact in new devices. [C3]

CONSUMER PRICES FALL -- Falling energy prices helped push consumer prices down sharply last month, but the decline did not entirely dispel inflation worries because the measure of retail prices that excludes food and energy costs held steady at a level still above the Federal Reserve's comfort zone. [C3]

NEW AD AGENCY NETWORK -- Three longtime advertising executives are joining forces to start an agency network with an entrepreneurial bent. The agency network, called the Partners Group, aims to grow by encouraging more entrepreneurs to affiliate with the three founders. Advertising [C13]

MUSIC INDUSTRY AND YOUTUBE -- Universal Music Group, Sony BMG Music Entertainment and Warner Music each acquired small stakes in YouTube as part of licensing deals just prior to the sale of the company to Google for $1.65 billion. The three companies now stand to receive as much as $50 million collectively, people involved in the deal said. [C1]

A TORRENT OF IMMIGRANT MONEY -- The flow of money from immigrants working in the United States to Latin America has become a torrent, increasing by 51 percent from two years ago to over $45 billion, according to a new study. Where 20 years ago such remittances came from four or five states, today they come nearly every state in the country, the study said. [A24]

ELI LILLY CRITICIZED -- Three doctors at the National Institutes of Health have sharply criticized Eli Lilly for its efforts to promote the use of Xigris, an expensive treatment for patients with sepsis, an often deadly blood infection. In an article in The New England Journal of Medicine, the doctors wrote that Lilly had manipulated treatment guidelines to promote Xigris at the expense of older, cheaper and equally effective treatments. [C12]

TIME WARNER CABLE SHARES -- Time Warner Cable said that it would sell shares publicly for the first time, giving investors a chance to own a piece of the country's second-largest cable provider after Comcast. The shares would amount to 16 percent of the company's equity. [C5]

EARNINGS RISE AT A.M.D. -- Advanced Micro Devices, which makes computer processors, posted a higher quarterly profit but profit margins fell sharply, hurt by a price war with the rival chipmaker Intel. Advanced Micro said it expected fourth-quarter sales to rise from the previous quarter but did not elaborate. [C4]

NBC PLANS CUTBACKS -- NBC will announce a series of cost-cutting measures including some employee layoffs, executives said. The plans will include a relocation of MSNBC, the all-news cable channel owned by NBC from its current home in Secaucus N.J. [C13]

VIACOM SEVERANCE -- Viacom plans to pay its former chief executive, Tom Freston, $84.8 million after ousting him last month after less than a year in the top job. Mr. Freston will receive $58.9 million in severance. The remainder will be in deferred compensation, retirement funds and common stock, the company said in a regulatory filing. [C15]

BLOOMBERG NEWS NOT FOR SALE -- Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has rejected bids for Bloomberg LP, the financial information company that he founded in 1981, and has no immediate intention to sell the business, the company said. The statement came amid speculation that the company might be sold to free up Mr. Bloomberg's vast personal wealth for philanthropic causes. [C1]

DOW MOVES BRIEFLY PAST 12,000 -- The Dow Jones industrial average briefly swept past the 12,000 mark for the first time as investors showed optimism about corporate earnings and the economy. Then the blue-chip index pulled back, closing at another record high but short of 12,000. [C15]

ONLINE

DEALBOOK -- A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

A SPECIAL REPORT -- For mutual fund investors, jubilance over gains in the stock market has been tempered by the realization that many fund managers were caught flat-footed and did not keep pace. A report is at nytimes.com/business.

TAXES AND FAITH -- A number of communities around the country are debating whether or not religious organizations should receive property tax breaks. An audio slide show is at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Apple's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); VIRTUAL REALITY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (74%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); BLOOD DISORDERS (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (91%); INTEL CORP (83%); GOOGLE INC (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (53%); ELI LILLY & CO (51%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); LLY (SWX) (51%); LLY (NYSE) (51%); LEL (LSE) (51%); TWC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (91%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



450 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Is Big Issue for Voters Seeing the Upside of War

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

DATELINE: MADISON, Ala. 

 BODY:
In this boomtown of military contractors and veterans, Carla Rock, 36, sat on an aluminum bleacher on a recent afternoon watching her children's tennis lesson and discussing the coming midterm elections. 
 Mrs. Rock said that she was aware of the unease about the war in some parts of the country, and that she was concerned about the nuclear test in North Korea. But over all, she said, America is on the right course.
''I feel things are good here,'' she said. ''The economy's good, so it's hard to rock the boat.'' 
 Mrs. Rock, a Republican who twice voted for President Bush, said she would not want Democrats to take control of Congress with the country at war. 
 ''I'd rather they be on the same page,'' she said of the White House and Congress. 
 Madison, a well-to-do community of new brick housing developments on former cotton fields, is one of the fastest-growing towns in the Southeast. Its population of 36,000 is more than double what it was in 1990, largely because of the military and aerospace industries, which employ more than half the area's workers. Companies like Boeing, Hewlett-Packard and Raytheon have branches here. 
 In interviews this month about the elections, the overriding concern here was, in fact, the war in Iraq. But many residents said they were not seeking dramatic change. 
 In the big races here, polls show commanding leads for the incumbents: Gov. Bob Riley, a Republican, and Representative Bud Cramer, a conservative Democrat who is running uncontested. Statewide, of the four Republican members of Congress in contested races, none faces serious challenge. Alabama's seats in the Senate, both held by Republicans, are not up for election until 2008 and 2010. The close races here are for lieutenant governor, attorney general and secretary of state.
 Even so, the concerns expressed in interviews were less on local affairs than national ones. 
 While many here have friends or relatives serving in Iraq, the town has also benefited from military contracts, which lead to high salaries, low unemployment and rising real estate values. 
 ''As much as people hate to say it, when the country is at war, it makes our area more productive and creates jobs,'' said Bob Wagner, 52, an engineer for a military contractor who also serves on the City Council. 
 This year alone, new or expanding companies have brought 3,000 jobs and $175 million in investment to the area. A 3,800-acre research park abutting the Redstone Arsenal Army base is the second largest in the country. 
 In the last midterm election, Mr. Wagner, a registered Republican and former marine, said his greatest concern was to ''make sure America stood up to our enemies.'' He added, ''When 9/11 hit I was all gung-ho to go to Afghanistan.'' On Iraq, he said he trusted the administration to pick the best course.
 ''I think there will be a time to move the troops out,'' Mr. Wagner said, ''and I expect our leaders to have that information and act on it.''
 In addition to the war, he said another concern was property taxes: he does not think they are high enough. 
 With the community's rapid growth, Mr. Wagner said, ''I'm worried about how we bring more money into the area'' for schools, roads and other infrastructure. 
 Northern Alabama, which benefited from New Deal programs in the 1930's like the Tennessee Valley Authority, was once largely Democratic but now regularly splits the ticket, voting for Republican presidential candidates since 1980 while sending conservative Democrats to Congress. Madison's churches, including large Baptist and United Methodist congregations, are thriving but not very politically active. 
 ''Dissatisfaction with the war came late to Alabama,'' said David J. Lanoue, chairman of the political science department at the University of Alabama. ''Instead of the president's approval declining to 35 percent, it declined to 50 percent or slightly above.''
 Dr. Lanoue added that the state Democratic Party had been weakened by years of defeat, and was hindered by district lines that favor incumbents. Republican candidates also benefit from the coattails of Governor Riley, he said. 
 Still, some residents of Madison, often those who have relatives in the military, say the Iraq war is changing their minds about a lot of things. 
 Helen Lee, 55, twice voted for President Bush, but now said he lacked the right experience to send troops to war. Like many residents, she comes from a family of servicemen, including her father, grandfather and husband; her son is on inactive status in the Marine Corps while he attends college.
 Mrs. Lee is a registered Independent who says she votes mostly Republican. In the last midterm elections, in 2002, the Sept. 11 attacks were fresh in her mind, she said, and her biggest concern was for national safety. Now, Mrs. Lee said she had lost confidence in Mr. Bush. 
 ''Bush is not listening to his active-duty military people,'' she said. ''Bush and his advisers never served. You don't go in and 'take somebody out.' He's ignoring history, including centuries of hatred.'' 
 Aaron Beale, 26, a marine corporal on inactive reserve, is also impatient about Iraq. Mr. Beale said that four years ago he supported Mr. Bush and the plans for war, but his feelings have changed. Though he agreed with the push to remove Saddam Hussein, he said: ''The war has gone on so long because we don't have enough troops. I've had friends killed because we're doing patrol missions with our hands tied. We can't defend ourselves.'' 
 In the coming election, Mr. Beale said that he wanted Democrats to win majorities in Congress, but that he was not tied to either party. ''I used to be closer to the Democrats,'' he said, ''but now it doesn't matter to me, as long as we get someone who knows what he's doing.''
 While he waits to be redeployed, Mr. Beale, too, is benefiting from the booming local economy: he is working as a personal trainer, largely for the successful military contractors and their families. ''It's all a Catch-22,'' he said. 
 In a bungalow in Madison's historic district, Michael Murch, 39, an engineer who works on missile simulation, said that he was most concerned about terrorism and Iraq, but that people should have expected the war to go on this long. ''A lot of people choose not to accept that,'' Mr. Murch said. In the long run, he said he expected the war to reduce the threat of terrorism, even if it meant higher risk along the way. 
 Like some others, Mr. Murch said he felt sheltered in Madison, but that in the last four years he had become more concerned about some national issues, including same-sex marriage -- which he described as ''an irritation'' rather than a voting issue -- and illegal immigration. Illegal immigrants have become ''integral to the economy, but they're starting to strain some parts of the country,'' he said. ''You can't round them up and throw them out. We can't live without them. But I'd like to stop the flow. That would be a voting issue.''
 Mr. Murch said the war had hurt some parts of the local economy, because financing for some research and development projects had gone to buying military equipment. But over all, he said that he thought the economy was strong and that he was planning an addition to double the size of his house. ''It feels good to me because I'm not having some of the problems that they have in the rest of the state,'' he said. Even if engineers in Madison get caught in budget shifts, he added, ''There's an abundance of jobs.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''As much as people hate to say it, when the country is at war, it makes our area more productive and creates jobs.'' BOB WAGNER -- An engineer for a military contractor who also serves on the City Council.
''Bush is not listening to his active-duty military people. Bush and his advisers never served.'' HELEN LEE -- A registered Independent who says she votes mostly Republican.
 ''It feels good to me because I'm not having some of the problems they have in the rest of the state. There's an abundance of jobs.'' MICHAEL MURCH -- An engineer who works on missile simulation. (Photographs by Jacquelyn Martin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); CITIES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); TERRORISM (60%) Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Elections; Governors (US); Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Terrorism

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); BOEING CO (55%); RAYTHEON CO (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (55%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); RTN (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (79%); ROBERT E CRAMER JR (54%) John Leland; Bob (Gov) Riley

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%) Iraq; Madison (Ala); Alabama; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



451 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Objections Lead Spain to End an Aircraft Deal With Venezuela

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

DATELINE: MADRID, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
Spain's foreign minister said Wednesday that a deal to sell military aircraft to Venezuela had been canceled because American government objections made it unfeasible.
 The Bush administration denied Spain's request in January, saying that the sale would strengthen the government of President Hugo Chavez, which is hostile to American interests, and destabilize the region. Permission from the White House was needed because the aircraft would use American technology. 
EADS-CASA, the company that sought to build the airplanes, had said after the Bush administration's rejection that it would seek alternative technology from another country.
 On Wednesday, Miguel Angel Moratinos, the foreign minister, announced that the company, a division of the European defense company EADS, had decided to drop those plans. ''The company tried to find alternatives for that transfer of technology, and it reached the conclusion that the economic effort required to carry it out would not be profitable,'' he said during a news conference in Madrid. The company did not respond to telephone calls seeking comment.
 The aircraft deal, which involved the sale of 12 military transport planes, was signed in November as part of a broader agreement between Spain and Venezuela that was valued at 1.7 billion euros, about $2.1 billion. 
 Spanish officials say that the aircraft deal would have created hundreds of jobs. They also dispute the American contention that the sale would have a destabilizing effect, contending that transport planes are not suited for attack missions that could threaten Venezuela's neighbors.
 In his comments, Mr. Moratinos suggested that the government would continue backing Spanish companies that seek deals with Venezuela in the future.
 ''We favor any business initiative with anyone in Latin America or any country that we feel fulfills the norms of trade, good behavior and good conduct,'' he said.
 The Spanish announcement comes as Venezuela is struggling to win international support for its bid to gain Latin America's open seat on the United Nations Security Council next year. Spain has endorsed Guatemala for the position.
 Efforts to obtain comment from the Venezuelan Embassy in Madrid were unsuccessful. But during a brief visit to Madrid on Tuesday, Jose Vicente Rangel, the Venezuelan vice president, attributed the demise of the deal to ''limitations on Spanish sovereignty,'' an apparent allusion to American opposition to the sale, the Spanish news agency Europa Press reported.
 The American decision in January to reject Spain's request for permission to make the sale threatened to sour relations between the two countries just as they were recovering from the tension that originated with Spain's decision to withdraw from Iraq in April 2004.
 American officials have expressed unease over Madrid's refusal to adopt a hard-line approach to Venezuela, but stressed that the American position on the deal stemmed from its concerns over Mr. Chavez, a leftist populist, not Spanish policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); JOB CREATION (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%) Military Aircraft; United States International Relations; Defense Contracts

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (83%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (83%); EAD (MCE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%) Renwick Mclean

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%) SPAIN (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); GUATEMALA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Venezuela; Spain

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



452 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Rival Tax Relief Plans Reflect Stark Differences Between Spitzer and Faso

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Both John Faso and Eliot Spitzer are proposing billions of dollars worth of tax cuts if they are elected governor, calling New Yorkers overtaxed and economically challenged. 
 But their tax plans are as far apart as their poll numbers.
Mr. Faso, a Republican and former assemblyman, has made cutting taxes the central theme of his campaign, and he is proposing a huge array of tax cuts that would accumulate to $14 billion annually within four years. He would cut income taxes across the board, property taxes, and taxes on businesses, capital gains and dividend income, and would eliminate New York's estate tax.
 ''New York is at a crossroads,'' Mr. Faso said in his second and final debate with Mr. Spitzer last week. ''We must cut income taxes, business taxes and school taxes in order to keep business in our state expanding and keep young people in our state from leaving. That is the crisis we face in our state today.'' 
 Mr. Spitzer, the attorney general and a Democrat, has questioned whether the state could afford Mr. Faso's tax cuts and has focused his more modest proposal specifically on property taxes. His proposed cuts would reach $2.5 billion annually within three years and are directed at the middle class.
 Mr. Spitzer's tax cuts are coupled with plans to increase education spending by billions of dollars to resolve a lawsuit over state financing of New York City schools, while Mr. Faso has proposed to limit education spending increases by school districts. 
 ''The critical distinction, my plan versus those that have been proposed by many others, is that my plan focuses on the middle class,'' Mr. Spitzer said during last week's debate. He said that in Mr. Faso's proposed income tax cut, ''over 50 percent of that tax cut goes to less than 1 percent of the taxpayers.''
 The focus on taxes is no surprise, given that New Yorkers are among the highest-taxed people in the nation. Recent studies by the Tax Foundation, a Washington-based group favoring tax reductions, ranked New York as having the fourth-highest property taxes and ranked it 47th in business appeal. 
 Either candidate would have a challenge in pulling off what he is promising, in part because the state is already facing a budget gap over the next two years that is likely to rise to $13.9 billion, according to the state comptroller's office. Both men propose expanding the much-maligned and complicated School Tax Relief program, known as STAR, which offsets soaring property taxes with state aid directed at cutting local property-tax bills. 
 Mr. Faso, who is far behind in the polls, is preaching classic supply-side economics, arguing that a wave of tax cuts will reinvigorate the state's economy and bring people, jobs and revenue back to the state. Mr. Spitzer is arguing that tax cuts must be more modest, given the state's fiscal condition and the call from the courts for sharply higher education spending. 
 Mr. Faso proposes to cut income taxes across the board, reducing the top rate from 6.85 percent for married couples with incomes of $40,000 or more to 6.25 percent for married couples with incomes of $80,000 or more. A married couple earning $90,000 would see their average bill fall to $2,110 from $4,207. 
 The Faso campaign does not dispute Mr. Spitzer's assertion that most of dollars from the income tax cuts will flow to the richest taxpayers, but it emphasizes that the Faso plan would also fully exempt from taxation individuals with incomes of $25,000, or families with incomes of $50,000. 
 Both candidates are planning to increase relief available under the STAR program, which currently exempts $30,000 of the value of a person's home from being taxed. Under Mr. Faso's plan, that exemption would gradually increase to $60,000 and then be adjusted for inflation. The Faso plan would also double the current city income tax credit available to New York City residents, since that tax is the primary vehicle for financing schools in the city. 
 The Spitzer property-tax plan is directed at the middle class and excludes the wealthiest 2 percent of homeowners. Those earning at or below the median income, which ranges from $60,000 to $90,000 depending on the region, will see their exemption rise by 80 percent, or to $54,000. In New York City, the personal income tax credit for the typical resident would rise to $263, from about $188, the Spitzer campaign said. 
 Older taxpayers currently receive higher exemptions and would see those exemptions increase substantially under both candidates' plans. 
 Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer, likened Mr. Faso's plan to ''voodoo economics pulled out from the Karl Rove and George W. Bush playbook.''
 ''With a looming budget deficit stemming from years of irresponsible budgeting, it's time to get real about the state's fiscal problems,'' she said. 
 Mr. Faso has repeatedly argued that taxes will actually go up under Mr. Spitzer. In his campaign's only recent commercial, Mr. Spitzer's ghostly visage appears behind a flickering light bulb as a grim-voiced narrator says that a Governor Spitzer ''will mean thousands more in new taxes for every New York family'' -- a notion that Mr. Spitzer has adamantly disputed. 
 Central to this contention is a crucial difference between the candidates' tax plans: Mr. Faso proposes to cap the amount by which local governments can increase property taxes, while Mr. Spitzer does not. Mr. Faso contends that without such a step, relief offered by the state will continue to be swallowed up by increasing school budgets, and thus taxation at the local level. 
 ''Within two to three years, most homeowners will pay more,'' Mr. Faso said of his opponent's plan.
 Edmund J. McMahon, a budget analyst at the conservative Manhattan Institute, agreed. ''If you cap the local tax, then you put the pressure on Albany,'' he said. ''The evil is not the property tax; the evil is the overall financing system and the lack of restraint.''
 Frank Mauro, executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal watchdog group, said that capping property taxes would simply make permanent wide disparities in school financing levels across the state.
 ''Faso is essentially saying that all districts are spending at just the right amount right now,'' Mr. Mauro said, adding, ''Either he doesn't understand these huge gaps or he doesn't care.''
 This is the first of several articles examining the positions of the candidates in the governor's race

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ESTATE PLANNING (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); BONDS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); WILLS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); LITIGATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%) Taxation; Elections; Election Issues; Property Taxes; Capital Gains Tax; Stocks and Bonds; Wills and Estates; Governors (US); Taxation

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; John J Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



453 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Allstate Rebounds With Storm-Free Summer 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Allstate reported a sharp increase in third-quarter profit yesterday after a summer with no hurricanes. Analysts said the results were a harbinger for a record performance by the property casualty insurance industry in 2006.
 The company, the second-largest home and auto insurer after State Farm, said it earned $1.16 billion, in contrast to a loss of $1.5 billion for the same quarter last year after Hurricane Katrina and other storms destroyed or damaged more than 300,000 homes and businesses insured by Allstate.
 ''It's a big rebound,'' said Adam Klauber, an analyst at Cochran Caronia Waller, an investment bank in Chicago. 
Edward M. Liddy, the chief executive of Allstate, said in an interview that strong results were producing excess cash and that Allstate was buying back $3 billion of its shares. Such a step often increases share value. 
 Allstate's stock closed down 19 cents at $63.30 yesterday. But that was a 14 percent increase from $55.75 on Aug. 1, when the industry's share prices began rising as fears of a bad hurricane season began to ease. On average, property insurance stocks were up 10 percent yesterday from Aug. 1, Mr. Klauber said.
 Insurance experts said last week that they expected record profits of $60 billion for the industry in 2006, up from $43 billion in 2005 even after paying for damage in Hurricane Katrina and other storms. 
 The insurers ended 2005 with a big gain because of strong investment earnings and exceptional profits on auto insurance, workers' compensation, general liability and coverage on homes away from the coasts.
 Allstate was the first property insurer to report third-quarter results. Over the next month, 40 property insurers are scheduled to report profits, said Brian Meredith, an analyst at UBS Securities.
 ''You're going to have very, very big earnings from the companies,'' he said.
 Allstate reported an annual profit in 2005 of $1.8 billion, mostly because of strong earnings on auto insurance, said Kevin Callahan, a portfolio manager at Century Funds in Boston, which owns 40,000 shares of Allstate. 
 Mr. Liddy said he expected record annual earnings for Allstate in 2006 of $4.8 billion to $5 billion -- about the same as Allstate's losses from hurricanes in 2005. Altogether, property insurers paid out $61 billion for hurricane damage in 2005. 
 Allstate and other insurers raised prices along the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico after heavy hurricane losses in 2004 and 2005 and forecasts for this year of about a dozen hurricanes. The worst storm has been Tropical Storm Ernesto, which reached hurricane strength briefly over water but hit land in Florida in late August with winds well below hurricane force. No major storms are expected in the remaining six weeks of the hurricane season.
 Prices for coverage for many coastal properties have tripled and quadrupled. Some have risen to more than 10 times higher than last year. 
 But analysts said they expected little or no declines and perhaps some increases because forecasters were still predicting another decade of powerful hurricanes. 
 Allstate has led home insurers in combining price increases with cuts in coverage along the coasts. In Florida alone, Allstate has refused to renew 215,000 policies. It is not renewing nearly 40,000 policies in New York. 
 Consumer advocates say prices on the coasts are excessive. ''Insurers like Allstate are using last year's catastrophes as an excuse to jack up rates and, at the same time, cut back coverage,'' said Birny Birnbaum, the executive director of the Center for Economic Justice in Austin, Tex. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); HURRICANES (92%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); WEATHER (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (77%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Company Reports ; Insurance; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Levees

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (92%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Allstate Insurance Co

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (59%) Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



454 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Run, Barack, Run

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

DATELINE: Springfield, Illinois 

 BODY:
Barack Obama should run for president.
 He should run first for the good of his party. It would demoralize the Democrats to go through a long primary season with the most exciting figure in the party looming off in the distance like some unapproachable dream. The next Democratic nominee should either be Barack Obama or should have the stature that would come from defeating Barack Obama.
 Second, he should run because of his age. Obama's inexperience is his most obvious shortcoming. Over the next four years, the world could face a genocidal civil war in Iraq, a wave of nuclear proliferation, more Islamic extremism and a demagogues' revolt against globalization. Do we really want a forty-something in the White House? 
 And yet in his new book, ''The Audacity of Hope,'' Obama makes a strong counterargument. He notes that it's time to move beyond the political style of the baby boom generation. This is a style, he said in an interview late Tuesday, that is highly moralistic and personal, dividing people between who is good and who is bad.
 Obama himself has a mentality formed by globalization, not the S.D.S. With his multiethnic family and his globe-spanning childhood, there is a little piece of everything in Obama. He is perpetually engaged in an internal discussion between different pieces of his hybrid self -- Kenya with Harvard, Kansas with the South Side of Chicago -- and he takes that conversation outward into the world. 
 ''Politics, like science, depends on our ability to persuade each other of common aims based on a common reality,'' he writes in his book. He distrusts righteous anger and zeal. He does not demonize his opponents and tells audiences that he does not think George Bush is a bad man.
 He has a compulsive tendency to see both sides of any issue. Joe Klein of Time counted 50 instances of extremely judicious on-the-one-hand-on the-other-hand formulations in the book. He seems like the guy who spends his first 15 minutes at a restaurant debating the relative merits of fish versus meat.
 And yet this style is surely the antidote to the politics of the past several years. It is surely true that a president who brings a deliberative style to the White House will multiply his knowledge, not divide it.
 During our talk, I reminded Obama that at some level politics is about power, not conversation. He pointed out that he'd risen from nothing to national prominence in a few years so he knew something about acquiring power, but he kept returning to his mode, which is conversation, deliberation and reconciliation.
 The third reason Obama should run for president is his worldview. At least in the way he conceptualizes the world, he is not an orthodox liberal. In the book, he harks back to a Hamiltonian tradition that calls not for big government, but for limited yet energetic government to enhance social mobility. The contemporary guru he cites most is Warren Buffett.
 He has interesting things to say about the way culture and economics intertwine to create urban poverty. He, conceptually, welcomes free trade and thinks the U.S. may have no choice but to improvise and slog it out in Iraq. 
 The chief problem in his book is that after launching off on some interesting description of a problem, he will settle back, when it comes time to make a policy suggestion, into a familiar and small-bore Democratic proposal. I'd give him an A for conception but a B-minus for policy creativity.
 Obama, who is nothing if not honest about himself, is aware of the problem, and has various explanations for it. And what matters at this point is not his platform, but the play of his mind. He is one of those progressives, like Gordon Brown in Britain, who is thinking about the challenges of globalization outside the normal cliches.
 Coming from my own perspective, I should note that I disagree with many of Obama's notions and could well end up agreeing more with one of his opponents. But anyone who's observed him closely can see that Obama is a new kind of politician. As Klein once observed, he's that rarest of creatures: a megahyped phenomenon that lives up to the hype.
 It may not be personally convenient for him, but the times will never again so completely require the gifts that he possesses. Whether you're liberal or conservative, you should hope Barack Obama runs for president. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CIVIL WAR (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); RELIGION (55%); BABY BOOMERS (53%) Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: Time (Magazine)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (95%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) David Brooks; Barack (Sen) Obama; Joe Klein

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); KENYA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006



455 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: How Far Past 12,000? Watch Data

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average closed above the 12,000 mark for the first time yesterday, but looking ahead, the stock market's performance in the coming year will largely hinge on how gracefully the economy handles the troubled housing market.
 The Dow squeaked by 12,000 after two weeks of gains, indicating that investors are increasingly confident that the economy is poised to perform the relatively rare feat of slowing without stalling. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broader measure of the market, has also done well and is up 9.5 percent for the year. 
The Dow industrials closed up 19.05 points yesterday, at 12,011.73; the S.& P. 500 advanced one point, to 1,366.96; the technology-focused Nasdaq composite index gained 3.79 points, closing at 2,340.94; and the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies rose 3.98 points, to 767.39.
 Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange exceeded those declining by nearly five to three. Big Board volume was about 1.63 billion shares, compared with 1.62 billion on Wednesday. 
 On the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.79 percent from 4.76 percent, as prices declined.
 Among market optimists was Steven M. Roge, a portfolio manager at the Roge Partners Fund. ''It is the best of both worlds here,'' he said. ''We have interest rates that are still below the long-term average, capital is still flowing freely and growth is strong but not excessive.'' 
 But doubters say that may be too sanguine a view. Atop their list of concerns is the softening housing market and its direct and indirect effects on the economy. In addition to job losses in construction, finance and related fields, falling home sales and prices threaten to dampen consumer spending, which has been energized by low-cost mortgages and home equity loans.
 ''I am a little nervous that there is too much complacency,'' said Liz Ann Sonders, the chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab & Company. ''An overall economic soft landing is what is priced into the market. Believe me, I would love to get one, but soft landings are pretty hard to come by.''
 Other concerns include tensions in the Middle East and on the Korean peninsula. Those and other geopolitical matters could easily reverse the slide in oil and gasoline prices that started in August and helped lift consumers' spirits and their spending in the last month.
 The recent run-up in the market has favored large stocks, fattening the Dow, a dollar-weighted index of 30 blue-chip companies. Among Dow components, the technology giants Intel and Microsoft, which lagged early in the year, have had a good run.
 But some stock pickers see that strength as a worrying signal that large-company stocks may have become too expensive for the time being. More bullish investors say that such concerns remain hypothetical. In their view, stocks are fairly priced based on still-strong earnings reports and forecasts. The price-to-earnings ratios of stocks -- 17.8 for the S.& P. 500 and 22.5 for the Dow components, according to Bloomberg News -- are close to historical averages and far below the lofty levels of early 2000 in the technology boom. In the third quarter, profits at S.& P. 500 companies are expected to rise almost 14 percent from the period a year earlier.
 ''I think the direction of the market is up,'' said Scott Black, president of Delphi Management, an investment firm in Boston. Mr. Black said he did not foresee ''housing melting down completely'' and liked the prospects of energy and technology companies.
 Still, even many optimistic market watchers acknowledge that it may be unrealistic to expect corporate profits to stay on their current run -- earnings have risen by double digits every quarter for the last four and a half years. As of now, Wall Street is expecting that the profit machine will continue to mint money even as the economy slows.
 ''For U.S. equities to have a sustained move on the upside, we need earnings estimates to come down to a realistic level,'' said Robert C. Doll, vice chairman and global chief investment officer for equities at BlackRock, who is generally upbeat on stocks.
 Market experts also note that the rally over much of the last four years has still not been tested by a true correction, which is defined as a drop of 10 percent or more in the major indexes. The market came closest to that in the late spring and early summer, when the S.& P. 500 and the Dow each fell about 8 percent and the Nasdaq composite dropped 15 percent. Stocks fell harder and further in foreign markets, particularly in developing nations, and so did commodities like gold and oil.
 Since then, the market has risen steadily, following a well-charted pattern in which stocks do well toward the end of midterm election years, market specialists note. The difference this time is that the market started moving up in the third quarter, which has tended to be a weak stretch.
 ''You have to go back a very long way to find a negative'' performance during a midterm election year, said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's equity research. ''On average, you have a positive year 90 percent of the time.'' By his calculation, the average gain for the S.& P. 500 in the fourth quarter of midterm election years since 1945 is 7.6 percent.
 Mr. Stovall said he found it a ''bit disconcerting'' that stocks in the United States had not had a correction in nearly four years, but that he was beginning to think that as investing abroad had become more common, he should be satisfied that stocks around the world dropped more. The S.& P. Global 1,200 stock index fell 11.5 percent this summer.
 Another contrarian signal that cheers some market watchers for the longer term is that many investors remain ambivalent about stocks, based on sentiment surveys and mutual fund flows. Typically, markets are closest to a top when exuberance among investors is palpable.
 ''Investor confidence is still somewhat cautious,'' said Bruce Bittles, chief market strategist at Robert W. Baird. ''We don't have the extreme optimism like we had in the past. Until we get them invested, I think the market is going to keep going up.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders and others at the New York Stock Exchange showed anticipation as the Dow broke 12,000 yesterday. (Photo by Casey Kelbaugh for The New York Times)(pg. C9)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''The Long Road to 12,000''The Dow Jones industrial average closed above 12,000 yesterday, at 12,011.73. It has been more than seven years since the index first passed 11,000 on May 3,1999.Graph shows the Dow Jones industrial average, daily closes since 1995.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; United States Economy; Records and Achievements; Housing; Finances; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (63%); INTEL CORP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



456 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: You Can't Use That Tax Idea. It's Patented.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
As the American tax law gets more and more complicated, lawyers have come up with one more way to make life difficult for taxpayers: Now you may face a patent infringement suit if you use a tax strategy someone else thought of first.
 ''I can't even imagine what it will be like in 5 or 10 years,'' said Dennis B. Drapkin, a tax lawyer with Jones Day in Dallas, ''if anytime a lawyer or accountant gives tax advice, they have to find out if there is a patent on this.'' He notes that researching patents, and then licensing them, would just make tax compliance more costly. 
Mr. Drapkin is chairman of a task force of the American Bar Association's tax section that will discuss the issue today in Denver. He said that after one conference where tax strategies were discussed, participants got a letter warning that using one idea mentioned would be in violation of a patent.
 Why would Congress pass a law allowing such a thing? The answer is that it did not. But a federal appeals court ruled in 1998 that business methods can be patented, and since then the Patent Office has issued 49 tax-strategy patents, with many more pending.
 There is even one case pending in federal court in Connecticut, in which an organization called Tax Strategies Group complains that John W. Rowe, the former chief executive of Aetna, infringed on its patent by using a certain type of trust to minimize taxes on profits from stock options. The group wants Mr. Rowe to be barred from using that strategy unless he buys a license from them.
 To patent lawyers, all this makes some sense. Others might see it as an example of judicial absurdity.
 But if it is legal, the mind boggles at the possibilities. Could I get a patent on taking a deduction for dependents, so that every parent in America would have to pay a royalty to me to take advantage of the tax law passed by Congress? 
 I presume the patent office would find that obvious, and thus not patentable, but there are plenty of slightly more complicated strategies that might be patentable, particularly considering the fact that patent examiners may not be tax experts.
 Indeed, Cheryl E. Hader, a partner at Ropes & Gray who represents Mr. Rowe, argues that the strategy he used was clearly authorized by the tax law and that no patent should have been granted.
 One can imagine lawyers and accountants rushing to the patent office as soon as a new tax law is passed, seeking to claim credit for dreaming up ideas that were made possible by the new law. Lobbyists who get tax breaks inserted into such bills would be in a preferred position to win the race to patent them.
 In an article in Legal Times this week, Paul Devinsky, John R. Fuisz and Thomas D. Sykes, three lawyers from McDermott, Will & Emery, suggested that a company might figure out a tax strategy that would save it a lot of money, and then patent it. Then the company could refuse to license the patent to its competitors, thus raising its rivals' cost of doing business.
 Tax patents, the lawyers wrote, amount to ''government-issued barbed wire'' to keep some taxpayers from getting equal treatment under the tax code.
 In an ideal world, Congress might pass tax laws so simple that clever strategies would be impossible and tax lawyers would need to find other employment. But until that happens, it would seem obvious that Congress would want to assure that all taxpayers are treated equally. 
 After all, as Mr. Devinsky and his colleagues wrote, ''The successful patenting of tax strategies now limits Congress' ability to shape economic policy through legislation, and places that power in the hands of individual patent holders.''
 But in Washington, such things are seldom simple. Asked what he thought Congress would do, Mr. Fuisz said action was possible, recalling that six years ago doctors got Congress to protect them from patent infringement suits over surgical techniques.
 But, he added, it will be a battle of interests. ''You will see the people making money off these patents lining up against those who dispense tax strategy advice,'' he said.
 So now we can have lobbying over whether all can benefit from what the lobbyists accomplished earlier.
 Ain't democracy great?


GRAPHIC: Graph shows Tax PatentsTax patents pending or issued by the Patent and Trademark Office.GRANTED: 49PENDING: 81(Source by U.S. Patent and Trademark Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); PATENTS (93%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LAWYERS (91%); PATENT LAW (90%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (90%); TAX PLANNING (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); VERDICTS (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (66%); APPEALS (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Taxation; Inventions and Patents; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Taxation

COMPANY: JONES DAY (90%); ROPES & GRAY LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (84%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (83%) American Bar Assn

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris; Dennis B Drapkin

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



457 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1014 words

 BODY:

GOOGLE KEEPS ON GROWING -- Google, the world's largest search engine company, said that its profits nearly doubled from a year ago, maintaining a torrid growth rate at a time when rivals like Yahoo appeared to be faltering. Google said it earned $733 million in the third quarter, up 92 percent from a year ago. Revenue climbed to $2.69 billion, with 44 percent of that coming from outside the United States. [Page C3.] 


DOW ABOVE 12,000 -- The Dow Jones industrial average closed above the psychologically important 12,000 level for the first time, indicating that investors were increasingly confident that the economy was poised to perform the rare feat of slowing without stalling. The performance in the months ahead will depend, in part, how gracefully the economy handles the slowing housing market. [C1.]

BIG BANK EARNINGS -- Citigroup seemed to stumble and Bank of America appeared to strut through a messy third quarter as the country's two biggest banks contended with pressures of a slowing economy and higher interest rates. [C3]

CBS SETTLES ACCUSATIONS -- CBS became the first radio corporation to settle accusations of illicit pay-for-play practices made by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general. CBS, which runs approximately 180 radio stations, agreed to adopt more stringent policies on its stations' dealings with record labels and to make a $2 million payment to New York charities. [C3.]

MEDICINE VS. MARKETING -- For many doctors, it's an irresistible pitch: a $250 profit from a 15-minute test. With that lure, some 12,000 of the nation's physicians have purchased an automated device that checks patients for nerve disease. Specialists say the problem is that many general practitioners are not qualified to do such tests. [A1.]

HIGHER PROFITS AT DRUG MAKERS -- Drug makers continued to post strong profit gains, led by Pfizer, the world's biggest pharmaceutical company, which reported that its third-quarter earnings had more than doubled from a year earlier. Eli Lilly, Novartis, and Wyeth also reported higher quarterly profits. [C2]

VIDEO GAME WARS -- Laying the groundwork for a battle against rival Microsoft, Sony said that 21 games would be available for the PlayStation 3 game console when it goes on sale next month. Sony also plans to highlight the console's ability to play high-definition DVD's in Sony's Blu-ray format. [C11.]

BANNER YEAR IN HONG KONG -- In a reflection of China's growing prominence in international finance, Hong Kong is set for a banner year in global markets with more money raised by companies selling shares to the public here than on the biggest exchanges in New York and London. Pricing will be set today for the world's largest IPO ever, that of China's biggest bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. [C1.]

BEYOND REGULATORS' REACH -- Every month, roughly 19,000 households across the country write check to Christian Care Ministry. The members pool their health expenses and contributions and the ministry writes checks to health care providers. Such payments totaled $57 million in the latest fiscal year. While ministry members say they are helping to carry each others burdens, some Florida state officials see what they would call unregulated health insurance. [C1.]

RULING AGAINST GRASSO -- A New York judge ruled that Richard A. Grasso, a former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, would have to return as much as $100 million of a fiercely contested $139.5 million retirement payout to the exchange The judge, Justice Charles E. Ramos of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, said that Mr. Grasso did not disclose to his fellow directors on the board of the exchange the extent to which his soaring compensation had caused his pension and savings to balloon. [A1.]

MERGER REVERBERATIONS -- The $8 billion combination of Chicago's derivatives markets is being heralded as good for Chicago and good for the exchanges. But in Europe, it is raising concerns at banks and rival exchanges that it may increase costs or stifle competition. One of the biggest fears in London where the local derivatives exchange will be dwarfed, is that it creates a so-called vertical silo, or a market where one giant entity is both a trading platform and a clearing system. [C8.]

NBC STAFF CUTBACKS -- NBC said it planned to reduce its 6,000-person newsgathering staff by an estimated 5 percent, or 300 people to adapt to the migration of news viewers to the Internet and eliminate overlaps in news coverage. Steve Capus, president of NBC News, said the bulk of the cuts would come from eliminating jobs already vacant, as well as from early retirements and voluntary buyouts, but that some layoffs were inevitable. [C4.]

LOWER COST PROGRAMMING -- As part of the extensive cost-cutting program it announced yesterday, NBC intends to dramatically alter its prime-time programming, starting in the fall of 2007, filling the 8 p.m. hour each night of the week with lower-cost, unscripted programs and saving its more expensive scripted comedies and dramas for the 9-to-11 block. [C1.]

WEAK NEWSPAPER PROFITS -- Newspaper companies continued to show weakness, with The New York Times Company and the Tribune Company both reporting lackluster earnings, citing soft advertising sales as a major culprit. At the Times Company, the slowdown ''is expected to continue through the end of the year,'' said Janet L. Robinson, the company's president and chief executive. [C7.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

McDonald's reported a 15 percent rise in third-quarter profitmeeting a better-than-expected forecast it gave last week. (REUTERS)

The UnitedHealth Group, the nation's largest provider of health insurance, said third-quarter net income rose 38 percent after acquisitions raised the number of policyholders. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Travelers packed planes operated by Continental Airlines and Southwest Airlines over the summer, but Continental's third-quarter profit grew while Southwest's earnings fell in another sign that traditional carriers were narrowing the gap with low-cost rivals. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Google shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (79%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); PFIZER INC (67%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); NOVARTIS AG (54%); ELI LILLY & CO (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); PFZ (LSE) (67%); PFEB (BRU) (67%); PFE (NYSE) (67%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); NVS (NYSE) (54%); NOVN (SWX) (54%); LLY (SWX) (52%); LLY (NYSE) (52%); LEL (LSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (67%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



458 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: To Explain Soft Numbers, Newspaper Companies Name a Common Culprit

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
NEWSPAPER companies continued to show weakness yesterday, with The New York Times Company and the Tribune Company both reporting lackluster earnings, citing soft advertising sales as a major culprit.
 At the Times Company, the slowdown ''is expected to continue through the end of the year,'' said Janet L. Robinson, the company's president and chief executive.
The Times Company reported a 39 percent drop in profit for the third quarter compared with the same period a year ago. In addition to being hurt by sagging ad revenues in several categories, the company's results were pulled down by continuing economic weaknesses in New England, where the company owns The Boston Globe. 
 The Tribune Company managed an increase, thanks primarily to a one-time gain. Excluding this gain, however, the company's earnings fell short of Wall Street's expectations by about 2 cents a share. Tribune's stock price rose a penny yesterday, to $32.91.
 On Wednesday, Dow Jones, which publishes The Wall Street Journal, said its third-quarter earnings rose because of a tax gain. Not counting that gain, earnings slipped to $9.4 million, or 11 cents a share, from earnings of $10 million, or 12 cents a share, the year before. It also said that advertising revenue at The Journal fell 5.9 percent in September compared with the previous year. The company said its volume of advertising decreased 8 percent, ''due to declines in the technology, classified, general and financial categories.''
 At the Times Company, net income for the quarter fell to $14 million, or 10 cents a share, from $23 million, or 16 cents a share, from the same period last year. Total revenues declined 2.4 percent, to $740 million.
 Revenue from advertising for The New York Times Media Group, which includes The New York Times, nytimes.com, The International Herald Tribune and IHT.com, fell 4.1 percent, and revenue from circulation was down 0.3 percent. Advertising revenue for The New England Media Group, which consists largely of The Globe, tumbled 12.4 percent and revenue from circulation fell 5.7 percent.
 Asked in a conference call with financial analysts if the Times Company had considered selling The Globe, Ms. Robinson said that it was company policy not to comment on such matters. ''That said,'' she added, ''we view The Globe as an extremely important asset to our overall portfolio, and we've taken great steps to improve its performance.''
 She said part of the problem in Boston had been weaker classified advertising in print, attributable in part to the consolidation of department stores. But she said she expected better news as other major stores opened. In addition, The Globe has allowed advertising on the front of its sections, she noted, and can expect higher revenues from a new zoned auto section and a glossy magazine on design.
 Alexia S. Quadrani, a media industry analyst at Bear Stearns, who had asked about The Globe, said in an interview later that The Globe had been ''such a drain on the company's overall finances for so long'' that a short-sighted investor might wish The Times would sell it. She said she took from Ms. Robinson's response that the company could eventually do so, but would not in the near future. 
 Ms. Quadrani said The Times was probably keeping The Globe because the company expected the Boston market to improve and because the company was busy selling its television stations and building up its digital business. Moreover, she said, The Globe is at ''a low point'' and would probably not bring a strong return. The Times Company paid $1.1 billion for it in 1993. Selling it would also have tax consequences. 
 While the New England group lost revenue from advertising and circulation, it increased other revenues more than 18 percent, largely from commercial printing. The Worcester Telegram & Gazette, a Times Company paper, prints Metro Boston, a free daily, as well as The Daily News of New York; in June, The Globe began printing The New York Post.
 Tribune, which owns The Los Angeles Times, Newsday, The Chicago Tribune and The Baltimore Sun, reported net income of $162.2 million, compared with $21.9 million a year earlier. But revenue for the company fell, declining 2.5 percent from a year earlier.
 Tribune said it benefited from reworking two partnerships with the Chandler family, its biggest shareholder. A recent agreement with the Chandlers increased their stake in the company to about 20 percent, from 15 percent, and yielded the company a $48 million gain after taxes, accounting for one-third of the company's net profit for the quarter. 
 At the Times Company, the cost of job cuts and the sale of its stake in the Discovery Times Channel shaved about 6 cents off per-share earnings. Without those charges, the company would have earned 16 cents a share, well ahead of Wall Street estimates of 12 cents a share for the quarter, and would have kept its earnings flat. The company's share price fell by 51 cents yesterday, to $22.74.
 Internet-related revenues for the entire company continued to climb, and accounted for 8.5 percent of revenues in the third quarter, compared with 6.7 percent a year ago, Ms. Robinson said. Also, revenues from about.com increased 29 percent, to $18.3 million.
 Both the Times Company and Tribune Company expect to reshape their businesses. The Times Company announced last month that it planned to sell its Broadcast Media Group, a profitable collection of nine television stations that will bring in about $150 million in revenue this year.
 In response to an analyst's question about whether the company might consider a leveraged buyout, Ms. Robinson said the company has two classes of stock, which safeguards it from an unwanted takeover. ''Only the Ochs-Sulzberger family, which owns 20 percent of the equity of the company, can change the capital structure,'' she said. ''They have given no indication that they plan to do so.''
 Tribune said last month it was exploring selling some or even all of its 11 newspapers and two dozen television stations. The Tribune board agreed to consider breaking off some of its assets after coming under pressure from the Chandler family. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column on Friday, about quarterly earnings for the Tribune Company and The New York Times Company, gave the incorrect name in some copies for a newspaper that The Times owns and operates as part of its New England group, a division that lost revenue from advertising and circulation but increased other revenues, largely from commercial printing. It is the Worcester Telegram & Gazette, not the Wooster Telegram & Gazette.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Newspapers; Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Newspapers

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (96%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times; Tribune Co

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: JANET L ROBINSON (79%) Katharine Q Seelye; Jeremy W Peters; Janet L Robinson; Ochs Family; Sulzberger Family

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



459 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE LISTINGS: Oct 20-Oct.26; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 16037 words

 BODY:

Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'BHUTAN' In previews; opens on Oct. 29. Witness the ups and downs of a New England family in Daisy Foote's new play (1:20). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, between Barrow and Bedford Streets, West Village, (212) 239-6200.

'BUTLEY' In previews; opens on Wednesday. Nathan Lane plays an embattled professor in this Simon Gray comedy, which was a hit at the Huntington in Boston (2:30). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'THE CLEAN HOUSE' In previews; opens on Oct. 30. The MacArthur grant winner Sarah Ruhl's fantastical romantic comedy is about a well-heeled Connecticut family that hires a maid who would rather compose the perfect joke than clean (2:15). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.

'THE COAST OF UTOPIA: VOYAGE' In previews; opens on Nov. 5. Tom Stoppard's three-play epic about the forebears of the Russian Revolution begins with ''Voyage,'' set in 1833 in the Russian countryside. The all-star cast includes Billy Crudup, Ethan Hawke, Jennifer Ehle, Richard Easton and many, many more (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.

'DR. SEUSS'S HOW THE GRINCH STOLE CHRISTMAS: THE MUSICAL' Previews start on Wednesday. Opens on Nov. 8. You loved the book. You hated the movie. Now see the musical (1:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100.

'GREY GARDENS' In previews; opens on Nov. 2. The Playwrights Horizons's musical adaptation of the Maysles documentary moves to Broadway (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'THE INTERNATIONALIST' In previews; opens on Nov. 7. This new play by Anne Washburn (''Apparition'') is about an American businessman making do abroad (2:00). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303.

'MARY POPPINS' In previews; opens on Nov. 16. Disney looks to find its old magic touch with this new blockbuster, which transfers from London with good buzz. Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne direct (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100.

'MIMI LE DUCK' In previews; opens on Oct. 31. A Mormon housewife leaves her husband, Idaho and a QVC Network job for a new life in Paris in this comic musical (2:05). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

'LES MISERABLES' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on Nov. 9. And you thought the romance was over. Three years later, the famous revolve returns to Broadway (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 34th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'MY DEAH' In previews; opens on Wednesday. John Epperson -- a k a Lypsinka -- offers his inimitable take on ''Medea'' (1:30). Abingdon Theater, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 868-4444.

'POST MORTEM' In previews; opens on Nov. 2. A. R. Gurney goes meta in this new play about political repression set in the not-too-distant future, when a new work by an obscure writer named A. R. Gurney is discovered. Jim Simpson directs (1:30). The Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101.

'REGRETS ONLY' In previews; opens on Nov. 19. The Manhattan Theater Club presents the world premiere of Paul Rudnick's new zinger-filled comedy of manners set in high society (2:00). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.

'A SMALL MELODRAMATIC STORY' In previews; opens on Tuesday. The Labyrinth Theater Company presents a new play by Stephen Belber (''Match''), about a widow who falls in love with a policeman with a history that she might not want to know about (1:40). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.

'SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER' Previews start today. Opens on Nov. 15. The always lovely Blythe Danner stars in a revival of Tennessee Williams's brutal psychological drama. Mark Brokaw directs (1:30). Laura Pels Theatre, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300.

'THE SUNSET LIMITED' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on Oct 29. The novelist Cormac McCarthy's new play is about an ex-con and an intellectual atheist who meet on a subway platform. Austin Pendleton stars (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'THE TIMES THEY ARE A-CHANGIN' ' In previews; opens on Thursday. Bob Dylan has come back in vogue just in time for his Broadway show, staged by Twyla Tharp (1:30). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'THE WILD DUCK' Starts on Wednesday. Closes on Oct. 29. The National Theater of Norway celebrates the 100th anniversary of Ibsen's death with a new production of his masterpiece set in the 1950's (2:00). Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100.

Broadway

'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920's stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, it has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'JAY JOHNSON: THE TWO AND ONLY' A genial 90-minute entertainment giving Broadway audiences a chance to get reacquainted with the (almost) lost art of ventriloquism. Jay Johnson, the onetime star of the television comedy ''Soap,'' gives a pocket history of the profession, in addition to an ample demonstration, with partners that include a vulture who sings ''My Way,'' a foul-mouthed wooden tyke, a talking tennis ball and a monkey purveying some of the corniest shtick this side of a Friar's roast (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Charles Isherwood)

'JERSEY BOYS' (Tony Award, best musical, 2006) From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped biomusical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MARTIN SHORT: FAME BECOMES ME' This eager and amiably scattershot satire of celebrity memoirs and Broadway musicals, starring the immodestly modest Mr. Short, arrives a little late to the table for such parody to taste fresh. With serviceably tuneful songs by Scott Wittman and Marc Shaiman (of ''Hairspray'' fame) (1:45). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE WEDDING SINGER' An assembly-kit musical that might as well be called ''That 80's Show,'' this stage version of the 1998 film is all winks and nods and quotations from the era of big hair and junk bonds. The cast members, who include Stephen Lynch and Constantine Maroulis, are personable enough, which is not the same as saying they have personalities (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'ARMS AND THE MAN' Shaw's story of a mercenary who breaks into a young Bulgarian woman's bedroom while fleeing a battle seems not to have much social bite in this rendition, but the humor still works nicely, particularly when in the hands of Robin Leslie Brown and Dominic Cuskern as the invaded household's matriarch and patriarch. Bradford Cover has an appealing offhand delivery as the soldier (2:15). The Pearl Theater Company, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Neil Genzlinger)

'ASCENSION' Brandon Ruckdashel makes a stunning debut in Edmund De Santis's clever comic mystery about a priest, a beautiful young man and a mother's accusation of sexual abuse (1:30). The Lion Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, (212) 279-4200. (Anita Gates)

'BIRTH AND AFTER BIRTH' Baby is a bruiser in Tina Howe's self-conscious foray into the jungles of absurdism. Written in 1972, this explosion of the nuclear family appears to be stepping, with cautious exactitude, in the footprints of early Edward Albee. Christian Parker directed the rather stilted cast (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BLUE DOOR' An African-American math professor struggles to reconnect to his cultural past in this small but densely packed new play by Tanya Barfield. Reg E. Cathey is the professor, abandoned by his wife and visited by the ghosts of his ancestors, all played by the vibrant young actor Andre Holland (1:35). Playwrights Horizons, Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'BUSH IS BAD: IMPEACHMENT EDITION' A musical revue of silly, heavy-handed sketches aimed at Bush-haters (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 279-4200. (Jason Zinoman)

'ESOTERICA' Eric Walton's very entertaining one-man show is a mix of magic, mentalism and intelligent chat. He does all three impressively (1:30). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE HAIRY APE' The Irish Repertory Theater has put together a startling production of Eugene O'Neill's tale of a galoot called Yank who goes looking for his place in the world, one that vividly conveys what a gut-punch this work must have been when it was first seen in 1922. Eugene Lee's set is something to see, and the soundscape, by Zachary Williamson and Gabe Wood, is something to hear (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Genzlinger)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men (Robert Cuccioli and Drew Sarich) and two women (Natascia Diaz and Gay Marshall) perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems. Ms. Marshall's performance of ''Ne Me Quitte Pas,'' sung with heart-stirring transparency, represents Brel at his best (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'JOHN FERGUSON' This 1919 tragedy about a poor Irish family and how far its members will go not to lose their farm is a compelling, fully realized drama with a cast that doesn't miss a beat (2:20). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231. (Gates)

'KING LEAR' The ''promised end'' comes with disarming swiftness in this Classical Theater of Harlem production, starring Andre De Shields, which clocks in at just over two hours, not including an intermission. There's nothing distilled about Mr. De Shields's vigorous performance in the title role, but his impressive energy is not always productively channeled, and the supporting cast is uneven (2:10). The Harlem School of the Arts Theater, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, near 141st Street, (212) 868-4444. (Isherwood)

'MY NAME IS RACHEL CORRIE' A small, intense and loudly heralded one-woman drama that tells the true story of its title character, a pro-Palestinian activist killed in the Gaza strip by an Israeli Army bulldozer. Yet for all the political and emotional baggage carried by this production, adapted from Ms. Corrie's writings and starring Megan Dodds, it often feels dramatically flat, even listless (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'NIXON'S NIXON' Russell Lees's savory political satire takes place on the night before the president announced his resignation. Gerry Bamman and Steve Mellor created the roles of Nixon and Kissinger, respectively, in the original production from 1995, also directed by Jim Simpson, and they return to them with the ease of veteran vaudevillians slipping back into a comfortable partnership (1:30). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'THE PRIME OF MISS JEAN BRODIE' A slow, airless revival of Jay Presson Allen's 1966 play (adapted from Muriel Spark's novel) about a dangerous Scottish schoolteacher, directed by Scott Elliott and starring the wonderful (but miscast) Cynthia Nixon, who seems much too sane and centered as the deluded Miss Brody. (2:40). The Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

'SHOUT!' A miniskirted, go-go-booted zombie of a musical about women searching for love in London in the 1960's. You won't see anything this groovy, this far-out, this with-it outside of, oh, maybe the showroom of a Carnival cruise ship (1:30). Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SONGS OF THE DRAGONS FLYING TO HEAVEN' Young Jean Lee has fashioned a hysterically funny piece of theater with twisted socio-political power and giggly Korean dancers who would fit right into a Quentin Tarantino movie (1:30). Here Arts Center, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 868-4444. (Gates)

'SUBURBIA' This black-hole revival of Eric Bogosian's 1994 group portrait of losers in Angstville, U.S.A., directed by Jo Bonney, features lively performances from Gaby Hoffman, Kieran Culkin and Jessica Capshaw. But even if you're as success-addicted as Donald Trump, you're likely to find yourself identifying with these characters in the wrong way: They're beyond caring what happens to them, and so are you (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. (Brantley)

'TEMPEST TOSSED FOOLS' This musical audience-participation children's version of ''The Tempest'' is rowdy, colorful and not all that Shakespearean. Manhattan Ensemble Theater, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:10). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Phoebe Hoban)

'WRECKS' The tail wags the scorpion in the latest play by Neil LaBute to be propelled by a poisoned lunch line. This slender, prickly tease of a monologue -- whose whole raison d'etre is its last-minute revelation -- is given substance by an expert performance by Ed Harris as a newly bereaved widower (1:15). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. (Brantley)

Off Off Broadway

'HELL HOUSE' Les Freres Corbusier recreate evangelical Christian entertainments in this typically deadpan show (45 minutes).St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779. (Brantley)

'KRANKENHAUS BLUES' Sam Forman's bizarre tale of an actress, a playwright and a clown in a Nazi camp goes off the deep end fast, but there's a great monologue about cheese (1:15). Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 868-4444. (Gates)

'ME, MY GUITAR AND DON HENLEY' Krista Vernoff's saucy, satisfying black comedy is about six very different women in one dying man's complicated family tree (1:40). the 14th Street Y, 344 East 14th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Gates)

'THE THUGS' Rumors of death at a law firm make Adam Bock's new play a chilling little nightmare (1:15). SoHo Rep, 46 Walker Street, between Church Street and Broadway, TriBeCa, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman)

'TRUTH $(the heart is a million little pieces above all things$)' The virtuoso storyteller Mike Daisey's new monologue, which addresses issues about lying, memoir and the James Frey scandal, is less funny than his previous work but just as engaging and intellectually curious (1:40). Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman)

Long-Running Shows

'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DRUMSTRUCK' Lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). New World Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin stir up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Van Gelder)

'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans. (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'EL CONQUISTADOR!' Thaddeus Phillips's one-man show about a hapless Colombian doorman can be slow, but it's also ingenious and an excellent showcase for Mr. Phillips, who would have made a great silent-movie comedian (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200; closing on Sunday. (Gates)

'DRUG BUDDY' The aimless Texas drug dealers of David Folwell's slight slacker dramedy are one losers' club we wouldn't mind spending more time with, particularly the engaging lead, Matthew Stadelmann (51 minutes). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, between Barrow and Bedford Streets, West Village, (212) 868-4444; closing tomorrow. (Rob Kendt)

'GARDEL: THE MUSICAL' A standard-issue biomusical about the tango legend Carlos Gardel that wallows in melodrama (1:30). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9920; closing on Sunday. (Zinoman)

* 'THE TOOTH OF CRIME' This highly entertaining revival of Sam Shepard's musical comic-book melodrama about celebrity, mortality and rock 'n' roll may not be the slickest show around. But as directed by George Ferencz, it brings a demystifying clarity to a work often dismissed as a smoky head trip and makes a strong case for ''Tooth'' as one of Mr. Shepard's best plays (2:15). La MaMa Annex, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710; closing on Sunday. (Brantley)

'THE TREATMENT' A new play by Eve Ensler (''The Vagina Monologues'') depicting fraught encounters between a traumatized war veteran and a military psychologist. Fervently acted by Dylan McDermott and Portia, it is an overwrought amalgam of psychodrama and political sermonizing (1:05). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 253-9983, impactfestival.org.; closing on Sunday. (Isherwood)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'ALEX RIDER: OPERATION STORMBREAKER' (PG, 93 minutes) Based on the first in a series of best-selling kid lit adventure novels, the movie debut of Alex Rider, teenage super spy, is a James Bond flick for kids who have never heard of James Bond. (Nathan Lee)

'ALL THE KING'S MEN' (PG-13, 120 minutes) This second adaptation of Robert Penn Warren's big novel of political and spiritual corruption in Depression-era Louisiana is full of grand themes, good actors (Jude Law, Sean Penn, Kate Winslet, Mark Ruffalo) and lovingly-photographed southern scenery. And yet nothing seems to work. It's a chaotic stew of ambitions and ideas, but in the end neither convincing nor coherent. (A. O. Scott)

* 'DELIVER US FROM EVIL' (No rating, 101 minutes) Amy Berg's urgent, hard-to-watch documentary looks at sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church, interviewing victims and their families and, chillingly, a priest who preyed on several California parishes while his superiors apparently looked the other way. (Scott)

* 'THE DEPARTED' (R, 150 minutes) Martin Scorsese's cubistic entertainment about men divided by power, loyalty and their own selves is at once a success and a relief. Based on the crackling Hong Kong thriller ''Infernal Affairs,'' it features fine twinned performances from Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio, and a showboating Jack Nicholson. (Manohla Dargis)

'DRIVING LESSONS' (PG-13, 98 minutes) ''Driving Lessons'' belongs to that hardy niche of British comedies designed as star vehicles for distinguished actresses (preferably dames) of a certain age whose assignment is to win awards by devouring the scenery. If Julie Walters isn't yet a dame, her hammy portrayal of a retired actress who hires as her assistant a shy 17-year-old boy (Rupert Grint) from a strict Christian background is a step in that direction. (Stephen Holden)

'EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH' (PG, 103 minutes) A minimum-wage comedy chronicling the romance between a slacker box boy (Dane Cook) and a bodacious cashier (Jessica Simpson) working at a Costco-like megastore. Directed by Greg Coolidge with the creative flair of an entry-level training video, the movie is more tired than a Wal-Mart greeter at the end of a Saturday shift. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'THE GRUDGE 2' (PG-13, 95 minutes) Puberty sets off an exponential increase in evil -- and incoherence -- in Takashi Shimizu's continuing saga about a Japanese wraith with a fondness for neck-snapping and Goth makeup. What's new is an Altmanesque cast of victims, vaporized according to stupidity and/or sluttiness. What's old are the defective light bulbs, scummy bath water and camerawork that makes even teenage flesh look mottled. What's sad is that ''The Grudge 3'' is already in the works. (Catsoulis)

* 'A GUIDE TO RECOGNIZING YOUR SAINTS' (R, 98 minutes) Rough, ragged and full of life, this autobiographical movie, written and directed by Dito Montiel, about his youth on the streets of Astoria, Queens, is a remarkable debut, stuffed almost to bursting with bold performances and operatic emotions. (Scott)

* 'HAIR HIGH' (No rating, 78 minutes) Bill Plympton's gleefully outrageous animated feature has teenage romance, a big game with a halftime show that would make Janet Jackson blush, and, of course, a prom where death comes calling. It's eye-popping -- sometimes literally. (Neil Genzlinger)

'INFAMOUS' (R, 118 minutes) Truman Capote -- again! -- on the trail of ''In Cold Blood.'' It is warmer and more stylish than last year's ''Capote'' -- with fine performances by Toby Jones as Truman and Sandra Bullock as his pal Harper Lee -- but also thinner. (Scott)

'JUSTICE' (No rating, 102 minutes, in Portuguese) Maria Ramos's documentary following a few cases of petty crime through low-level Brazilian courts views editing as a vice; why indicate a walk down a hallway when you can show the entire long shuffle? The minimalist technique is deliberate, of course, and it admirably reveals the tedium of life for defendants, lawyers and judges alike, but any broader point is up to you. (Genzlinger)

'KETTLE OF FISH' (R, 93 minutes) Casting Gina Gershon as a mousy scientist (yeah, right) is the first mistake, though by no means the last, in this deeply misguided romantic comedy. (Lee)

* 'LITTLE CHILDREN' (R, 130 minutes) Todd Field's adaptation of Tom Perrotta's novel of suburban adultery is unfailingly intelligent and faultlessly acted. Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson are superb as the parents of young children who meet at the playground and enact a two-handed variation on ''Madame Bovary'' against a backdrop of social paranoia and middle-class malaise. (Scott)

'MAN OF THE YEAR' (PG-13, 115 minutes) Robin Williams plays a comedian and talk show host who plunges into the presidential campaign, telling truths the timid politicians dare not utter. Not really. This would-be satire, written and directed by Barry Levinson, is hectic and tired, with too many plots and too few sharp insights. (Scott)

* 'MARIE ANTOINETTE' (PG-13, 123 minutes) In this elaborate, bittersweet confection, Sofia Coppola imagines the last pre-revolutionary queen of France (played with wit and charm by Kirsten Dunst) as a bored, pleasure-seeking teenager trapped in a world of artifice and rigid protocol. Dreamy and decadent, the film is also touching, funny and bracingly modern. (Scott) 'THE MARINE' (PG-13, 93 minutes) Discharged from the Marine corps, John Triton returns home to find obnoxious yuppies, psychotic diamond thieves, a kidnapped wife and exploding gas stations. (Lee)

* 'THE QUEEN' (PG-13, 103 minutes) Directed by Stephen Frears from a very smart script by Peter Morgan, and starring a magnificent Helen Mirren in the title role, ''The Queen'' pries open a window in the House of Windsor around the time of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, blending fact with fiction. (Dargis)

'THE RITCHIE BOYS' (No rating, 90 minutes, in English, with some subtitled German) Though it may seem more like a History Channel special than a film for theatrical release, this documentary by Christian Bauer is an elegant entry in the Greatest Generation genre. It tells the story of a group of young Jewish men who fled Germany before the war, then volunteered for intelligence work with the American military when the fighting broke out. The ''boys'' -- named for the camp where they were trained, and now aging gentlemen -- tell their own story in a series of engaging anecdotes. (Genzlinger)

'SCHOOL FOR SCOUNDRELS' (PG-13, 101 minutes) Billy Bob Thornton stars as an alpha scoundrel who runs a self-improvement course for sad sacks of the sort persuasively played by the film's other lead actor, Jon Heder. (Dargis)

* 'SHORTBUS' (No rating, 102 minutes) John Cameron Mitchell's ode to the joy and sweet release of sex also manages to be a sincere, modest political venture that finds humor where you might least expect it. (Dargis)

'SWEET LAND' (PG, 110 minutes) There's a tartness at the center of Ali Selim's sentimental tale of the prejudice faced by a German mail-order bride (Elizabeth Reaser) who arrives in 1920 Minnesota to marry a Norwegian farmer (Tim Guinee) she has never seen. The film's guileless, heartfelt style veers perilously close to corny at times, but the superb cast dares you to mock. Lovingly filmed in glorious 35-millimeter, the movie celebrates an old-fashioned love born of backbreaking work and shared difficulties, while the endless wheat fields and magnificent skyline seem reason enough to endure. (Catsoulis)

'THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE: THE BEGINNING' (R, 84 minutes) A prequel to a remake of a 1974 movie that spawned several sequels and numberless copycats, this hateful trash begs the question: how many chainsaw massacres can one state possibly contain? (Lee)

'TIDELAND' (R, 120 minutes) Terry Gilliam, usually bold in his explorations of the boundary between fantasy and reality, here stumbles into a different frontier, the one that separates the merely bad from the utterly inexcusable. (Scott)

Film Series

THE JAPANESE FILM: A TRIBUTE TO DONALD RICHIE (Through Oct. 28) The Museum of the Moving Image honors Mr. Richie, the American-born screenwriter and film historian, with a two-weekend program of his selections and his own short films. This weekend's features include Akira Kurosawa's ''Rashomon'' (1951), the classic about one crime from four points of view, and Yasujiro Ozu's ''Tokyo Story'' (1953), about an elderly couple visiting their grown children in the big city. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Anita Gates)

POLICE PARIS NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL: FROM THE STREETS TO THE SCREEN (Through tomorrow) The French Institute Alliance Francaise is sponsoring a three-day series of French films written and directed by former police officers. This weekend's features include Claude Zidi's comedy sequel ''Ripoux 3'' (2003), about old police department pals on a money laundering case in Paris's Chinatown; Alain Corneau's drama ''Le Cousin'' (1997), about a narcotics officer; and Olivier Marchal's ''36 Quai des Orfevres'' (2004), starring Daniel Auteuil and Gerard Depardieu as ambitious cops competing for a promotion. Florence Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6160; $9. (Gates)

PORDENONE SILENT FILM WEEKEND (Through Sunday) BAMcinematek's four-day selection of highlights from the annual Pordenone silent-movie festival in Italy continues. Features include a Lillian Gish double feature, ''Enoch Arden'' (1915) and ''The Lily and the Rose'' (1915); ''The Triumph of the Rat'' (1926), starring Ivor Novello as a jewel thief trying to go straight in high society; and Anthony Asquith's masterpiece ''A Cottage on Dartmoor'' (1929), about a small-town romantic triangle. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

OTTO PREMINGER: NOTORIOUS (Through Oct. 29) The Museum of Modern Arts's nine-film retrospective of Preminger's work (he would have turned 100 this year) continues this weekend with three films. ''Laura'' (1944) is his classic Manhattan murder mystery. ''Carmen Jones'' (1954) is an African-American musical version of Bizet's opera. And ''Skidoo'' (1968) is an odd little comedy starring Jackie Gleason and Carol Channing as car-wash owners. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

SOROS/SUNDANCE DOCUMENTARY FUND: A 10th-ANNIVERSARY FILM SERIES (Through Oct. 29) This program of 19 international documentaries that deal with human rights and social injustice is sponsored by the Open Society Institute and the Sundance Institute. It begins on Thursday at Film Forum. Opening-day features include Mandy Jacobson and Karmen Jelincic's ''Calling the Ghosts: A Story About Rape, War and Women'' (1996), the story of two Bosnian women in a Serbian camp; and Elizabeth Barret's ''Stranger With a Camera'' (2000), about the murder of a Canadian filmmaker. 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110; $5.50. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

BETTIE SERVEERT (Wednesday) Bettie Serveert -- a Dutch band led by Carol van Dijk, who sings in fluent English -- has persevered since the early 1990's on the collegiate-rock circuit. Ms. van Dijk writes and sings observant songs about romantic ups and downs, continually expanding a musical vocabulary that now stretches from pop tunefulness to indie-rock guitar furor to the easy-rolling incantations of Van Morrison. At 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Jon Pareles)

FRANK BLACK (Tonight and Monday) Don't expect those baby-crying-in-hell screams that Frank Black (as Black Francis) relied on to spike his Pixies songs with terror and raw sexual angst. As a solo artist, he has been veering into gentle and reflective, if sometimes cheerlessly dry, territory. His most recent two albums, ''Honeycomb'' and ''Fast Man Raider Man'' (Back Porch) -- both underrated -- were recorded in Nashville with master country-soul session men like Spooner Oldham and Steve Cropper. Also on the bill is his longtime New York opening act, the gravelly-voiced grumbler Reid Paley. Tonight at 9, Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505, warsawconcerts.com; Monday at 9 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $25. (Ben Sisario)

ROSANNE CASH (Tonight) Always an introspective songwriter, Ms. Cash has said that the songs on her latest album, ''Black Cadillac'' (Capitol) -- about the deaths, in quick succession, of her father, Johnny Cash; her stepmother, June Carter Cash; and her mother, Vivian Liberto Cash Distin -- represent a shift to even deeper and more personal material. She plays an acoustic set of songs from ''Black Cadillac'' and throughout her career. At 8:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7000, carnegiehall.org; $38 to $43. (Sisario)

CELTIC FIDDLE FESTIVAL (Sunday) Three master fiddlers offer a collaborative primer of three branches of the Celtic style. Kevin Burke, born in London to Irish parents, plays in the ornamental Sligo style of Ireland; Christian Lemaitre represents Brittany, France's Celtic region. Andre Brunet, a young Canadian player, has the daunting task of replacing Johnny Cunningham, a pillar of the international Celtic scene who began touring with Mr. Burke and Mr. Lemaitre in the early 90's, and who died three years ago at 46. They are accompanied by the English guitarist Ged Foley. At 7 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 545-7536, symphonyspace.org or heartheworld.org; $27, $15 for students. (Sisario)

CHEETAH GIRLS (Tonight and tomorrow) Behold the new teenage pop: it is female, its reference points are sexed-up strutters like the Pussycat Dolls and Christina Aguilera, and it has the Disney seal of approval. The Cheetah Girls began as a Disney Channel movie, and the group's latest album (the soundtrack to the sequel) opened in the Top 5. Also on the bill is Vanessa Anne Hudgens, one of the never-frowning stars of ''High School Musical,'' the smash Disney Channel movie whose soundtrack is the best-selling album this year. Tonight at 7, Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000, nassaucoliseum.com; tomorrow at 4 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $25.50 to $42. (Sisario)

DEICIDE (Tonight) For all its militancy -- lyrics vilifying Christianity, studded breastplates, beefy arms -- this Florida band makes unremarkable meat-and-potatoes death metal: buzz-saw guitar themes in minor modes give way to fast, narrow two-beat drum thrashing. Glen Benton, the leader and demagogue, uses the genre's generic low growl; it's business as usual, no big deal. (He also prefers to present himself as being against organized religion rather than, uh, pro-Satan.) With Nachtmystium, Daath, Embalmer, Desolation, Annunaki and Dimentianon. At 8, Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $25. (Ben Ratliff)

FLOETRY (Wednesday and Thursday) Cooing melodies meet socially conscious rapping in this English duo, which allies a rapper, Natalie Stewart, and a singer, Marsha Ambrosius. They boast, preach positive thinking and delve into love, articulating uncertainties along with lust. With Emily King. At 9 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $32 in advance, $36 at the door. (Pareles)

THE FRAY (Wednesday and Thursday) This Denver band has the No. 1 song on iTunes with ''How to Save a Life,'' a gushy piano ballad that, like all the Counting Crows, Wallflowers, Coldplay and Keane songs whose template it studiously follows, features a man meekly apologizing to the woman who dumps him. (Maybe she grew tired of creepy let's-be-friends lines like, ''I would have stayed up with you all night.'') At 7:30 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; sold out. (Sisario)

GOOGOOSH (Tomorrow) In pre-revolutionary Iran, Googoosh was Iran's Barbra Streisand, Linda Ronstadt, Cher, Edith Piaf and Madonna rolled into one: not just a magnificent singer but also a fashion trailblazer and a symbol of modernity. Her songs were romantic, not political, and while they drew on Western styles, they held onto both the fervor of Persian love poetry and the sliding, quivering, impassioned phrasing of traditional Persian music. With Mehrdad. At 9 p.m., the Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $54.50 to $254.50. (Pareles)

GOTAN PROJECT (Wednesday) Tango meets late-night chill-out electronica in the music of this stylish Paris trio, and thanks to tasteful restraint and some studio finesse, the gimmick works. Its latest album, ''Lunatico'' (XL), expands the palette a bit further with guest appearances by the mariachi-and-surf-guitar Arizona band Calexico and some rap. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $30 in advance, $35 at the door. (Sisario)

JOLIE HOLLAND (Tonight) With a playful quiver of a voice, like a countryfied Billie Holiday, and a junk-shop aesthetic that mingles brassy swing with Appalachian folk, Ms. Holland sings charming and deceptively childlike songs: ''Crush in the Ghetto,'' on her new album, ''Springtime Can Kill You'' (Anti-), finds her overdressed on a bus ride home from a one-night stand. With David Dondero. At 7:30, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $15. (Sisario)

* THE KILLERS (Tuesday and Wednesday) Big-league arrogance is nothing new in a rising rock band, but not many have the songwriting chops to back it up the way the Killers do. Two years ago this Las Vegas quartet became instant stars with ''Hot Fuss,'' a hit-packed album whose adrenalized update of new-wave pop cloaked some of the blase cynicism of its lyrics (''Dreams aren't what they used to be''). This month the band released ''Sam's Town'' (Island/Def Jam), which is grandiose and aloof where its predecessor was sharp and hungry, though it still has a few songs you won't easily get out of your head. With Red Romance. At 8 p.m., the Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; sold out. (Sisario)

MARITIME (Tomorrow) Founded by former members of the Promise Ring and the Dismemberment Plan, two bands that in the mid-90's did as much as any to establish the emo sound, Maritime plays understated and effortlessly catchy songs with minimal touches of acoustic guitar and new-wave keyboards. With Bound Stems, the Secret Life of Sofia and Heather Duby. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sisario)

* MILTON NASCIMENTO (Monday through Thursday) A somewhat rare club appearance by Mr. Nascimento, one of Brazil's greatest songwriters as well as a singer of gentle and entrancing purity. His band will include Gastao Villeroy on bass, Wilson Lopes on guitar, Kiko Continentino at the piano and Lincoln Cheib on the drums. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $55 at tables, $35 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Sisario)

* JOHNNY PACHECO TRIBUTE (Tonight) The Fania All-Stars, the great salsa mafia that ruled New York Latin music in the 70's, pays tribute to its founder and musical director, the Dominican flutist and bandleader Johnny Pacheco, who is celebrating 50 years of making music. The lineup spans several generations of Latin stars: Bobby Valentin, Ismael Miranda, Jimmy Bosch, Roberto Roena, Papo Lucca, Adalberto Santiago, Yomo Toro, Nicky Marrero, Eddie Montalvo and others. At 8, the Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $69.50 to $109.50. (Sisario)

SCISSOR SISTERS (Tomorrow) You would be forgiven if you didn't know that the Scissor Sisters were one of the most popular New York City bands in the world: despite Top 10 success in Britain with its almost parodically falsetto-heavy disco-soul, the group has struggled for attention at home. Its main songwriters, the singer Jake Shears and the bassist Babbydaddy, can crank out some very entertaining dance-floor anthems, but as its recently released second album, ''Ta-Dah'' (Universal), makes clear, this sound can go on forever without much development, and the Bee Gees and George Michael wrote better songs. With Small Sins. At 8 p.m., the Grand Ballroom at Manhattan Center, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; sold out. (Sisario)

SIERRA LEONE'S REFUGEE ALL STARS (Tuesday) These six musicians, ranging from a teenage rapper to a guitarist in his 50's, fled civil war in their homeland for a refugee camp in rural Guinea. They formed a band there four years ago, and tell their stories in songs tinged with soul and reggae. A documentary about them, made by Zach Niles and Banker White, will be shown at 7:30 p.m., and the band will go on at 9. S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sisario)

PAUL SIMON (Tomorrow) At 64, Mr. Simon, who in the 1960's conquered the dorm rooms of the world with a sweetened, sharpened revision of coffeehouse folk, and in the 80's virtually created the idea of the world-music crossover, this year released one of his most adventurous albums, ''Surprise'' (Warner Brothers). Produced by Brian Eno (David Bowie, Talking Heads, U2) along with Mr. Simon, it accompanies his voice with bubbly and slightly disorienting electronics, and the two elements interact as discrete, parallel planes. With Jerry Douglas, a master of the bluegrass Dobro. At 7:30 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $39.50 to $129.50. (Sisario)

PATTI SMITH (Tonight) Fresh from her appearance at CBGB as the club's eulogist -- singing her own otherworldly rhapsodies, like ''Birdland,'' as well as raw-throated punk-rock classics like the Dead Boys' ''Sonic Reducer'' -- Ms. Smith heads to another, quieter New York institution, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, to celebrate heroes of French culture. Baudelaire, Rimbaud and Juliet Greco are among those she and a circle of friends are to honor with poetry and music, but the focus of the evening will be Joan of Arc, specifically Jules Bastien-Lepage's enormous and endlessly mesmerizing 1879 painting of her, in the Met's permanent collection. At 8, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $40. (Sisario)

THE STRAWBS (Tomorrow) Led by David Cousins, the Strawbs were part of the British trad-rock movement of the late 1960's and 70's, reaching back to modal Celtic melodies and the lore of ancient ballads. This version of the band is unplugged, with Mr. Cousins, Dave Lambert and Chas Cronk. At 7 and 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $30. (Pareles)

ELAINE STRITCH (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) The third autobiographical go-round by this feisty 81-year-old legend features 10 astutely chosen new songs (including the theme from ''The Sopranos'') performed with verve and humor. But her between-song patter finds her at a loss to come up with amusing or enlightening new stories from her glittering show business life. (Through Nov. 4.) At 8:45 p.m., Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $125; dinner required. (Stephen Holden)

* SUISHOU NO FUNE (Tuesday and Thursday) This Tokyo group, whose name means ship of crystal, carries on a decades-long tradition in underground Japanese rock of immersion in both tranquil, spooky psychedelia and rumbling sonic chaos. Like Fushitsusha, its earliest ancestor on the Japanese scene, Suishou no Fune is transcendent in either extreme. Tuesday at 9 p.m., with Malkuth and Titan, Club Midway, 25 Avenue B, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 253-2595, clubmidway.com; $8 in advance, $10 at the door. Thursday at 9 p.m., with Magik Markers, Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $10. (Sisario)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

AHMED ABDULLAH'S EBONIC TONES (Tomorrow) On the recent album ''Tara's Song'' (Tum), the trumpeter Ahmed Abdullah led this ensemble in an exploration of themes by Thelonious Monk and Ornette Coleman, among others. Mr. Abdullah reconvenes the group at Sista's Place, the fiercely independent Brooklyn arts space that he partly oversees. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Sista's Place, 456 Nostrand Avenue, at Jefferson Avenue, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, (718) 756-7600; sistasplace.org; cover, $25 in advance, $30 tomorrow. (Nate Chinen)

FRANK CARLBERG QUINTET (Tomorrow) Literary themes often provide inspiration for Frank Carlberg, a pianist and composer; here he will present a song cycle set to poems by Robert Creeley, with collaborators including the tenor saxophonist Chris Cheek and the vocalist Christine Correa. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

ANAT COHEN QUARTET (Tonight) As part of the ''Harlem in the Himalayas'' series at the Rubin Museum of Art, the clarinetist and saxophonist Anat Cohen performs music loosely inspired by the Tibetan art in the museum's collection. She also introduces material from a forthcoming album, with Jason Lindner on piano, Omer Avital on bass and Daniel Freedman on drums. At 7, Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, Ext. 344, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)

* MARILYN CRISPELL (Tomorrow) Ms. Crispell, a pianist equally celebrated for aggressive atonality and delicate lyricism, reunites with the bassist Mark Helias and the drummer Paul Motian, the same team as on her superb 2004 album ''Storyteller'' (ECM). There's a welcome X factor, too: the tenor saxophonist Joe Lovano, a musician capable of shifting from a murmur to a shriek, though he's most comfortable somewhere between the two. At 8 p.m., Miller Theater, Columbia University, 116th Street and Broadway, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheatre.com; $25. (Chinen)

EDDIE DANIELS 65TH BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION (Tonight through Sunday night) The clarinetist Eddie Daniels just reached standard retirement age, though he shows little interest in laying back. Along with Joe Locke on vibraphone, David Finck on bass and Joe La Barbera on drums, he revisits music from a new album, ''Mean What You Say'' (IPO), and records material for a forthcoming live release. At 8:30 and 10:30, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $32.50, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

* KALAPARUSHA AHRA DIFDA/REGGIE NICHOLSON (Tonight) The New York chapter of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians presents one of its sporadic concerts, featuring ensembles led by Mr. Difda, the founding member and multireedist formerly known as Maurice McIntyre, and Mr. Nicholson, a drummer with experience both in and out of the A.A.C.M. scene. At 8, Community Church of New York, 40 East 35th Street, Manhattan, (212) 683-4988, aacm-newyork.com; $25; students, $12. (Chinen)

ERIK FRIEDLANDER/SHANIR BLUMENKRANZ (Tuesday) ''Masada Book Two,'' a body of John Zorn compositions, provides fodder for Mr. Friedlander, a cellist, in a solo recital. Mr. Blumenkranz, who plays oud, leads a quintet with Mr. Friedlander, the bassist Greg Cohen and the percussionists Satoshi Takeishi and Cyro Baptista. At 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

JIM HALL TRIO (Tonight through Sunday night) Jim Hall's economical style and deep harmonic command have made him a quiet hero of jazz guitar; he leads his regular trio with the bassist Steve LaSpina and the drummer Terry Clarke. At 9 and 11, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JOEL HARRISON (Monday) As a singer as well as a guitarist, Mr. Harrison leans on American roots traditions. Here he focuses exclusively on music by the drummer Paul Motian, with a group he calls his string choir, comprising the violinist Christian Howes, the violist Alan Grubner and the cellist Dana Leong. At 9 and 10:15 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

BILL MAYS TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) An accomplished mainstream trio, featuring the articulate pianist Bill Mays and the fluent rhythm team of Martin Wind on bass and Tim Horner on drums. At 7:30 and 9:15 p.m., , Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MEPHISTA (Thursday) Texture and tonality are flexible elements in this exploratory trio, with Sylvie Courvoisier on piano, Susie Ibarra on drums and percussion, and Ikue Mori on electronics. At 9 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; tonicnyc.com cover, $10. (Chinen)

JOHN PATITUCCI TRIO (Tonight through Sunday) Best recognized lately as the bassist of choice for Wayne Shorter, John Patitucci has several strong albums to his name; ''Line by Line'' (Concord), his newest, confirms his unmistakable gift for light-handed fusions. The album's most valuable players, the guitarist Adam Rogers and the drummer Brian Blade, are appearing with him. At 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30; $25 on Sunday. (Chinen)

MADELEINE PEYROUX/ODETTA (Wednesday) Ms. Peyroux is a coyly reticent songbook crier whose songbook includes Leonard Cohen as well as Johnny Mercer, as she demonstrates on a likable new album called ''Half the Perfect World'' (Rounder). Odetta may as well be her polar opposite: regal and unequivocal, with a voice that emits a deep and certain authority. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, (212) 840-2824, the-townhall-nyc.org; $48.50 and $62.50. (Chinen)

ANDREW RATHBUN QUARTET (Wednesday) Andrew Rathbun is a sure-footed tenor and soprano saxophonist, but it is as a composer that he makes his mark, especially when his music is entrusted to improvisers like his fellow tenor player George Garzone, a featured guest here. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

BOBBY SANABRIA (Tonight) Mr. Sanabria, a powerhouse percussionist and bandleader, tackles music by the Brazilian composer Hermeto Pascoal, the rock iconoclast Frank Zappa and several members of his big band, which he leads here. At 8, TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street, between Greenwich and West Streets, (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $25; students, $15. (Chinen)

ANTONIO SANCHEZ TRIO (Monday) Antonio Sanchez, a sensitive and dynamic drummer who has distinguished himself in groups led by the pianist Danilo Perez and the guitarist Pat Metheny, leads one of his own with two close compatriots: Miguel Zenon, on alto saxophone, and Scott Colley, on bass. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

JENNY SCHEINMAN (Tuesday) Ms. Scheinman is that rare jazz violinist who embraces her instrument's folksier side without making concessions to genre. She performs next week with the clarinetist Doug Weiselman, the bassist Matt Penman and the drummer Kenny Wollesen. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

TYSHAWN SOREY'S OBLIQUE/DAN WEISS TRIO (Tomorrow) Tyshawn Sorey is an often explosive drummer, but he brings some compositional subtlety to his main ensemble, which includes the alto saxophonist Loren Stillman and the trombonist Ben Gerstein. Dan Weiss, also a drummer, is well versed in Indian classical music, as well as in rock and modern jazz; he plays a later set with his frequent colleagues the pianist Jacob Sacks and the bassist Thomas Morgan. At 8 and 10 p.m., Rose Live Music, 345 Grand Street, near Marcy Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-0069, newlanguages.org; $10. (Chinen)

* TOMASZ STANKO QUARTET (Wednesday and Thursday) The Polish trumpeter Tomasz Stanko is one of Europe's most heralded jazz musicians, and he has roundly earned his accolades. ''Lontano'' (ECM) is his third album with a gifted younger rhythm section made up of the pianist Marcin Wasilewski, the bassist Slawomir Kurkiewicz and the drummer Michal Miskiewicz; it's a shimmering, gently abstract and warmly luminescent work, likely to sound even better in the flesh. (Through Oct. 28.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

THIRD WORLD LOVE (Monday, Wednesday and Thursday) African and Middle Eastern rhythmic concepts provide the thrumming heart of this collective, consisting of Avishai Cohen on trumpet, Omer Avital on bass and oud, Yonatan Avishai on piano and Daniel Freedman on drums. Monday at 7 p.m., Knitting Factory Old Office, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; cover, $8. Wednesday and Thursday at 10 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, fatcatjazz.com; cover, $20. (Chinen)

BENNIE WALLACE (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Wallace, a tenor saxophonist, offers a preliminary taste of ''Disorder at the Border,'' an album in tribute to the original tenor hero, Coleman Hawkins. His nine-piece band includes fellow veterans like the alto saxophonist Jerry Dodgion and the drummer Alvin Queen. (Through Oct. 29.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen)

MICHAEL WEISS QUINTET (Tuesday through Thursday) Michael Weiss has ample experience with the Village Vanguard piano, though he usually plays it as a sideman. Next week he showcases some of his own thoughtful compositions with a good post-bop group featuring the alto and soprano saxophonist Steve Wilson. Through Oct. 29 at 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

BUSTER WILLIAMS AND SOMETHING MORE (Tonight and tomorrow night) The stalwart bass playing of Buster Williams provides an anchor but not the focal point of this dynamic chamber-jazz quartet, with Steve Wilson on alto saxophone, Danny Grissett on piano and Lenny White on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)

GERALD WILSON AND THE JUILLIARD JAZZ ORCHESTRA (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Wilson, the venerable composer and arranger, last appeared in New York as a guest conductor of the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra. This club engagement is less of an occasion, but it should place his gift as an educator in clearer focus. (Through Oct. 29.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

MIGUEL ZENON QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Miguel Zenon, a serious-minded alto saxophonist and composer from Puerto Rico, leads his excellent working band, with Luis Perdomo on piano, Hans Glawischnig on bass and Henry Cole on drums. At 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; members, $10. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'LA BOHEME' (Tonight and Wednesday) Updated to the years around World War I, this is one of the New York City Opera's best productions. A new cast has taken over for the rest of this run, which ends on Wednesday, including two singers new to the company, Inna Dukach as Mimi, and Robert Gardner as Marcello. Dinyar Vania will sing Rodolfo, Dana Beth Miller is the Musetta, Kyungmook Yum is Schaunard, and Eric Jordan is Colline. Steven Mosteller conducts. Tonight at 8, Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $66 to $125 tonight, $25 to $125 on Wednesday. (Anne Midgette)

'CARMEN' (Sunday and Thursday) Rinat Shaham, who made her company debut as Zerlina, is a small singer for Carmen; worse, the New York City Opera's production seems to have veiled her spark, rendering her a mere stereotype. The high point of this cast is Latonia Moore as a radiant-voiced Micaela. On Thursday night, a new cast takes over: Vanessa Cariddi, Kerri Marcinko and Daesan No will make their company debuts as Carmen, Micaela and Escamillo, and Gary Thor Wedow will replace Ari Pelto in the pit. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $25 tickets remaining on Sunday, $25 to $125 on Thursday. (Midgette)

'CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA'/'PAGLIACCI' (Tonight, Monday and Thursday) Even for its war horses, the Metropolitan Opera is pulling out some big vocal stops. Of interest in this classic double bill is the appearance of Salvatore Licitra, a tenor who has the vocal goods but has not always fully shown them, as Leoncavallo's Canio, alongside the Nedda of the luminous Patricia Racette, and the always dramatic Maria Guleghina as Santuzza in ''Cavalleria.'' Marco Armiliato conducts. Tonight and Thursday night at 8, Monday night at 7:30, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $275. (Midgette)

'COSI FAN TUTTE' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) Mozart's fantastic battle of the sexes arrives in a New York City Opera production, with a cast that includes Julianna Di Giacomo as Fiordiligi; Sandra Piques Eddy as Dorabella; Ryan MacPherson as Ferrando; Kyle Pfortmiller as Guglielmo and James Maddalena as Don Alfonso. Julius Rudel returns to its podium for this production. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m.; Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $25 tickets remaining tomorrow, $25 to $125 on Tuesday. (Allan Kozinn)

'THE ELIXIR OF LOVE' (Tomorrow) The director Jonathan Miller has created an all-American version of Donizetti's ''Elisir d'Amore,'' transposing the action to a vintage roadside diner to create something that's dramatically consistent but also dramatically slight. Yet ''Elisir'' is a delightful opera, and it's decently sung by Anna Skibinsky, an Adina with a little ribbon of a voice; John Tessier, an honest, solid, if North American Nemorino; and especially Jan Opalach, who has a lot of fun and sounds very good as Dulcamara. George Manahan's conducting is not exactly Italianate. At 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $25 to $125. (Midgette)

'LA GIOCONDA' (Tomorrow) The Metropolitan Opera's barn-burning, old-fashioned production has a Saturday matinee, still with Violeta Urmana in the title role, and now offering Olga Savova as Laura and Eduardo Villa as Enzo. At 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; remaining tickets, $42 to $375. (Bernard Holland)

* 'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) The abstract staging of Anthony Minghella's visually beautiful production of ''Madama Butterfly'' deftly employs movable screens, billowing fabrics, stylized costumes and, most daringly, a life-size puppet manipulated by three black-clad puppeteers to portray Butterfly's 3-year-old son. Vocally, neither of the leads, the earthy-voiced soprano Cristina Gallardo-Domas as Butterfly, and the robustly Italianate tenor Marcello Giordani as Lieutenant Pinkerton, is ideal. But they do honorable work. Asher Fisch conducts. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Anthony Tommasini)

'RIGOLETTO' (Wednesday) Otto Schenk's grimly realistic production of Verdi's ''Rigoletto,'' will provide a showcase for a veritable night of debuts at the house. The German soprano Ekaterina Siurina as Gilda, the Malta-born lyric tenor Joseph Calleja as the Duke of Mantua, and the Austrian conductor Friedrich Haider are all making their company debuts. In the title role the veteran baritone Juan Pons should be a steadying influence on his new colleagues. At 8 p.m., the Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $375. (Tommasini)

Classical Music

* ALARM WILL SOUND (Tonight and tomorrow night) Even in the lively world of new-music ensembles, few groups assemble programs as imaginatively, or perform with as much zest, as Alarm Will Sound. For its residency at the Kitchen, the group is performing works by Harrison Birtwistle, Benedict Mason and Dennis DeSantis, one of several composers who also perform in the group, as well as arrangements of Conlon Nancarrow's player-piano pieces and a group of rhythmically complex works from the 14th century. At 8:30, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org; $12. (Kozinn)

AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Sunday) Leon Botstein's orchestra takes a religious turn with a program called ''The Art of the Psalm.'' It includes pieces by Bruckner, Reger, Schreker, Zemlinsky and Liszt. At 3 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, americansymphony.org; $27 to $55. (Holland)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday) Robert White, the Irish tenor, is the George Hamilton of the vocal world: an unbowed, ageless veteran. This weekend Bargemusic is celebrating his birthday. (The organizers aren't saying, but it's his 65th.) They are presenting songs, works for piano trio and a few pieces that combine both. Mr. White will sing; the composer Lowell Liebermann will be the pianist (the program includes two of his works); Mark Peskanov, Bargemusic's president and executive director, and Darrett Adkins will join in on violin and cello. Tonight, before the celebration begins, the cellist Robert Cohen and the pianist Paul Ostrovsky offer a varied program, from Mozart to Bruch. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday afternoon at 4, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students. (Midgette)

* CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Tonight and Sunday) Following its successful gala opening concert, the Chamber Music Society begins its regular season under its dynamic new artistic directors (the pianist Wu Han and the cellist David Finckel) with the first in a series of programs titled ''Through Brahms: A Path From Schubert to Kirchner.'' The first program offers works by Schubert, Mendelssohn and Schumann and culminates in Brahms's lushly scored and elegant String Sextet in G. Tonight at 8 and Sunday at 5 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; $28 to $50. (Tommasini)

* CHOIR AND ORCHESTRA OF ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA (Wednesday) This opening concert in Kent Tritle's superb Sacred Music in a Sacred Space series includes Handel's Coronation Anthem, ''The King Shall Rejoice''; Carl Philip Emanuel Bach's ''Magnificat''; and Randall Thompson's exquisite setting of texts from Isaiah, ''The Peaceable Kingdom.'' The soloists are Serena Benedetti, soprano; Sasha Cooke, mezzo-soprano; Oliver Mercer, tenor; and Jesse Blumberg, baritone. At 8 p.m., Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue, at 84th Street, (212) 288-2520, saintignatiusloyola.org; $35 to $45, and $25 for students and 65+. (Kozinn)

BEN HEPPNER (Wednesday) If any tenor has the voice to command a vocal recital in Carnegie Hall it is Mr. Heppner, who sings Grieg, Sibelius, Tchaikovsky and Tosti. The pianist is Thomas Muraco. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800; $25 to $82. (Holland)

* KIROV ORCHESTRA (Monday and Tuesday) Last spring Valery Gergiev began his survey of the complete 15 symphonies by Shostakovich, part of Lincoln Center's tribute to the composer for the centennial of his birth. The series continues this week with Mr. Gergiev conducting the Kirov Orchestra of the Maryinsky Theater in Nos. 11 (''The Year 1905'') and 6 on Monday night, and Nos. 12 (''The Year 1917'') and 14 on Tuesday. Mr. Gergiev's spring performances were by turns volatile, bitter, searing and darkly beautiful. Expect the same. At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $35 to $69. (Tommasini)

BRAD LUBMAN'S ELECTRIC FUZZ (Tonight) The American Composers Orchestra is looking into the world of composer-performers this season, presenting several composers and their ensembles at Joe's Pub. In this installment Brad Lubman leads Electric Fuzz, which draws on everything from contemporary classical and electronic styles to jazz, klezmer and world music. The program includes works by Mr. Lubman; collaborations between him and Lauren Radnofsky, the ensemble's cellist; and scores by David Lang and Pierre Boulez. At 7, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, americancomposers.org; $20. (Kozinn)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday) There are two more chances this weekend to see Sergei Eisenstein's 1938 cinematic masterpiece ''Alexander Nevsky'' at Avery Fisher Hall, with Prokofiev's pulsating score played live by the Philharmonic under its dynamic young associate conductor, Xian Zhang. On Thursday the British-born conductor Jonathan Nott, a champion of contemporary music, comes to the Philharmonic for a program that juxtaposes two works by Beethoven, the seldom-heard ''King Stephen'' Overture and his Fifth Symphony, with two 20th-century scores, Gyorgy Ligeti's atmospheric ''Lontano'' and Bartok's rhapsodic Piano Concerto No. 1. The pianist Peter Serkin is the soloist. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $28 to $96. (Tommasini)

NHK SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Monday) The NHK from Japan gives the music of Toru Takemitsu pride of place in a program that includes the Bartok Third Piano Concerto and the two ''Daphnis et Chloe'' suites of Ravel. Vladimir Ashkenazy conducts the NHK and the Dessoff Symphonic Choir, and Helene Grimaud is the pianist. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $26 to $87. (Holland)

IVO POGORELICH (Thursday) This iconoclastic Croatian pianist has struck some listeners as brilliantly original, and others as purely perverse, but in any case, his interpretations of the great 19th-century keyboard works are unlike anyone else's. He appears here this week with a hefty program that includes sonatas by Chopin (No. 3), Rachmaninoff (No. 2) and Scriabin (No. 4). At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $60. (Kozinn)

STEVE REICH (Tomorrow and Sunday) Carnegie Hall's contribution to the citywide festivities for Steve Reich's 70th birthday are in full swing this weekend. The extravaganza includes a concert tomorrow with the Kronos Quartet and the guitarist Pat Metheny, performing ''Electric Counterpoint'' and ''Different Trains.'' Then the birthday boy and the ensemble he founded, Steve Reich and Musicians, will join Synergy Vocals to play ''Music for 18 Musicians.'' On Sunday Mr. Reich will perform ''Cello Counterpoint'' (with Maya Beiser), ''Piano/Video Phase'' and ''Drumming.'' He'll also present the world premiere of the ''Daniel Variations,'' written for Daniel Pearl, the Wall Street Journal reporter murdered in Pakistan. The other performers include David Cossin on percussion and video. Brad Lubman conducts. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Stern Auditorium, Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $28 to $58 tomorrow; sold out on Sunday. (Vivien Schweitzer)

* RIVERSIDE SYMPHONY (Wednesday) The impressive Riverside Symphony, conducted by George Rothman, opens its 26th season with a typically intriguing lineup. Stravinsky's eclectic Capriccio for Piano and Orchestra precedes the early Symphony No. 1 by the living French master Henri Dutilleux, a composer this orchestra has championed. Two lesser-known Prokofiev works conclude the program: the Chant Symphonique and a suite from the ballet score ''The Prodigal Son.'' At 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, riversidesymphony.org; $30 to $50; students, half-price. (Tommasini)

ANDRAS SCHIFF AND CAPPELLA ANDREA BARCA (Sunday and Wednesday) With this fine Hungarian pianist and his ensemble, the Mozart onslaught continues, but here at least with some very skilled musical warriors. On Sunday there will be two concertos and the Symphony in G minor (No. 40). Note also Mr. Schiff's all-Mozart solo recital on Wednesday at the Metropolitan Museum. Sunday at 2 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; Wednesday at 8 p.m., (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $60. (Holland)

SPHINX CHAMBER ORCHESTRA/HARLEM QUARTET (Tuesday) The goal is to get black and Hispanic students involved with classical music. A continuing result, or a part of it, can be heard in the Carnegie Hall performance by winners of the Sphinx competition. The winners -- as soloists, members of the Sphinx Chamber Orchestra or as the Harlem Quartet (in its Carnegie debut) -- play Mozart, Marsalis and a range of music in between. The orchestra is an outgrowth of the Sphinx Organization, a 10-year-old nonprofit that has provided scholarships and instruments to thousands of students, and its last Carnegie gala was said to be first-rate. At 6 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20 to $80. (Midgette)

YSAE QUARTET (Sunday) This string quartet, formed more than two decades ago by students at the Paris Conservatory, returns to the Frick Collection's music room with a program that includes Haydn's Quartet in F (Op. 77, No. 2); Debussy's Quartet in G minor; and Schumann's Quartet in A. The concert by the Ysae can also be heard free via a sound system in the Garden Court. At 5 p.m., 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 547-0715, frick.org; $25. (Schweitzer)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

* AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) The company's more venturesome fall season -- compared with the parade of evening-length story ballets at the Metropolitan Opera House in the late spring and early summer -- continues with mixed-repertory programs, most of them lively and interesting, even if there is only one new ballet, by Jorma Elo. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, tomorrow at 2 p.m., Tuesday through Thursday at 7:30 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212 or abt.org; $26 to $93. (John Rockwell)

ANEMONE DANCE THEATER (Thursday) In ''Mikros Kosmos,'' the choreographers Sara Baird and Erin Dudley blend Butoh-inspired dance with video projections, sculptural costumes and set designs and music by Kenneth Kirschner to journey through treetops and icy Arctic and monsoon-drenched landscapes. (Through Nov. 4.) At 8 p.m., Center for Remembering & Sharing (CRS), 123 Fourth Avenue, near 12th Street, East Villlage, (212) 352-3101; $18; $15 for students and 65+. (Jennifer Dunning)

BALLET HISPANICO (Tonight) These cool-hot dancers will perform ''Corazon Al-Andaluz,'' by the Catalan choreographer Ramon Oller, to music by Jose Luis Rodriguez, and a suite of dances called ''Duets B.'' At 8, Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University, Route 25A, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100 or tillescenter.org; $40 to $65;$37 to $62 for 65+. (Dunning)

CAREER TRANSITION FOR DANCERS' 21ST ANNIVERSARY JUBILEE (Monday) How many chances do you get to support a good cause, honor Chita Rivera and be in the same theater with Liza Minnelli, the Thunderbird American Indian Dancers and Mr. Wiggles? Enough said. At 7 p.m. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, citycenter.org; $45 to $125. (Claudia La Rocco)

YANIRA CASTRO + COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Castro's ''(fetus)twin fet(us)twin'' journeys through installations in a catacombslike performance space as a way to explore loss, union and physical separation. At 7 and 9, the Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101 or yaniracastrocompany.org; $20. (Dunning)

* BORIS CHARMATZ AND DIMITRI CHAMBLAS (Thursday) Mr. Charmatz is a clever French conceptualist, here joining forces with another dancer-choreographer, Mr. Chamblas, for a piece set inside a boxing ring. (Through Oct. 28.) At 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or danspaceproject.org; $15. (Rockwell)

H. T. CHEN & DANCERS (Tonight through Sunday) Mr. Chen serves up morsels and whole dishes from his repertory past, present and future in this installment of ''Teahouse Performances.'' At 7 p.m., Mulberry Street Theater, 70 Mulberry Street, Chinatown, (212) 349-0126; front row, $25; general admission, $15; students and 65+, $10. (Dunning)

CHEZ BUSHWICK PRESENTS (Tonight and tomorrow night) This hot new producing group will show new dance and theater by its resident artists, including Jonah Bokaer, who founded Chez Bushwick, and Moving Theater. At 7:30 p.m., Abrons Arts Center, Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 598-0400, henrystreet.org/arts; $15. (Dunning)

DALIA CARELLA DANCE COLLECTIVE (Thursday) A Middle Eastern dancer, choreographer and teacher, Ms. Carella will present ''Cabaret Macabre,'' dances drawn from French and German cabaret of the 1920's and 30's and filled with Halloween images. (Through Oct. 29.) Thursday at 7 p.m., New Lafayette, 54 Franklin Street, near Lafayette Street, TriBeCa, (212) 714-4600 or daliacarella.com; $40, including dinner. (Dunning)

DUMBO DANCE FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday) More than 80 choreographers and dance companies, of just about every artistic persuasion and level of experience, will perform in 15 different programs in this sprawling but oddly cozy annual extravaganza. Tonight from 7 to 10, tomorrow from 2 to 4 p.m., 5 to 7 p.m. and 8 to 10 p.m., at the John Ryan Theater, 25 Jay Street, Dumbo section of Brooklyn; Sunday from 1 to 3 p.m. and 4 to 7 p.m. at the Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park, on the Brooklyn waterfront between the Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges; (718) 855-8822, whitewavedance.com; free. (Dunning)

GUGGENHEIM WORKS & PROCESS (Sunday) Classical ballet meets Mexican-Latin musical culture, as the Ballet de Monterrey heads uptown for this continuing series. The artist Tony Bechara leads a discussion between the company's director, Robert Hill, and its founder, Yolanda Santos-Garza. The Peter B. Lewis Theater at the Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3587, guggenheim.org; sold out. (La Rocco)

RENNIE HARRIS' NEW YORK LEGENDS OF HIP-HOP (Tonight through Sunday) The many aspects of a musical and choreographic form that spread from city streets into theaters will be explored in performances by Mr. Harris, Pop Master Fabel, the Rock Steady Crew, the Mop Tops and others. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at noon and 5 p.m., New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200 or newvictory.org; $35, $25 and $12.50. (Jack Anderson)

INNER LANDSCAPES DANCE THEATER (Tonight through Sunday) Four choreographers -- Nomi Bachar, Nicole Holst, Amiti Perry and Kathryn Sullivan -- and this all-female company explore themes including the repression and abuse of women in Afghanistan under the Taliban, and during the Victorian era. Tonight at 9; tomorrow and Sunday at 8 p.m., Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (917) 675-8837 or innerlandscapesdt.com; $20, $15 for students. (Dunning)

ANDREA HAENGGI (Tuesday through Sunday). In ''Friction,'' Ms. Haenggi, a Swiss-born choreographer, mixes live and recorded film with ''serene yet brutal dance.'' Perhaps a few nightmares will enter with this latest addition to the European Dream Festival. At 7:30 p.m. Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $12 to $20. (La Rocco)

* SARAH MICHELSON (Tonight and tomorrow) A star of downtown experimental modern dance gets her big Next Wave Festival break with a piece called ''Dogs,'' commissioned by the Brooklyn Academy of Music and designed for its Harvey Theater space. At 7:30 p.m., Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100 or bam.org; $20 to $40. (Rockwell)

MOLLIE O'BRIEN/MOB PRODUCTIONS (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. O'Brien's quartet ''Mammal'' explores how aggression and force relate to intimacy and connection. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com and dnadance.org; $17. (Dunning)

PEAK PERFORMANCES: JAN FABRE (Tomorrow and Sunday) This series aims to provoke, and its choice is Jan Fabre, who is said to be a first-rate provocateur. His new ''Quando l'uomo principale e una donna'' (''When the Leading Man Turns Out to Be a Woman'') is a homage to Yves Klein, who used nude women as paintbrushes. Mr. Fabre takes things further by coating the stage floor with olive oil. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, Normal Avenue, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112 or peakperfs.org; $35. (Dunning)

* SANKAI JUKU (Tuesday and Thursday) Japan's best-known Butoh troupe returns with a piece called ''Kagemi: Beyond the Metaphors of Mirrors,'' with seven near-naked, chalk-covered men enacting one of its slow-motion visionary dreamscapes. (Through Oct. 28.) At 7:30 p.m., Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100 or bam.org; $20 to $60. (Rockwell)

SUNDAYS @ THREE (Sunday) Janaki Patrik and her Kathak Ensemble present ''New Links in the Chain,'' a program of traditional and new North Indian dance, with Max Pollak, in this informal series of dance and discussion. At 3 p.m., 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500 or 92y.org/dance; $10. (Dunning)

WAVE RISING SERIES (Wednesday and Thursday) Clearly a workaholic, Young Soon Kim, director of the White Wave studios in Brooklyn and presenter of the Dumbo Dance Festival, moves on to another ambitious event. Fourteen emerging and established choreographers, chosen by Ms. Kim and other panelists, will present 17 pieces in 8 programs over 2 weeks in Wave Rising. (Through Nov. 5.) At 7:30 p.m., John Ryan Theater, 25 Jay Street, Dumbo section of Brooklyn, (718) 855-8822 or whitewavedance.com; $25 at the door, $20 in advance. (Dunning)

WITNESS PROTECTION (Thursday) This dance theater group will present Dan Safer's ''Dancing vs. the Rat Experiment,'' which sees scientific experiments with rats as an analogy for the everyday world. (Through Nov. 13.) At 7:30 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710 or lamama.org; $20. (Dunning)

NEJLA Y. YATKIN/NY2DANCE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Trained in Germany, Ms. Yatkin is a solo dancer who draws on myths, Eastern and contemporary dance, poetry and personal reflections for ''DE/Reconstructing Mata Hari,'' a new multimedia piece about that exotic dancer and World War I spy. At 8, Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $35. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'A DEAF ARTIST IN EARLY AMERICA: THE WORLDS OF JOHN BREWSTER JR.,' through Jan. 7. Few Early American artists painted more incisive and empathetic likenesses than John Brewster Jr. (1766-1854), the subject of a fine traveling show at the American Folk Art Museum. And few worked under such potentially limiting circumstances: Brewster was born deaf before remedial help or a common sign language existed. The case the show makes for Brewster's physical condition's being reflected in his art is inconclusive, but the paintings are wonderful. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Holland Cotter)

* ASIA SOCIETY: 'GILDED SPLENDOR: TREASURES OF CHINA'S LIAO EMPIRE (907-1125),' through Dec. 31. For a thousand years the Khitan, who established the Liao Empire, were dismissed by Chinese historians, but they have been redeemed by late-20th-century archaeological discoveries. The evidence is laid out in this show of more than 200 objects excavated from tombs, temples and walled cities in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China. The first major display of Liao objects outside China, the show gives the lie to the idea of the Khitan as cultural nobodies. .Ceramics, wood carvings, painted screens and belts; bronze mirrors that studded the outside of the White Pagoda; writing instruments; and even an ancient spittoon add to the bite and flavor of this show. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Grace Glueck)

* BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS, 'TROPICALIA: A REVOLUTION IN BRAZILIAN CULTURE,' through Jan. 28. Tropicalia, or Tropicalism, wasn't a style or a movement as much as an atmosphere, a rush of youthful, cosmopolitan, liberating optimism that broke over Brazil in the late 1960's like a sunshower, and soaked into everything -- art, music, film, theater and architecture -- until a military government clamped down. The Bronx Museum's absorbing, inevitably diffuse show is an attempt to recapture the moment's fugitive spirit, and with the presence of artists like Helio Oiticica and Lygia Clark, the architect Lina Bo Bardi, and musicians like Gilberto Gil, it comes close. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, the Bronx, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)

* FRICK COLLECTION: 'CIMABUE AND EARLY ITALIAN DEVOTIONAL PAINTING,' through Dec. 31. Weighing in at six works of art, with about 20 images among them, this is one of the most stupendous very small exhibitions most of us are likely to see. It reunites two small, beautiful, newly attributed panels by the Italian master Cimabue, whose turn toward naturalism increased the sense of space, gesture and feeling in Florentine painting, and helped set the Renaissance in motion. The panels, which depict a Virgin and Child Enthroned and a Flagellation and may be from the same altarpiece, are flanked by related works. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700. (Roberta Smith)

* SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'LUCIO FONTANA: VENICE/NEW YORK,' through Jan. 21. If the Italian artist Lucio Fontana (1899-1968) was dazzled by Venice, he was positively awestruck by New York, which he first visited in 1961. For each city he created a group of works that he felt expressed its individual spirit. For Venice, a group of richly sensual oil paintings, with his signature slashes and punctures, evoked his personal experience of the lagoon city in glowing colors during the passage of a day. For New York he chose shiny metal surfaces, slashed and pierced to give a semblance of the wired energy and architectural vivacity he saw as the essence of the futuristic metropolis. The two groups are united for the first time, and well attended by works and photographs of works that trace from 1949 the career of an artist seeking to transcend the boundaries of his era. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Glueck)

* THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'SEAN SCULLY: WALL OF LIGHT,' through Jan. 15. The capacious, day-lighted mezzanine galleries at the Met are the perfect setting for Sean Scully's bold and energizing ''Wall of Light'' paintings from the series he started in 1998. These large-scale oils on canvas wow the viewer with their scale, intensity of color and sheer dominance of space. All have this in common: They are richly painted surfaces of close-laid vertical and horizontal bars (he calls them bricks) whose arrangement suggests constructed walls of stone. Although they appear totally abstract, with their all-over arrangements of bars that superficially vary only in color, size and juxtaposition, they evoke landscapes, people, events, the work of other artists. The artist will discuss his works Sunday afternoon at the museum. Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Glueck)

* THE MET: SET IN STONE: THE FACE IN MEDIEVAL SCULPTURE, through Feb. 19. This show brings together nearly 80 carved, mostly limestone heads, mostly from the 12th and 13th centuries. There are excellent side trips, into the grotesque, the influence of the antique, the glimmers of the Renaissance and a new isotope-matching technique helping to divine which heads come from where. The treatments of hair and beard with which medieval sculptors were more at ease than they were with, say, eyes or smiles, are almost a show within a show. (See above) (Smith)

NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'LUMINIST HORIZONS: THE ART AND COLLECTION OF JAMES A. SUYDAM,' through Dec. 31. These days Mr. Suydam is remembered, if at all, as a 19th-century American Luminist painter whose reputation has all but sunk quietly into the New England salt meadows that he loved to paint. This exhibition has a few aims, one of which is a kind of art historical search and rescue operation. Mr. Suydam's early works were painted in a smooth Luminist style compatible with his material. His masterwork, ''Paradise Rocks, Newport'' (1860), is an expansive, low-tide view of a wide, flat beach, meadow and distant rising rocks along the Rhode Island shoreline. The paintings in this show remind us that Mr. Suydam -- and his fellow Luminists -- were an extremely talented group who helped bring a measure of sensitivity, subtlety and poetry to the American landscape tradition. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Benjamin Genocchio)

* NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY: LEGACIES: CONTEMPORARY ARTISTS REFLECT ON SLAVERY, through Jan. 7. Slavery, some would say, didn't really end in the United States until the civil rights legislation of the 1960's, a full century after the Emancipation Proclamation. Or the ''Emancipation Approximation,'' as the artist Kara Walker calls it in a series of hallucinatory silkscreen prints. They are among the high points of this large, powerful, subtle group show. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Cotter)

RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART: 'I SEE NO STRANGER: EARLY SIKH ART AND DEVOTION,' through Jan. 29. Sikhism is the world's fifth-largest organized religion, but how many Westerners know that it was conceived as universalist in scope and radically egalitarian socially? Or that its holy book, far from being a catalog of sectarian dos and don'ts, is a bouquet of poetic songs blending the fragrances of Hindu ragas, Muslim hymns, and Punjabi folk tunes? This is precisely the information delivered by this small and beautiful show. Vivid and concentrated, it presents, mostly through miniature paintings, a kind of Sikh self-portrait, the image of a history shaped by hard work, pluralism and mystical transport, as well as by militancy. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)

* THE WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: MARK GROTJAHN, through Jan. 7. Mining the early Modernist cusp where the figurative, the geometric, the spatial and the visionary still remain tangled, this Los-Angeles-based painter deploys his abstract pinwheel motifs on paper in eight brash, door-sized drawings. Multiple vanishing points destabilize radiating compositions that are variously Op and buzzy, darkly monochrome (and a little too pretentiously moody) or candy-color bright. In some works the motif is doubled and angled, decreasing the shieldlike frontality and opening up new optical and spatial possibilities. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)

THE WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'PICASSO AND AMERICAN ART,' through Jan. 28. Despite the glamorous pictures in it, this is one of those dull affairs incubated in the world of academe: a walk-through slide show that states the obvious. Picasso's ''Woman in White,'' a picture of heavenly arrogance, hangs between Arshile Gorky's ''Artist and His Mother'' and de Kooning's ''Standing Man,'' terrific paintings too. We are meant to register the plain insinuation of Picasso's neo-Classicism, then move on. Next slide, please. The show ends with a virtual retrospective of Picasso-inspired works by Jasper Johns. In picture after picture, Johns buries allusions to the great Spaniard, aspiring presumably to Picasso's own late meditations on Velazquez. Except that even when he was old and running out of steam, Picasso still had joie de vivre. Johns doesn't so much enthrone Picasso as repeatedly entomb him. See above. (Michael Kimmelman)

Galleries: Chelsea

* KAREN KILIMNIK Ms. Kilimnik's sharp, witty, low-key show is spun around a Napoleonic theme, with a full-scale battle tent sitting in the gallery and paintings of Gericaultian steeds and soldiers inside and out. But any incipient Romanticism is cut with impurities -- walk-ons from Hollywood, refugees from Allure magazine -- as if to keep everything off balance and confused. Although Ms. Kilimnik has a reputation as a celebrity fantasist, she's a conceptual artist with a cool, watchful, resistant eye. Everyone agrees that full recognition of her accomplishment and influence is long overdue. May it begin here. 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-1121, through Nov. 4. (Cotter)

Last Chance

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FREDERIC CHURCH, WINSLOW HOMER AND THOMAS MORAN: TOURISM AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' It turns out that the Cooper-Hewitt owns thousands of rarely seen paintings, prints and sketches by Church, Homer and Moran. Studies of the countryside, mostly, they revere unspoiled nature and record tourism, a booming industry in 19th-century America. Here they're combined with antique postcards, old Baedeker's guides, stereoscopic photographs, playing cards with pictures of Yellowstone on them and souvenir platters, all to trace the nation's transformation from primeval wilderness to Catskills resort. The show is extremely entertaining. And Church's oil sketches alone are worth the price of admission: exquisite, plainspoken Emersonian love poems to New York and New England. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400 or ndm.si.edu; closes on Sunday. (Kimmelman)

GUILD HALL MUSEUM: 'ELIZABETH PEYTON PRINTS 1998-2006,' Most of the 43 works in this exhibition portray beautiful people, some famous, some less so. Most immediately engaging is the tension between the painterly abstraction and the human subject matter. Images are realized in drippy swatches, squiggly lines and feathery dabs, and colors range from incandescent reds and oranges to pale lavenders and grays to dark velvety browns, blacks and purples. Yet for all that expressionistic action, likenesses are exacting. People like Nicole Kidman and Jacqueline Kennedy and her young son, John, are rendered with seemingly effortless precision. Romantic feeling connects the form and content in Ms. Peyton's work. To paint, her works imply, is to be in love: to be in love with certain people and with painting itself. 158 Main Street, East Hampton, N.Y., (631) 324-0806, guildhall.org/museum.ihtml; closes on Sunday. (Ken Johnson)

STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'NADINE ROBINSON: ALLES GRAU,' 'QUID PRO QUO: RASHAWN GRIFFIN, KARYN OLIVIER AND CLIFFORD OWEN: 2005-06 ARTISTS-IN-RESIDENCE' AND 'BEYOND SIGHT,' The Studio Museum is looking sharp with three concurrent shows, the outstanding one being a single big sound-sculpture by Nadine Robinson. It expands her political purview from imperialism to Armageddon, with hundreds of speakers embedded in an 11-foot-high gray-black wall unit that generate a sampling of satanic film scores (''The Omen,'' ''The Matrix''), mixed with funeral chants and Rastafarian dance music. ''Quid Pro Quo'' is a showcase for the 2005-6 artists in residence, all interdisciplinarians with a sweet-and-sour Dadaist touch. Mr. Owens, with performance, looks intriguingly volatile. And you won't want to leave the museum without checking out ''Beyond Sight,'' the work of 14 teenagers. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseuminharlem.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

DONA NELSON The painter Dona Nelson is in midcareer, and her work process is more experimental than ever, on the evidence of the four large pieces in this show. One is made with layers of hosed-down pigment; another is festooned with ropes of stiffened cloth; a third is a rubbing from an earlier painting; a fourth is reversible. In messing around with form, Ms. Nelson lets beauty fall where it may, which makes her art feel exciting and awake. Thomas Erben Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, fourth floor, Chelsea, (212) 645-8701, thomaserben.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: Photos: MOVIES -- Matt Damon, left, and Leonardo DiCaprio in ''The Departed.'' Page 26. (Photo by Andrew Cooper/Warner Brothers Pictures)
POP -- The pop sensations known as the Cheetah Girls appear in concert tonight and tomorrow. Page 26. (Photo by Mario Anzuoni/Reuters)
 ART -- ''Concetto spaziale, Il cielo di Venezia (1961)'' is part of an exhibition of Lucio Fontana works on display at the Guggenheim. Page 28. (Photo by Fondazione Lucio Fontana) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); WRITERS (61%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MATT DAMON (57%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); BHUTAN (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



460 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Kool-Aid, Craziness and Utopian Yearning

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
The scariest thing about ''Jonestown: The Life and Death of Peoples Temple'' is that so many of the followers of Jim Jones, the demented demagogue who led them to commit mass suicide, appear to have been intelligent, idealistic, life-loving people. On Nov. 18, 1978, more than 900 of them died after drinking poisoned Kool-Aid in what this documentary, directed by Stanley Nelson, calls ''the largest mass suicide in modern history.'' 
 Two of the five Jonestown residents who resisted Mr. Jones's call and escaped into the jungles of Guyana after their loved ones died in their arms offer moment-by-moment accounts of this orgy of self-annihilation. The movie includes an audiotape of Mr. Jones urging them to ''die with a degree of dignity'' rather than ''lie down in tears and agony.'' 
 Death, he argued, was not that big a deal; it was just crossing a line. He heralded communal self-destruction as ''an act of revolutionary suicide protesting the conditions of an inhumane world.''
 This is a movie to make you shudder. How many of us are so desperate for a charismatic leader claiming to have the answers that we will surrender our basic instincts for survival, along with our reason? This film paints a portrait of Mr. Jones, who died with his flock in Guyana, as a man with two faces. The appealing one was that of a trained Pentecostal minister, an idealist with polished oratorical skills. Growing up poor in Indiana, Mr. Jones was sensitive to the plight of African-Americans, and preached racial equality. His son Jim Jones Jr., who appears in the film, boasts of being the first black child adopted by a Caucasian in the state of Indiana. 
 Especially for Mr. Jones's poor black followers, the interracial, self-sufficient community he established in Guyana, and before that in San Francisco and in the Redwood Valley of Northern California in the mid-1960's, promised utopia. In exchange for their life savings, church members happy to work 20 hours a day for the cause were provided comfortable accommodations and given allowances. The documentary has clips of euphoric Peoples Temple celebrations in all three locations.
 The other Jim Jones wears the scowl of a paranoid sadist. As a child, this Jim Jones (whose father was an unemployed alcoholic) conducted funerals for dead animals. A social outcast among whites, he found community in the Pentecostal church and preached on the revival circuit. Years later, he performed bogus faith healings. 
 Declaring that everyone in the community except himself was homosexual, he verbally coerced men and women into having sex with him and afterward told them he did it for them. At the same time, he discouraged liaisons among Temple members, asserting that sexual relationships were selfish and took away from the focus of the church. 
 One New Year's Eve in California, he rehearsed the coming mass suicide by passing out punch to 126 people, then telling them they had just drunk poison and would die together as one. When nothing happened, he said it was a loyalty test. 
 After the church moved from the Redwood Valley to San Francisco, Mr. Jones became a political force whose support helped elect George Moscone the city's mayor in 1975. But as the church grew in numbers and influence, Mr. Jones's paranoia deepened. The night in 1977 that New West magazine went to press with an expose of Peoples Temple based on defectors' accounts, Mr. Jones fled for Jonestown, which was already under construction. 
 Some embraced it as a heaven on earth. But Mr. Jones also set up a speaker system through which he broadcast his paranoid ravings 24 hours a day. Before long, anyone who expressed a wish to leave was considered a traitor. 
 The end came suddenly, right after Leo Ryan, a California congressman, arrived in Jonestown on Nov. 17, 1978, to investigate complaints from constituents whose relatives had moved there. When Mr. Jones learned that several residents wanted to return with him to the United States, chaos erupted. As Representative Ryan's plane was about to leave, he was one of five people who were killed on the airstrip. The mass suicide followed the next day. 
 In hindsight, it may be convenient to view Jonestown as the most tragic manifestation of 1960's utopianism run amok, and to imagine that in today's tougher, more cynical social climate, it couldn't happen. But as this powerful, minutely documented film reveals, the tragedy wasn't caused by the failure of the Peoples Temple to realize its goals. In many ways, it was succeeding as a self-sufficient community. 
 Rather, the horror of Jonestown was caused by people's willingness to surrender their reason to a madman who was also a charismatic manipulator. And that can happen anytime and anywhere. 

Jonestown
The Life and Death of Peoples Temple

Opens today in Manhattan.

Produced and directed by Stanley Nelson; written by Noland Walker and Marcia Smith, based on a story by Ms. Smith; director of photography, Michael Chin; edited by Lewis Erskine; music by Tom Phillips; released by Seventh Art Releasing. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 85 minutes. This film is not rated.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a film review in Weekend on Friday about ''Jonestown: The Life and Death of Peoples Temple'' misstated the timing of the mass suicide of Jim Jones and his followers in relation to the killing of Leo Ryan, a congressman from California who had gone to Guyana to investigate complaints from constituents whose relatives had moved there with Mr. Jones. The suicides occurred on the day Mr. Ryan was killed, not the day after.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Jones, who was a Pentecostal minister, in a scene from ''Jonestown.'' (Photo by California Historical Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); RELIGION (89%); POISONINGS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); HISTORY (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); ADOPTION (63%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Stephen Holden; Stanley Nelson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (88%) GUYANA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



461 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS Door County, Wis.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: Where the Heartland Goes to Clear Its Head

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
IT has been called the Cape Cod of the Midwest, and, in many ways, Door County in Wisconsin -- on a 75-mile-long peninsula, with Green Bay to the west and Lake Michigan on the east -- does resemble the cape. Both places lure visitors with shorelines that seem never to end and the serenity often associated with living next to water. But while Cape Cod tastes like salty New England, Door County -- with its heritage of Scandinavian farming and fishing -- is redolent of cherry orchards and the fresh water that embraces the peninsula.
 Though brine and dunes are rare, the more than 300 miles of Door County's shoreline do offer dozens of islands, 10 lighthouses and limestone bluffs as high as 200 feet.
Many of the region's second-home owners come to bayside villages like Ephraim and Sister Bay on the northern half of the peninsula by way of Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Madison. But some, like Robert and Jackie Galecke, are lured there from places as far away as Dallas. 
 Recalling her first visit to Sister Bay, her first spring in the Midwest after 15 years in Dallas, Ms. Galecke said: ''When I smelled the lilacs and cedar trees again, I cried. Dallas smells like concrete in the summer.'' 
 For the last 18 summers, Ms. Galecke, who grew up nearby in Escanaba, Mich., has run a small summer cottage resort in Ephraim; Mr. Galecke is a financial executive at the University of Dallas. 
 Recently they sold the 1.6-acre cottage complex for $350,000 and bought a $190,000 raised-ranch-style house built in the 1960's. Because it is inland, the house, which they plan to restore, cost far less than comparable houses that have water views.
 No matter where part-timers come from or where on the narrow peninsula they live, the water's draw is powerful. ''It's the place where I restore myself, '' said Sharon Waller, a homemaker who lives in Lake Forest, a suburb of Chicago, and who has spent summers on the peninsula with her husband, Robert, an executive with a medical products company, since 1981. ''I live for the sunsets over Green Bay.'' 
 The couple, whose children are grown, recently moved from a house in Ephraim to a new condo in Crows Nest Estates in Sister Bay, one village to the north. To better appreciate the spectacular views from high on a bluff overlooking the water, where the condo sits, the couple added a sunroom. The bluffs -- part of the Niagara Escarpment that runs from New York through Ontario and Michigan to Wisconsin -- serve as a spectacular backdrop for condos that can sell for more than $1.5 million 
 Most part-timers are baby boomers close to retirement, said William D. Chaudoir, executive director of the Door County Economic Development Corporation. Many of them, like the Wallers, buy homes north of Sturgeon Bay, the peninsula's midpoint, with an eye toward living there full time.
 For now, the part-timers' arrival each May, about the time the Montmorency cherry trees bloom, causes the county's population of under 28,000 to swell to nearly 100,000. It remains close to that level until late October, when the last apples fall. But those patterns are changing, Mr. Chaudoir said. Increasingly, each year, more part-timers return on winter weekends to cross-country ski, hike the trails that thread through the county's public parkland and curl up by their fireplaces for the holidays.
 ''In winter, we're here at least once a month,'' said Matthew Myre, an investment banker from DeKalb, Ill., who has a house in Sister Bay with his wife, Nancy. As a girl, Ms. Myre spent summers in Door County with her parents, and like many other part-timers, she has carried on the tradition. The couple's three children, who are grown, still return for special occasions and holidays. ''At New Year's, there are five couples with 23 kids among us who get together to celebrate,'' Mr. Myre said.

The Scene
 The dress code on the peninsula is understated, with some residents like Mr. Myre spending the summer in shorts and flip-flops. Others, like Ms. Waller, prefer slightly less casual attire, opting, she said, for ''capri pants and matching tops, along with some nice jewelry, but definitely not any designer labels.'' Midwesterners, she explained, disdain showing off or bragging.
 Dining out also tends to be casual -- so casual in fact that Mr. Myre often comes directly from his 36-foot powerboat to dinner at J. J.'s & La Puerta Restaurant in Sister Bay, known for its burgers and fries. Another popular casual spot is Fred & Fuzzy's Waterfront Bar & Grill, where dining is outdoors and the chef prefers to serve the tuna rare. For a more upscale establishment, there is the Inn at Kristofer's. 
 The village of Ephraim is typical of the county's towns. It was settled in 1853 by 40 Norwegian Moravians, and the village's sturdy stone architecture and simple, white-painted buildings still reflect that heritage. The surrounding area still produces lush crops of apples and cherries. In winter, when Green Bay freezes, a community of ice-fishing shanties springs up on Eagle Harbor in Ephraim. And in Peninsula State Park, which is close to 3,800 acres, cross-country skiers hit the trails.

Pros
 For those not out kayaking during the day (Moonlight Bay on Lake Michigan on the eastern side of the peninsula is a much-loved local spot) or sailing, Door has 5 state and 18 county parks for hiking, biking and picnicking. 
 The arts scene is active, with museums, arts schools and performance sites -- among them, Door Shakespeare in Baileys Harbor at the Bjorklunden Garden, and the Peninsula Players Theater in Fish Creek.

Cons
 Traffic can snarl on Route 42, the main thoroughfare in northern Door County, especially near Al Johnson's Swedish Restaurant in Sister Bay, where goats graze on a grass roof, causing many motorists to slow down.
 Also, northern Door is 90 miles -- a two-hour car trip, depending on traffic -- from the airport in Green Bay.

The Real Estate Market
 The rule of thumb when it comes to residential real estate in the northern half of Door County, is that the closer to the bay, the higher the price. A two-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bathroom wood-frame, cedar house on the water in Ephraim is listed at $1.1 million; by comparison, a three-bedroom, two-bathroom wood-frame inland in Ephraim is listed for $269,000. In Liberty Grove, at the northernmost tip of the peninsula, where Green Bay and Lake Michigan converge, a four-bedroom log home was recently listed at $3,875,000, an area record.
 Although the lakeside also affords spectacular views, prices tend to be lower there because it lacks the many boutiques and art galleries that line the bayside, said Dan Mortier, a broker-partner at Properties of Door County in Sister Bay. All over the peninsula, log cabins, once owned by local lumbermen, have become popular among part-timers, as have smaller lots where houses built in the 1950's and 60's are often torn down and replaced by larger and more modern houses. 
 The increased popularity of new condos with water views ''represents a distinct trend,'' Mr. Mortier said. ''These builders are definitely targeting empty-nesters who might retire here. They're offering buyers lots of closets and storage so that no one has to even think about downsizing.''
 Robert L. Kufrin, the administrator for Sister Bay, said the recent growth in new housing has generated ''an enormous debate'' in the village. Most recently, a developer proposed converting what is 5,000 square feet spread among a couple of small buildings near the village center to a 78,000-square-foot, three-story building with 30 condo units. 
 ''How do you make growth like that look good?'' he said. ''Projects like that are forcing up the price of local real estate. How do you attract a local work force if they can't afford to live here?''

LAY OF THE LAND

POPULATION -- According to the census, 27,961 people lived in Door County in 2000, and almost 19 percent of them were 65 and older.

SIZE -- 483 square miles for the whole county. Sister Bay covers 2.6 square miles.

LOCATION -- The peninsula -- less than five miles across around Sister Bay -- juts up into Green Bay and Lake Michigan from the northeastern corner of Wisconsin.

WHO'S BUYING -- Mostly baby boomers from Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Madison, Wis.

GETTING THERE -- By car from the Green Bay airport, it's a 90-mile drive east on Route 172, north on Interstate 43 and northeast on Route 57 to northern Door. Where Route 42 forks to the left, follow it.

WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The Hillside Inn of Ephraim (9980 Water Street, 866-673-8456; www.visitephraim.com), which dates back to the late 1800's, is newly renovated and has five suites and two cottages. Breakfast is served each morning on the large front porch. Rooms range from $190 to $275.

THREE FOR SALE
A Peninsula With Goats on a Roof and a Real Nordic Touch

Information on properties was supplied by the listing agencies.

WHAT -- 2-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $189,000

This 10-year-old town house is two blocks from the Sister Bay waterfront. An end unit, it has two bathrooms, a gas fireplace and a covered porch. Agent: Heather Olson, Kellstrom-Ray Agency; (920) 854-2353; www.kellstromray.com.

WHAT -- 4-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $359,000

This nine-year-old condo in Sister Bay features an open kitchen and vaulted ceilings. It has three bathrooms, two fireplaces and two wraparound decks. It is within walking distance of the marina for watching the sunset, and the complex has a pool. Agent: Dana Schaffer, Properties of Door County; (920) 421-2689; www.propertiesofdoorcounty.com.

WHAT -- 4-bedroom house
HOW MUCH -- $1.8 million

This 4,000-square-foot Queen Anne-style house in Ephraim has an elevator, four and a half bathrooms, bay windows, leaded glass, a fireplace and a large front porch. The property has 128 feet of shorefront. There is also a two-car attached garage. Agent: Tricia Cramer, Premier Properties of Door County; (920) 854-9799; www.premierdoorcounty.com.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the Havens column last Friday about second homes in Door County, Wis., misidentified the body of water where people were kayaking. It was Green Bay, not the open water of Lake Michigan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MIDWEST IN SILHOUETTE -- Sunset kayaking on Lake Michigan at Peninsula State Park in Door County, a Wisconsin vacation area. (Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)Map of Wisconsin highlighting Door County.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (89%); LAKES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (70%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (60%) Travel and Vacations; Housing; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (50%) door county (wis); Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



462 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Study Shows Data for Claim Of Atlantic Yards' Benefits

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
A state agency has released documentation for its estimates of the economic impact of the controversial Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, just weeks after the agency's chairman said he would not make it public until after the agency's board votes on the project later this year.
 In promoting the $4.2 billion mixed-use real estate project, the agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, has asserted that the project would generate $1.4 billion worth of tax revenues beyond what building it would cost the city and state in subsidies and other assistance. Since the agency supplied that figure in July, however, it had declined to release the study supporting it, despite requests from elected officials in the area, Brooklyn residents and journalists. 
 In an interview with WNET television two weeks ago, Charles A. Gargano, the agency's chairman, said the figure was based on ''internal documents, working documents'' that were exempt from the state's Freedom of Information Law. 
 Jessica Copen, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gargano, maintained yesterday that the documents were privileged, but said the agency had decided to make them public this week as a gesture of ''good government.''
 Atlantic Yards is planned for 8.7 million square feet near Downtown Brooklyn and would include housing, office and retail space and an arena for the Nets basketball team. According to the study, the project would generate $1.9 billion in sales and income tax revenue for the city and state over 30 years, in today's dollars. 
 About $160 million of that would represent one-time revenues from the project's construction, and $1.4 billion would come from taxes generated over the 30 years by the more than 6,500 new jobs the agency estimates the project would create, directly and indirectly.
 Agency officials estimate that the project would generate an additional $366 million in taxes on hotel visitors, arena tickets and concessions and the earnings of Nets players.
 In return, the study estimates, taxpayers would contribute $492.9 million to the project. That would include direct subsidies of $200 million, bond financing costs and sales and mortgage recording tax exemptions.
 The analysis does not include the $100 million the project's developer, Forest City Ratner, has agreed to pay the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for development rights over the Vanderbilt railyards, which make up about a third of the project site. 
 Forest City Ratner is also the development partner in building a new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company.
 Because it is hard to determine how many residential tenants of the project would be new to New York, the analysis excludes them as a source of new revenue, as well as the cost for possible increases in municipal services they might require. 
 Perhaps more significantly, the study also excludes public subsidies for the project's planned 2,250 units of housing priced below market rates. Those subsidies are still under negotiation, but could substantially increase the public cost of the project.
 The agency's study ''does not disclose the public cost of the Ratner project, and the claimed benefits are highly speculative,'' said Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, a coalition of groups opposed to the project. ''We can only assume the E.S.D.C. is hiding the public cost because it is too ugly or controversial to disclose, while the developer's profit is enormous.''
 Aside from uncertainty over the magnitude of public subsidies for the project, the new study leaves unanswered major questions about the Atlantic Yards' long-term finances.
 ''That is a skeleton projection of state and local tax revenue,'' said Assemblyman James F. Brennan of Brooklyn. Mr. Brennan has requested a detailed accounting of the project's financial return to Forest City -- figures not covered in the new study -- and for the costs of each element of the mixed-use project, like the arena.
 Such requests have so far been rebuffed. Mr. Brennan said he believed that a fuller financial picture might undercut supporters' contention that the project's enormous size and density could not be reduced without endangering its economic viability.
 ''We don't know how much money the arena's going to make,'' Mr. Brennan said. ''We don't know how much the private rental housing is going to make. We don't know how much the luxury housing and commercial property will make. Therefore, we do not know whether the arena or the affordable housing are independently economically viable. If they are, or if they only need minimal subsidy, then there is no rationale for the size.''
 Joe DePlasco, a spokesman for Forest City Ratner, said the company had complied with all disclosure requirements.
 ''We are in the midst of a public review process and have provided to relevant agencies required information involving the Atlantic Yards project,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); TAX LAW (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (68%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); BASKETBALL (65%); BONDS (61%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%) Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn); Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Empire State Development Corp

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (61%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (61%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%)

PERSON: Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



463 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Lowest Unemployment Since 1988 

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate fell to 4.5 percent in September, matching the lowest level in the 30 years that the current measure has been used, the State Labor Department said yesterday. The only other time since 1976 that the city's jobless rate has been so low was in February 1988, the department reported. Last month was also the first time since August 1988 that the city's unemployment rate was lower than the nation's. Nationally, the unemployment rate was 4.6 percent in September. The state's unemployment rate fell to 4.4 percent from 4.7 percent in August. In the last 12 months, private employers in the state have added 65,300 jobs, including 50,400 in New York City. ''Our five-borough economic strategy is creating jobs and opportunities for New Yorkers across the city, and the fact that unemployment has hit an almost 20-year low is a good sign our efforts are paying off,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in a statement. PATRICK McGEEHAN (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%) Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (NYS)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



464 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: A Twist on the Old Dream: Looking to Ireland for Jobs

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Cassi Feldman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The jobs fair that Ireland is holding tonight in Midtown Manhattan was envisioned as an invitation home to hard-pressed Irish immigrants living illegally in New York. Instead, to the surprise of organizers, it is mainly American citizens who have shown interest and seem eager for a new career and a new life in Ireland's booming economy.
 Some, like Robert Aspland, 54, are disenchanted veterans of American business who see a better market in Ireland for their ideas and experience. Others are young and frustrated, like Patrick Cahalan, 26, a fourth-generation New Yorker with a degree in graphic design who is ready to chuck freelance work at stagnant wages to chase the kind of opportunity his distant Irish ancestors once sought in America. 
 ''Their economy is on the way up, their education's on the way up,'' said Mr. Cahalan, who had just returned from his first trip to Ireland when he learned of the jobs fair, which begins at 5 p.m. today and runs through tomorrow afternoon at the Affinia Manhattan hotel on Seventh Avenue and 31st Street. 
 ''The reports of economic growth in America may be true, but they usually don't include people like me,'' he added. ''It seems like getting a full-time job with benefits that also pays a living wage is like a pipe dream here these days.'' 
 That kind of interest from American citizens is new to Gregory Craig, director of corporate affairs for FAS, the Irish national training and employment authority, which has organized the event and has run similar fairs from Sydney to Moscow, striving to fill the 60,000 skilled vacancies in its jobs bank.
 But when Mr. Craig checked the immigration figures with his own foreign ministry, he said, he realized he was at the front line of a small but unmistakable trend: nearly three times more Americans moved to Ireland last year than Irish immigrated to the United States.
 The numbers are tiny, though growing: 4,300 Americans immigrated to Ireland in 2005, and 5,000 are projected by the end of this year, Mr. Craig said. Only 1,700 Irish came to America in 2005, and the numbers are expected to dwindle. 
 That kind of twist on the past was worth a good laugh to Timothy J. Meagher, a historian of Irish-American immigration at Catholic University of America in Washington. 
 ''It has a nice symmetry to it, doesn't it?'' he said when he caught his breath. ''It really is a historic pass. It's kind of mind-boggling.'' 
 For most of three centuries, Ireland hemorrhaged its population and served as the image of poverty and failure, he said. As recently as 1990, 23,000 people left Ireland, including some who re-greened old Irish neighborhoods in New York, Boston and Philadelphia but never gained legal status. 
 Some joined a return migration to now-prosperous Ireland, and those left behind without American citizenship seem like a natural audience for the job fair, which is described as having 6,500 ''live jobs'' of every kind, from posts in the financial sector and the stock exchange to work for painters, plumbers and decorators. In New York, illegal Irish immigrants face security crackdowns that make it harder for those without a valid Social Security number to drive, work or plan a future in the United States. 
 But Mr. Craig worried that fear would keep some away. ''Our undocumented have a problem with this show because they feel threatened,'' he said. ''A lot of people are afraid that your Homeland Security people will be there.'' 
 Others dismissed the idea. ''We don't buy into that at all, the threat of a swoop,'' said Adrian Flannelly, chairman of the Irish Radio Network in New York, who has served on an Irish government task force on returnees. ''It would be highly inappropriate for the strong arm of the law to show up.''
 Just who will show up remains to be seen. But Mr. Craig, who has helped run similar events in Poland, Estonia, and Latvia, said email in response to flyers and notices in the Irish-American press had come overwhelmingly from Americans, some with ancestral ties to Ireland, but many without.
 ''My view is these people are looking for a complete change of life,'' he said, listing some of Ireland's advantages as competitive pay, plentiful jobs, four months maternity leave, full health coverage and free education through college. 
 By law, preference is given to citizens of Europe, like the 120,000 Eastern Europeans now working in Ireland. But the jobs on offer at the fair have already been approved for others, he said, and the fair will provide information about visas and work permits for Americans.
 Some, like Mr. Aspland, the veteran businessman, who has never been to Ireland, are eligible for dual citizenship through an Irish grandparent. His main interest, however, is parlaying his ties to China into international trade opportunities from Ireland. 
 ''I'm one of those people who lost everything on the day of 9/11,'' he said, describing the abrupt end of a career putting together ''road shows'' for stock offerings and mergers and acquisitions. ''Everybody I knew was either dead or also out of a job -- they took all the jobs and sent them to India.''
 His mother, 89, told him that her mother, Mary Elizabeth Connery, would be spinning in her grave to think of him moving to Ireland, he said. His grandmother fled Irish poverty, worked as a domestic in Brooklyn, and died there at 83 in 1957, happy never to see Dungarvan County again.
 But today, he said: ''You need to look at being a global citizen. I love New York City, and it's the greatest city in the world, but it's something you have to consider, because I have no benefits. There's more opportunity in Ireland for someone with my background and my age.''
 At a reception for fair organizers last night in the Irish consul general's East Side penthouse, guests were plied with canapes of smoked salmon and stuffed mushrooms as officials emphasized that Americans brought the skills, language and comfort with diversity that suited the new Ireland.
 ''We're not offering people a favor,'' said Tony Killeen, Ireland's minister for labor affairs. ''We need them.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about an Ireland jobs fair in Manhattan that organizers said had attracted more interest from American citizens than from Irish immigrants referred incorrectly to Dungarvan, the birthplace of the maternal grandmother of Robert Asplund, one of the job seekers. It is a town in Ireland, not a county.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Aspland, 54, an American corporate veteran whose business dropped off after 9/11, sees international trade possibilities via Ireland. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); REFUGEES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); HISTORY (60%) Labor; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants

PERSON: Nina Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRELAND (92%) Ireland; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



465 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Foreign Groups in Russia Must Suspend Activities
Scores of foreign private organizations, including some that have been critical of the Kremlin, like Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, were forced to cease their operations in Russia while the government considered whether to register them under a new law that has received sharp international criticism. PAGE A8

Priest Admits Foley Contact 

A priest living in Malta has admitted having intimate contact with Mark Foley, the former congressman from Florida, when he worked at Mr. Foley's childhood church in the 1960's. PAGE A17

A World War II Front, and Everything After
In ''Flags of Our Fathers,'' Ryan Phillippe plays a World War II sailor who returns to the United States on a war-bond drive after helping to raise the flag at Iwo Jima. A review by Manohla Dargis. WEEKEND, PAGE E1

Dow Average Closes Above 12,000 for the First Time
The Dow Jones industrial average closed above the 12,000 level for the first time, indicating that investors were confident that the economy was poised to slow but not to stall. Many traders still worry about the slowdown in the housing market, however. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Ex-Stock Exchange Chief Told To Return Up to $100 Million
A judge has ruled that Richard A. Grasso, former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, did not disclose to his fellow directors the extent to which his soaring compensation caused his pension to balloon, and that he violated his contract by withdrawing $87 million before his retirement. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Merie W. Wallace/DreamWorks and Warner Brothers)Graph: ''Dow Jones Industrial Average''Graph tracks Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1997.First close above 11,000: May 3, 1999Yesterday's close: 12,011.73(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); BONDS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HOUSING MARKET (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (51%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



466 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Quality, German Universities Scrap Equality

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: KARLSRUHE, Germany, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
At the university in this humdrum German town, there are no decorous strands of ivy on the 1960's buildings, nor is there the kind of scholarly patina that blankets Heidelberg, the older, more celebrated university just up the road.
 Yet last week, when a German government committee anointed three institutions as elite universities -- a sort of Teutonic Ivy League -- Karlsruhe made the cut while Heidelberg did not. The other winners were the University of Munich and the Technical University, also in Munich.
The much anticipated decision, which entitles the schools to more than $100 million each over the next five years, sent spirits soaring at Karlsruhe and swooning at Heidelberg. It also set off a national discussion about the nature of excellence, the necessity of focusing on science and technology and the wisdom of culling the great from the merely good.
 ''People used to say elite was a dirty word,'' said Peter Hommelhoff, the rector of the University of Heidelberg, nursing his disappointment at being passed over. But he said: ''I haven't seen much negative reaction to the announcement. The idea of elites is no longer a problem in Germany.'' 
 With German universities -- once the envy of the academic world -- in decline for decades, Mr. Hommelhoff said most Germans accepted that radical measures were needed to propel them back into competition with their rivals in Britain, Switzerland and especially the United States.
 To start with, Germans are abandoning a notion that all universities are basically equal -- an ideal that dates from the 1970's when university admissions were opened up and that has served to mask vast disparities in quality among the country's 102 universities. 
 ''Germany was never a flat landscape,'' said Wolfgang Ketterle, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist who was a member of the selection committee. ''There were always hills and valleys. Our hope is that some of these hills will now grow into well-defined mountains.''
 Designating elite universities reveals some awkward truths about German higher education that were known but rarely acknowledged. One is that northern Germany lags far behind the south in the quality of its institutions. Another is that the most hallowed names in German academia -- Humboldt, Tubingen and the like -- are not actually the best schools.
 ''I was very disappointed, of course, but it would be the wrong reaction to become depressed,'' said Mr. Hommelhoff, in his elegant office with a view of a cobblestone square and a 13th-century castle on a bluff overlooking town. ''We need to make sure we are successful in the next round.''
 Germany plans to select another handful of elite universities next October, and Heidelberg remains in contention. The committee also selected 18 promising graduate programs and 17 research clusters, which would each get several million dollars a year from 2007 to 2011.
 At Karlsruhe, the extra money will help finance the university's highly regarded research in nanotechnology, the field of manipulating matter in dimensions as small as atoms or single molecules.
 But the school, which was founded in 1825, making it the country's oldest technical university, has loftier ambitions. It wants to merge with the nearby Karlsruhe Research Center, a 50-year-old institution that specializes in particle physics and nuclear fusion, to create a university under a new name, the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology.
 ''We chose the name on purpose because K is not far from M in the alphabet,'' said Horst Hippler, a professor of physical chemistry and the rector of the university, who wears a lapel pin with the letters K.I.T.
 Turning Karlsruhe into a German Massachusetts Institute of Technology will take decades, given the vastly higher levels of private and public research financing M.I.T. receives. The money flowing to Karlsruhe is ''peanuts compared to Harvard, Stanford or Berkeley,'' Mr. Hippler said.
 Still, he added, every bit helps. And more important than the money is the status, which he said would help Karlsruhe attract better students, better professors and financing from other sources.
 ''Branding is very important,'' said Mr. Hippler, whose entrepreneurial style is a sharp contrast to that of the courtly Mr. Hommelhoff. ''In five years, German university brands will be recognized around the world.''
 At the moment, they languish far down the academic league tables. In rankings of the world's leading universities, no German institution appears in the top 50. American universities dominate the top spots, with a few scattered British notables like Cambridge and Oxford.
 Some of the weaknesses of German universities defy easy solutions. Germans spend only 1.1 percent of their gross domestic product on higher education, compared with 2.6 percent in the United States. 
 Classrooms have been overcrowded -- and standards have slipped -- since the 1970's, when Germany began guaranteeing that any graduate of a gymnasium, the more academically rigorous part of the high school system, was entitled to a place in a university, paid for entirely by the state.
 At Heidelberg the other day, students filed out of a lecture hall so packed that 30 of them had had to sit on the floor.
 ''The organization for first-year students is a bit chaotic,'' said Ricarda Wagner, 19, who studies English and French. ''The university doesn't seem to care about us much as people.''
 Ms. Wagner said she was proud of Heidelberg, which is 620 years old and has produced eight Nobel Prize winners. If her family had the money, however, she said, she would have chosen the University of London.
 At Karlsruhe, students were delighted that their school was not slighted. ''I thought politics would play a larger role in the process,'' said Martin Hermatschweiler, 28, a doctoral candidate in physics.
 Yet even here, there are criticisms. ''In some cases, I have not been satisfied with the quality of teaching,'' he said. ''You rush from experiment to experiment without much thought or organization.''
 Universities hope to address these shortcomings by becoming more like their elite American counterparts. Starting next year, they will be allowed to charge tuition of 500 euros, or $630, per semester. Karlsruhe has begun to practice selective admissions for its smaller humanities programs.
 Germany, like other European countries, is adopting separate bachelor's and master's degrees. It is also shifting authority away from powerful faculty senates to university presidents and their boards.
 ''We're moving from a republic of professors to an entrepreneurial university,'' said Peter Frankenberg, the minister who oversees universities in Baden-Wurttemberg, home of Heidelberg and Karlsruhe.
 Josef Joffe, a German journalist teaching at Stanford University this semester, said this trans-Atlantic influence was a ''closing of the circle,'' recalling that ''in the late 19th century, the German model of the university inspired Harvard, Berkeley, Chicago and Johns Hopkins.''
 Germans may have shed their resistance to elite schools, but some commentators criticized the heavy emphasis on science and technology in the so-called excellence initiative. Humanities programs were largely overlooked, suggesting that Germany wants engineers more than poets.
 While Germany would benefit from having an M.I.T., some experts warned against mimicking the United States.
 Professor Ketterle, who was born in Heidelberg and studied there, said: ''Germany has great strengths and a great tradition. To abolish this, and to copy from abroad, would just leave you with a bad copy.''
 He was speaking by telephone from M.I.T., where he has been a researcher since 1990 and won his Nobel Prize in 2001.


GRAPHIC: Photo: At the University of Karlsruhe, Nils Feth, left, and Matthias Ruther use lasers to study nanostructures, one of the research areas that will benefit from funds available under a new German plan for academic excellence. (Photo by Hans Rudolf Oeser for The New York Times)Map of Germany highlighting Karlsruhe: Karlsruhe University is one of three new elite German schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); MOUNTAINS (67%) Colleges and Universities; Ratings and Rating Systems; Science and Technology; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: Karlsruhe University (Germany); University of Munich; Technical University (Munich); Heidelberg University (Germany) 

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



467 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SAYS VIOLENCE IN BAGHDAD RISES, FOILING CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS; Reporting was contributed by Michael R. Gordon, Michael Luo and Kirk Semple from Baghdad and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Baghdad and Mosul.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
The United States military command in Iraq acknowledged on Thursday that its 12-week-old campaign to win back control of Baghdad from sectarian death squads and insurgents had failed to reduce violence across the city. A spokesman for the command said intensive discussions were under way between American and Iraqi officials on ways to ''refocus'' the effort, which American officials have placed at the heart of their war strategy.
 In one of the most somber assessments of the war by American commanders, a statement read by the spokesman, Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, said the campaign had been marked by increasing attacks on American troops and a spike in combat deaths. Attacks soared by 22 percent, he said, during the first three weeks of Ramadan, the holy month now nearing its end. With three new combat deaths announced on Thursday, the number of American troops who have lost their lives in October rose to 73, representing one of the sharpest surges in military casualties in the past two years. 
General Caldwell said American troops were being forced to return to neighborhoods, like Dora in southwestern Baghdad, that they had sealed off and cleared as part of the security campaign because ''extremists'' fighting back had sent sectarian violence soaring there. The security plan sent heavy deployments of American troops into troubled neighborhoods, reversing the previous policy, which was to allow Iraqi troops to police the capital. 
 ''The violence is indeed disheartening,'' General Caldwell said. While the sweeps have contained violence in some areas, over all, he said, the campaign to gain control of the city ''has not met our overall expectations of sustaining a reduction in the levels of violence.'' As a result, he said, ''We are working very closely with the government of Iraq to determine how to best refocus our efforts.'' 
 President Bush, who ordered the rearrangement of troops to begin the campaign, is now left with only a handful of tough and politically unattractive options. [News analysis, Page A10.]
 The general's remarks, unusual for their candor and unvarnished portrayal of bad news, appeared to mark a new setback for the American military effort. Stark new videotape broadcast on Thursday by Al Jazeera from Ramadi, an insurgent stronghold 80 miles west of Baghdad, showed heavily armed insurgents taking over a busy city street in broad daylight to celebrate the proclamation by their leaders of an Islamic state in wide areas of Iraq's Sunni heartland. There was no sign of any attempt to intervene by the heavy concentration of American and Iraqi troops in the city. The Iraqi government said the demonstrators fled after 15 minutes.
 The insurgents' ability to strike across wide areas of the country was demonstrated anew on Thursday in the northern oil city of Mosul, when suicide bombers attacked a police station and an American convoy, killing at least 22 people and wounding dozens more, mostly civilians, a hospital official said.
 In the city of Diyala, 40 miles north of Baghdad, a bomb near a market killed 10 people and injured 20 others, an Interior Ministry official said. In Baghdad, the police reported the discovery of 27 bodies on Thursday. 
 The American command's statement on the faltering campaign signified a new and jarring stage in 18 months of efforts to bring peace to Baghdad, with one military plan succeeding another, and none achieving more than a temporary decline in the violence that has made Baghdad the most bloody theater of the war. Senior officers have spoken of the campaign in ''make or break'' terms, saying that there would be little hope of prevailing in the wider war if the bid to retake Baghdad's streets failed.
 General Caldwell gave little hint of what changes the American command might make in the Baghdad operation. Other senior American military officials who have discussed the Baghdad operation with reporters in recent days have suggested that they have no fundamental reworking of the plan in mind; rather, they say, they plan to continue with it for many months, adjusting as conditions dictate. 
 Across Baghdad, as in other troubled areas of Iraq that American forces have tried to ''clear and hold,'' military officials have struggled to deal with insurgents simply melting away, only to return stronger after the offensives wound down. Commanders say the challenge will be not only to clear and hold, but also to ''build,'' meaning that the cleared areas, with Iraqi policing after the troops withdraw, will benefit from infrastructure investment as part of a plan to cut the militants' support. 
 General Caldwell suggested that the increased American troop presence had acted as a spur to the surge in attacks. The general said the Iraq insurgents were aiming at affecting American public opinion in an election year.
 ''It's no coincidence that the surge in attacks against coalition forces and the subsequent increase in U.S. casualties coincide with our increased presence in the streets of Baghdad and the run-up to the American midterm elections,'' the general said. ''The enemy knows that killing innocent people and Americans will garner headlines and create a sense of frustration.''
 A hint that changes in the Baghdad operation were afoot came three weeks ago, when the neighborhood sweeps were halted with large areas of the city untouched, including strongholds of Sunni and Shiite militants like Mansour, in western Baghdad, and Sadr City in the east. Last week, Mr. Bush told reporters he was open to modifying the approach in Iraq ''if it's not working.'' Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, made similar comments.
 The American military has said that it has committed 15,600 troops to the operation -- compared with 9,600 from the Iraqi Army -- with 30,000 Iraqi policemen serving in support roles. American troops have led the 95,000 house searches conducted in the campaign, and General Caldwell said that their visibility had been accompanied by a shift in the pattern of insurgent attacks, with a sharp rise in strikes against American troops and attacks on civilian targets staying more or less constant. 
 ''We find the insurgent elements, the extremists, are in fact punching back hard,'' he said. ''They're trying to get back into those areas,'' the general said. ''We're constantly going back in and doing clearing operations again.'' 
 Perhaps the most striking element in the news conference was General Caldwell's candor. Although American commanders have struck a generally sober tone in the past year, they have been careful not to hint in public at the increasingly gloomy view that some, at least, have taken in private. In recent weeks, some senior officers have voiced growing exasperation at background briefings for reporters, particularly when discussing the ineffectiveness, dithering and corruption, as they have termed it, in the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, and the prime minister's failure to act effectively on his pledge to rein in the Shiite militias that American commanders now see as the main source of instability.
 General Caldwell came to the Baghdad spokesman's job after commanding the 82nd Airborne Division in its relief efforts after Hurricane Katrina last year, and he has struck a generally upbeat tone in his briefings since arriving here this spring. But on Thursday, he appeared unusually subdued. He waved off aquestion suggesting that the situation in Baghdad had similarities to the period of the 1968 Tet offensive in Vietnam, saying, ''We're getting far beyond my realm to start making analogies to the Vietnam War.''
 Then he added: ''But I can tell you that we're obviously very concerned about what we're seeing in the city. We're taking a lot of time to go back and look at the whole Baghdad security plan.''
 He went on: ''Everything stays very dynamic in this type of environment, and it's clear that the conditions under which we started are probably not the same today. And so it does require some modifications of the plan.''
 American commanders who have discussed the Baghdad operation with reporters in recent days have spoken of having limited options as they seek for ways to make the campaign more effective. One is to increase the number of Iraqi troops deployed to the sweeps. Of six Iraqi battalions that were promised when the operation began, these commanders said, only two have been deployed. The commanders also noted that assessments of the operation might improve after November, when a phase of the plan involving economic reconstruction in the ''cleared'' areas would begin. 
 The strategy known as ''clear, hold and build'' is loosely patterned on a similar effort in Vietnam after the Tet offensive, which was credited with helping turn the tide in that war against the Communist insurgents in the early 1970's, before the withdrawal of American troops and a cutoff in Congressional financing for the war hastened the final Communist victory. American commanders in Iraq say that the Baghdad campaign has so far covered only the ''clear'' and ''hold'' phases, and that the rebuilding of infrastructure in cleared Baghdad neighborhoods, especially restoring electricity, sewage and clinics, could help win popular support that would aid in tracking down the death squads and insurgents.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Victims of two bombings in the Baghdad neighborhood of Dora were sent to Yarmouk Hospital yesterday. Four people died, and 13 were wounded. (Photo by Hadi Mizban/Associated Press)
Sunni insurgents, left, on parade in Ramadi, have declared an Islamic state. Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, right, gave a somber assessment. (Photo by Mohammed Ameen/Reuters)
(Photo by Al Jazeera)(pg. A10)
A 12-week push by American forces, above, and the Iraqi police to secure Baghdad has fallen short, the United States military command said. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A1) Chart/Map: ''Terror Bombings in Iraq''Shown below are the numbers of terror bombings in Iraqi towns and cities, defined as bombings ''calculated to create an atmosphere of fear and alarm,'' as compiled and vetted from news reports and other public sources by the RAND Corporation, which has tracked incidents of terrorism since 1968.Bombings from Jan. 1 through Oct. 19 of each year.Map of Iraq highlighting number of bombings in the following areas:KirkukMosulBasraTikritBaghdad(Sources by Terrorism Knowledge Base
 National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: John F Burns; William B Iv (Maj Gen) Caldwell

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



468 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Divergent 3rd Quarters For 2 Giants In Banking

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Citigroup seemed to stumble and Bank of America appeared to strut through a messy third quarter as the country's two biggest banks contended with pressures of a slowing economy and higher interest rates.
 Citigroup said revenue remained flat, after a dismal performance by its capital markets group and disappointing international consumer results, but a big tax refund helped its bottom line rise modestly.
Profit from continuing operations rose 6 percent, to $5.3 billion, or $1.06 a share, compared with $5 billion, or 97 cents a share, a year earlier. Net income was down 23 percent, to $5.51 billion, from a year ago, when Citigroup recognized a big gain from the sale of its remaining insurance unit. 
 ''I am a disappointed guy, but the reality is the trend lines are all moving in the correct direction,'' said Charles O. Prince III, Citigroup's chairman and chief executive, who has been under pressure from investors to increase the stock price while cutting expenses.
 ''Even with a flat yield curve, and even with the investment spending, we're making good progress,'' he said.
 Bank of America benefited from its aggressive integration of MBNA, the big credit card company it bought last summer, and the strong performance of its consumer bank even as it faced a tougher operating environment as high interest rates put pressure on profit margins.
 Net income rose 41 percent in the third quarter, but some of this came from selling off its Brazilian retail business earlier this year. Earnings reached $5.42 billion, or $1.18 a share, compared with $3.84 billion, or 95 cents a share, last year.
 Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chairman and chief executive, sounded an upbeat note, suggesting that any trouble from an inverted yield curve might be over. 
 ''If we would have seen it, we would have seen it already,'' he said in an interview. ''I would expect that we would have continued momentum.''
 Yesterday's results appear to reflect the diverging patterns of the two titans of the American banking industry this year. Each is a giant, diversified bank. Each has market capitalization of about $240 billion.
 But over the last year, Bank of America's shares have risen more than 15.4 percent, compared with a 2.8 percent rise for Citigroup, which has paled in comparison with the rest of the banking sector. Bank of America shares closed down 55 cents yesterday, to $53.26. Citigroup's shares closed at $49.87, down 32 cents.
 Despite their bulk, the two big banks have pursued very different strategies. Bank of America has invested heavily in its big retail branch network, which stretches across the United States but has limited ambitions overseas. Citigroup, on the other hand, has far fewer retail branches domestically but vast global investment banking operations, and it has its sights on building out its branch network abroad.
 Citigroup attributed its third-quarter troubles to three main areas: the poor performance of its private equity and alternative investment division; a tougher trading quarter for its commodities, interest rate, and foreign exchange groups; and weak 9 percent revenue growth in its international consumer businesses.
 ''We have done better than that; we can do better than that,'' Mr. Prince told investors and analysts on yesterday morning's conference call. ''I expect better performance.''
 But Mr. Prince seemed more pleased with the bank's United States consumer business, where income increased 23 percent, to $2.24 billion, last quarter. Though the revenue from its large domestic card business rose just 2 percent, that still beat the two previous quarters, in which it declined.
 With the addition of MBNA, Bank of America's credit and debit card income rose to $3.47 billion, from $1.47 billion last year. It now projects at least $850 million in annual savings from aggressive cost savings from the merger.
 The leaders of both banks insisted they had no plans to do major deals soon. With Citigroup's stock price still sagging and a strategy of internal growth, Mr. Prince seemed to rule out a major Western European acquisition like Barclays or Societe Generale.
 ''I have been crystal clear that buying a big bank in Western Europe is not on my agenda,'' he said.
 Mr. Lewis was similarly internally focused. ''Buying something is not a strategic imperative,'' he said. ''We have size and scale already.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); YIELD CURVE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Banks and Banking; Company Reports 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Bank of America

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (58%) Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



469 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Jackson Announces Plan To Help Small Businesses 

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
The Rev. Jesse Jackson acknowledges that minorities have made lots of progress in the last few decades. But he is still frustrated by the slow pace. 
 So Mr. Jackson is stepping back into the arena. In January, his Rainbow/PUSH Wall Street Project, which he founded 10 years ago to prod American corporations into investing in minority businesses, will introduce the Small Business Institute. The institute will have a two-part goal: to teach entrepreneurship skills to teenagers, immigrants and minorities, and to prompt financial institutions to provide them with easier access to capital.
''The ghettos and barrios are underserved markets with untapped spending power,'' he said, ''so we're going to take Wall Street to Main Street. We give microloans in third world countries; why not in East Harlem?'' 
 The need for assistance, he argued, is every bit as great as it was before civil rights legislation ended formal discrimination. Most studies of small business show that minorities are starting businesses at twice the rate of whites, he noted, and that ghetto businesses commonly employ people from the neighborhood. 
 Still, he asserted, white restaurateurs like Danny Meyer -- who started the Union Square Cafe and a succession of other Manhattan restaurants -- have little trouble opening restaurants in New York, yet the Woods family, which runs the popular Sylvia's Restaurant in Harlem, still has only one restaurant in New York. Percy E. Sutton, a black former Manhattan borough president, had to go to more than 50 banks before he could get a loan to buy a black radio station, Mr. Jackson said
 ''Huge pension funds don't hire too many minority-owned money management firms; the legal fees for mergers like Citibank and Chase do not go to black or brown firms,'' he added. ''And the current administration isn't even enforcing E.E.O.C. and contract compliance,'' he said, referring to the laws that govern hiring practices and that require a percentage of federal contracts to be set aside for minority-owned businesses. 
 Mr. Jackson said that once enough minority businesses operated in ghettos, they would be better able to help each other thrive.
 Byron Lewis, a black man who runs an advertising agency called the UniWorld Group, agreed. Mr. Lewis said he still smarted from seeing his first employer, a black weekly newspaper in Harlem, go under. White companies did not want to advertise to the ghetto, he said, and there were not enough black businesses to pick up the slack. 
 ''If more people of color start businesses, then whole neighborhoods will be resuscitated,'' Mr. Lewis said. He expected the Small Business Institute to enlist corporations and banks to provide not just money but also training for would-be minority entrepreneurs in management and technology skills. ''Reverend Jackson's relationships with the corporate world will help bring best-practices training to those that need it,'' Mr. Lewis said. 
 In a sense, the Small Business Institute is entering a well-populated niche. For example, more than 7,000 people have signed up to attend the National Minority Supplier Development Council's conference in San Diego next week, and 825 minority businesses have taken booths at its related trade show. 
 Still, Harriet R. Michel, the council's president, welcomed Mr. Jackson's initiative. 
 ''The future of our communities does rest on continued economic development,'' Ms. Michel said. ''Jesse's ability to focus energy will help him generate interest among minorities to start businesses, and among companies to buy from them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jesse Jackson urged training in entrepreneurship. (Photo by Gil Cohen Magen/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MICROFINANCE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); REFUGEES (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%) Small Business; Blacks; Children and Youth; Immigration and Refugees; Minorities (US); Capital Investment; Entrepreneurship

ORGANIZATION: Rainbow/push Coalition; small business institute

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (93%) Jesse L (Rev) Jackson; Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



470 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE CHURN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 317 words

 BODY:

People
 John W. Snow, the former Treasury secretary, has been named chairman of Cerberus Capital Management, a private equity firm. Mr. Snow, 67, who resigned his cabinet position in May, was a former chief executive of the CSX Corporation, the railroad company. 
Lawrence H. Summers, who resigned in February as president of Harvard University, is joining D. E. Shaw, one of the nation's largest hedge funds, as a managing director. Dr. Summers, an economist who served as Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, will be involved part time in ''various strategic initiatives and high-level portfolio management activities,'' the firm said in a statement. D. E. Shaw, based in New York, has $25 billion in assets under management.
 Debra Wong Yang, the United States attorney in Los Angeles, will join Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher as a partner in its Los Angeles office. Ms. Yang will help lead the crisis management practice group, along with Theodore B. Olson, a partner in the Washington office and the former solicitor general of the United States, and Randy M. Mastro, a partner in New York and the former New York deputy mayor of operations. 
 BearingPoint has named Judy Ethell, its chief accounting officer, chief financial officer. 
 Tom Ostrander is joining Banc of America Securities as a managing director in its global industries group. Mr. Ostander joins from Citigroup.
 Vestar Capital Partners has named Roger C. Holstein, a former chief executive of WebMD, a senior adviser to the firm.
 Matthew Keiser, former senior counsel for employment for the United States Senate, has rejoined Arnold & Porter as counsel in its Washington office. 
 Janney Montgomery Scott has named Randall A. Carbone senior vice president and director of wealth management services. Mr. Carbone was previously with Advest. 
 Daniel P. Raglan, formerly with Sullivan & Cromwell, has joined Greenberg Traurig.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%) Corporations; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (91%); ARNOLD & PORTER LLP (90%); GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (84%); CSX CORP (84%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (84%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); BEARINGPOINT INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); VESTAR CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (84%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (72%); BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



471 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: A Nobel Prize For Wal-Mart?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 John Tierney (''Shopping for a Nobel,'' column, Oct. 17) sets his sights way too low in celebrating Wal-Mart as a force to lift the world out of poverty.
Beyond cheap goods and mass employment stand the ugly consequences of 19th-century capitalism: poverty wages, dire factory conditions, evisceration of downtown shopping districts and a track record of making the environment someone else's problem. 
 To secure our future, today's leading companies are learning how to offer value to customers while minimizing the social dislocation and ecological impact of their operations. 
 Paying a living wage to its American workers and adhering to local labor standards in manufacturing are the least we can ask of the world's biggest private employer. 

Adam Seitchik
Lexington, Mass., Oct. 17, 2006

To the Editor:
 Did John Tierney write ''Shopping for a Nobel'' tongue in cheek? Is he really claiming that there is no more effective antipoverty organization than Wal-Mart?
 Drawing parallels between Wal-Mart, the corporate giant, and the Grameen Bank is beyond belief. The Grameen Bank creates wealth and capital and is about empowerment. Wal-Mart rents labor at the lowest possible price and discards people when they are done. 
 Wal-Mart has long tried to portray exploitation as efficiency, and now, according to Mr. Tierney, it deserves the Nobel Prize.
 Yes, any wage is better than no wage, but to state that overseas factory workers have been lifted out of poverty is a fallacy.
 It has been widely reported that workers abroad in Wal-Mart's suppliers' factories routinely experience forced labor, minimum-wage violations, maternity-leave violations, overtime pay violations and more. 
 We need to understand that suppliers overseas perpetuate inhumane conditions in an attempt to maintain the low prices that Wal-Mart demands.

Andrew Grossman
Exec. Director, Wal-Mart Watch
Washington, Oct. 18, 2006

To the Editor:
 There are several fundamental differences between the Grameen Bank and Wal-Mart.
 The Grameen Bank is owned and controlled by its borrowers. Wal-Mart is not controlled by Chinese laborers. 
 The Grameen Bank supports self-employment for the rural poor precisely so they don't have to ''move hundreds of miles for a job'' if they don't want to. 
 I have spoken with Bangladeshi villagers who were considering relocating to Dhaka to find factory work. They were distressed by the idea of uprooting their families and moving to a slum. 
 Journalists should not celebrate this option glibly. People make such sacrifices to survive.
 But much is lost: social networks are fractured; children lose access to safe and clean places to play; parents cannot be near their children while they work; and employees are often exploited and humiliated on the job. We should try to do better.
 The virtue of microcredit is that it goes to the poor person rather than making the poor person come to it. When it works successfully, it offers a measure of self-determination that low-wage employment does not.
 It also encourages people to accumulate assets, which stabilizes their lives and makes them more future-oriented. 
 Wal-Mart creates ''jobs.'' But people are not born simply to sit on assembly lines and eat. The Grameen Bank and thousands of other microcredit lenders around the world are struggling to expand economic options for the poor in line with their full aspirations as human beings. 

David Bornstein
New York, Oct. 17, 2006

The writer is the author of books about the Grameen Bank and social entrepreneurship.

To the Editor:
 Wal-Mart is indeed deserving of a Nobel, but so are those thinkers who have over the years argued for free markets, private property and liberty. 
 By creating and supporting these institutions, we can do more to promote economic and moral growth than all the government aid programs put together. 

Douglas B. Rasmussen
Jamaica, Queens, Oct. 17, 2006

The writer is a professor of philosophy at St. John's University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); CHILDREN (83%); WRITERS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); LIVING WAGE (77%); MATERNITY LEAVE (77%); OVERTIME (77%); FAMILY (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); ETHICS (75%); RELOCATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (59%) Retail Stores and Trade; Wages and Salaries; Third World and Developing Countries; Ethics; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Wal-Mart Watch (Orgn)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

PERSON: John Tierney; Adam Seitchik; Andrew Grossman; David Bornstein; Douglas B (Prof) Rasmussen

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



472 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: City Plans Middle-Income Project on Queens Waterfront

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced plans yesterday to buy 24 acres of Queens waterfront property for a towering development, which would be the largest middle-income housing complex built in New York City in more than 30 years.
 Under the proposal, the city would bring as many 5,000 new rental units to a largely industrial area of Long Island City, where chic restaurants are just beginning to appear amid low-slung factories and three-family homes.
The new apartments, Mr. Bloomberg said, would be for families of four earning between $60,000 and $145,000 a year, who would pay $1,200 to $2,500 a month in rent. 
 Though the ratio of middle-income apartments to market-rate units would depend on environmental studies and potential cleanup costs, city officials said they were hoping to make the entire complex affordable and to keep it that way for 40 years. 
 ''Not only will it give birth to a new community that's going encourage new growth in Long Island City, and complement our efforts to revive the city's waterfront,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''it will also provide much needed housing for the real backbone of our city, our teachers, nurses, police officers.''
 The mayor emphasized that the deal -- in which the city purchased the land from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for about $146 million -- was ''a smart investment'' that exemplified his administration's plan to build and preserve 165,000 units of lower-cost housing over 10 years. 
 The mayor compared the proposed complex to the most ambitious previous efforts to create middle-class housing in New York: Starrett City, which added 5,888 new units to Brooklyn in 1974, and Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village in Manhattan, a sprawling set of 110 brick towers with 11,232 apartments that has been a working-class haven for six decades. 
 Indeed, the sale of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, across the East River from the new site, seemed to hover over the deal announced yesterday. 
 On Tuesday, Metropolitan Life, the owner of the Manhattan complexes, agreed to sell the property for $5.4 billion to a real estate firm, in a plan that could lead to the loss of many of the buildings' rent-regulated units over the next few decades. Even as tenants pulled together a bid with support from the City Council, the mayor stayed on the sidelines, drawing rebukes from housing activists who questioned his dedication to affordability. 
 Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff had said it was a matter of efficient use of public dollars: preserving the historic units would have cost about $107,000 per unit. In contrast, he said yesterday, the units in the new Queens development would be built for about $54,000 each in city funds. 
 ''So we can get two units here for every one there,'' he said at the press conference announcing the deal, ''plus we get a major increase in the housing stock.'' 
 Mayor Bloomberg interjected, ''You must remember that a lot of the housing units in Stuyvesant and Peter Cooper Village are affordable and will stay affordable for many, many years.''
 He said the new development ''really is a net plus to the city.'' He said its location on the water, where it looks out on the United Nations and the Empire State Building, showed the city's determination to weave affordable housing into areas that might otherwise have become enclaves for the wealthy. 
 ''This is as good a piece of property as you will find,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 The city plans to complete the purchase within 90 days, develop a master plan for a mixed-use development including retail shops and parks, and then solicit bids from private builders, perhaps as early as next year. 
 Housing activists reacted mainly with praise, but also with measures of skepticism.
 Some questioned the income limits, suggesting that they overshot the families in greatest need. But the larger issue seemed to be one of scope and emphasis. 
 Michael McKee, treasurer of the Tenants Political Action Committee, and Tom Waters, a housing analyst with the Community Service Society, repeated a longstanding complaint that new construction will never be enough to offset the loss of rental units that are rapidly moving from regulated to market rate. 
 A study in May by the Community Service Society found that between 1990 and 2005, nearly a quarter of the roughly 121,000 apartments built under federal and state subsidy programs dating from the 1960's and 70's left those programs. This year alone, by the authors' count, New York City will lose more than 5,000 apartments for low- and middle-income families.
 ''This is a blind spot on the part of the mayor and the administration,'' Mr. McKee said. ''They are stubbornly refusing to recognize that they are taking one step forward, three steps back.'' 
 Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who heads a committee of the State Legislature that oversees public authorities, also questioned whether the deal would make efficient use of the Port Authority's land. 
 He said the sale price of about $29 a square foot was ''infinitely less than what the market would bear.''
 Yet for many in Queens, the project seemed to be welcome, and overdue. The waterfront area known as Queens West, of which the land sold yesterday is a part, has been the subject of promised development since the early 1980's. Had the city's bid for the 2012 Olympic Games been accepted, the site would have been used for the Olympic Village. The new development would fill the fallow land just south of a handful of high-rise apartment buildings that have appeared only in the past few years. 
 ''This is one more example of how Long Island City is in the midst of a renaissance,'' said Councilman Eric Gioia, who represents Long Island City and lives in one of the buildings along the water. ''For too long, our waterfront has been neglected and forgotten.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Land along the East River in Queens would be the site of up to 5,000 rental apartments for the middle class, under plans announced yesterday. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)Map of Queens highlighting Queens West development site: The city would pay the Port Authority $146 million for 24 acres.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); FAMILY (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%) Housing

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Damien Cave

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



473 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE NORTH KOREAN CHALLENGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Tells Rice It Won't Abandon Industrial and Tourist Ventures With North 

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
The government of South Korea told Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Thursday that it had no intention of pulling out of an industrial zone and a tourist resort in North Korea, even though the operations put hard currency into the pocket of its government. 
 During a news conference with Ms. Rice, the South Korean foreign minister, Ban Ki-moon, said he had explained ''the positive aspects'' of the industrial park at Kaesong and described how the tourism zone around Mount Kumgang was ''a very symbolic project'' for reconciliation between the Koreas. 
At the end of a dinner here on Thursday that united Ms. Rice with her South Korean and Japanese counterparts, a senior State Department official, speaking on the customary condition of anonymity when traveling with the secretary, said the South Korean government had said it would review its support for the industrial and tourist projects -- in particular the subsidies for the Mount Kumgang zone.
 ''We never expected them to announce steps today,'' the official said.
 In her public comments, at least, Ms. Rice only emphasized the importance of the United States alliance with South Korea. The goal is not to elevate tensions on the peninsula, but to put into effect sanctions under a United Nations Security Council resolution as a multinational effort to press North Korea to return to six-party negotiations and end its nuclear program, she said.
 ''I did not come to South Korea, nor will I go anyplace else, to try and dictate to governments what they ought to do in response to Resolution 1718,'' Ms. Rice said after meetings with President Roh Moo-hyun and Mr. Ban, who will be the next United Nations secretary general.
 ''What I do think is very important is that everyone take stock of the leverage that we have to get North Korea to return to the six-party talks and negotiate seriously the dismantlement of its nuclear weapons programs,'' she said. 
 Ms. Rice is in the region to press for strict enforcement of the Security Council's sanctions against North Korea for its nuclear test last week. Her toughest job will be persuading South Korea and China, which differ with the United States on how to engage North Korea's reclusive Communist government. 
 The senior State Department official said after the dinner that the South Koreans had said they would ''have a full program in place'' to carry out the resolution in about three weeks, and would not want to announce new steps while Ms. Rice was in town for fear of appearing to bow to American pressure.
 South Korea and China hold the key to the effectiveness of the sanctions, which were passed Saturday after intense negotiations, because they share the longest borders with North Korea, and are by far its biggest economic partners. South Korea's trade with North Korea reached $1.06 billion last year.
 Ms. Rice said that she had received no official Chinese report on a visit on Thursday by State Councilor Tang Jiaxuan to the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, but expressed certainty that he had delivered a strong message that North Korea's ''behavior is unacceptable.''
 She is to fly to Beijing on Friday.
 While the United States has long called for further isolating North Korea to discourage its nuclear ambitions, South Korea has taken a different course. Its decade-old policy of engagement has aimed to ensure peace on the peninsula by opening North Korea to trade, investment and economic interdependence.
 The nuclear test raised calls in South Korea to re-examine the policy. But officials here have said the United Nations sanctions will not end broad economic and trade contacts with North Korea, a stand backed by South Korean public opinion.
 State Department officials describe the tourism zone in particular as a conduit for cash for North Korean leaders. The project, which opens a revered mountain site and hot springs to foreign visitors, has earned North Korea more than $456.9 million in precious hard currency, said its South Korean developers, Hyundai Asan. 
 On Wednesday, Song Min-soon, a security adviser for President Roh, replied that the project ''is not a policy to be changed following somebody's order to do this or that.''
 ''We are not deviating from the international community only because we differ with a certain country,'' he told reporters. ''I'm not going to name that country,'' he added, though the context made it clear he was referring to the United States.
 In his comments beside Ms. Rice on Thursday, Mr. Ban said South Korea was awaiting more specific guidelines from a United Nations sanctions committee working on details of carrying out the resolution.
 But many in South Korea see the United States as trying to drive a wedge between the Koreas, fueling resentment. In a show of support for the engagement policy, Kim Geun-tae, the chairman of South Korea's governing Uri Party, said he planned to visit the industrial park on Friday ''to show symbolically that the inter-Korean economic cooperation projects must continue,'' the JoongAng Daily newspaper reported.
 The Security Council sanctions bar the sale or transfer of material that could be used to make nuclear, biological and chemical weapons or ballistic missiles. They also forbid international travel and freeze overseas assets of people associated with North Korea's nuclear program.


GRAPHIC: Photo: South Koreans in Seoul yesterday protested a visit by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to urge support for sanctions against North Korea. (Photo by Kin Cheung/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); RESORTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); MOUNTAINS (70%); DISARMAMENT (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations; Security Council (Un)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%); BAN KI-MOON (78%) Thom Shanker; Martin Fackler; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Ban Ki-Moon (Sec Gen)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



474 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Make History, Arnold!

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Governors don't often get a chance to make big-time history, but Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California has that opportunity now -- if he's ready to get off the fence. With one move, Governor Schwarzenegger could make California America's hub for developing ''green'' clean-power technologies -- which are going to be the growth industry of the 21st century -- and do something that President Bush has only paid lip service to: really help to end America's oil addiction.
 Do it, Arnold. C'mon, just do it. 
Here's the basic story: This Nov. 7, Californians will be asked to vote yes or no on Proposition 87, a ballot initiative that would impose a higher extraction fee on oil pumped in California. (Up to now, oil companies in California have paid a very low extraction fee compared with those in other states -- a rip-off they want to keep.)
 The new funds raised by Prop 87, explained The San Francisco Chronicle, ''would be used to finance research and development of alternative fuels in universities; education campaigns; and subsidies to consumers who buy vehicles that use alternative fuels and businesses that produce and distribute alternative fuels. Oil companies would be taxed between 1.5 percent and 6 percent on oil production depending on the price of oil per barrel. The tax would end by 2017 or when the tax generates $4 billion, whichever occurs first.'' 
 Passage of Prop 87 would be huge. To begin with, it would be the perfect complement to the carbon reduction law that Arnold just signed. That law requires California to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. Prop 87, for its part, sets a goal of a 25 percent reduction in oil consumption in California in 10 years. Today, California consumes about 16 billion gallons of gasoline a year, so a 25 percent reduction, if realized, would put California well on its way to meeting its new carbon emissions goal.
 But Prop 87, by also raising a $4 billion energy fund, and devoting most of it to nurturing new fuels and more fuel-efficient vehicles and buildings, would enable California to consistently enhance those companies, communities and schools now pioneering alternative energies. As anyone who has followed the alternative energy movement knows, one of its greatest weaknesses has been that Washington has constantly started and stopped subsidies for things like solar and wind power -- so technologies have been innovated here but then turned into marketable products overseas. 
 By combining renewable-energy targets and a $4 billion fund to consistently support the start-up of companies to reach those targets in a free-market way, California would set a compelling example for other states -- and maybe even for Washington.
 The reason that Mr. Bush's call a year ago to end our oil addiction has been a total flop has to do with a struggle in his administration between foolish market worshipers led by Dick Cheney -- who insist markets will take care of everything -- and wiser, nuanced policy makers who understand that government's job is to set broad goals and standards, and then let the market reach them. 
 The best example of that is the 1999 Texas Renewable Portfolio Standard -- a state law signed by whom? Gov. George W. Bush! The law required Texas electricity companies to buy a set amount of renewable power by 2009. This stimulated the Texas utilities marketplace to erect huge wind farms. Today, Texas is a real leader in wind energy and has sharply driven down the cost through innovation. 
 President Bush, meet Governor Bush.
 Naturally, oil companies like Exxon Mobil -- which just paid its outgoing chairman, Lee Raymond, $400,000,000 in his final year -- are financing misleading ads to try to fool Californians into rejecting Prop 87. Polls show it's too close to call. And that brings us back to Arnold. He's on the fence. Even though he'll be re-elected in a landslide, he's not come out for Prop 87 -- because he's against higher taxes, in principle. But he hasn't come out against it either. If he, and wife, Maria, openly support it, Prop 87 passes. It's that simple.
 Bill Clinton said it best: ''California is being given an opportunity to do something remarkable to save the planet, improve our national security and create the next generation of good jobs for the American people. That's what Prop 87 represents.''
 And Governor Schwarzenegger can determine whether or not that opportunity is seized. C'mon, Arnold, just do it. No one will remember you for sparing Exxon from a tax hike. And no one will forget you for spurring America to realize the dream of a clean, independent energy economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); BIOFUELS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (87%); WIND ENERGY (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); GASOLINE (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (74%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); HYBRID VEHICLES (71%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); BALLOTS (69%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (66%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Referendums; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Thomas L Friedman; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



475 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: REPUBLICAN WOES LEAD TO FEUDING BY CONSERVATIVES 

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Tax-cutters are calling evangelicals bullies. Christian conservatives say Republicans in Congress have let them down. Hawks say President Bush is bungling the war in Iraq. And many conservatives blame Representative Mark Foley's sexual messages to teenage pages.
 With polls showing Republican control of Congress in jeopardy, conservative leaders are pointing fingers at one other in an increasingly testy circle of blame for potential Republican losses this fall.
''It is one of those rare defeats that will have many fathers,'' said David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union, expressing the gloomy view of many conservatives about the outcome on Election Day. ''And they will all be somebody else.''
 Whether the election will bear out their pessimism remains to be seen, and the factors that contribute to an electoral defeat are often complex and even contradictory. But the post-mortem recriminations can influence politics and policy for years after the fact. After 1992, Republicans shunned tax increases. After 1994, Democrats avoided gun control and health care reform. And 2004 led some Democrats to start quoting Scripture and rethinking abortion rights, while others opened an intraparty debate about the national security that is not yet resolved. 
 In the case of the Republican Party this year, the skirmish among conservatives over what is going wrong has begun unusually early and turned unusually personal.
 But almost regardless of the outcome on Nov. 7, many conservatives express frustration that the party has lost its ideological focus. And after six years of nearly continuous control over the White House and Congress, conservatives are having a hard time finding anyone but one another to blame. 
 ''It is pre-criminations,'' said Rich Lowry, editor of National Review, the conservative magazine. ''If a party looks like it is going to take a real pounding, this sort of debate is healthy. What is unusual is that it is happening beforehand.''
 Some conservative leaders have often been quicker in the past to turn on Republican officials and one another than their rank-and-file supporters. But this year polls show broad disaffection at the grass roots, prompting some Republicans -- including former Speaker Newt Gingrich -- to worry that the public sparring could dampen turnout. 
 This year's antagonists also include some new critics, including Mr. Gingrich's one-time lieutenant, Dick Armey, the former House Republican majority leader. 
 In recent weeks, Mr. Armey has stepped up a public campaign against the influence of Dr. James C. Dobson, founder of Focus on the Family and an influential voice among evangelical protestants. In an interview published last month in ''The Elephant in the Room,'' a book by Ryan Sager about splits among conservatives, Mr. Armey accused Congressional Republicans of ''blatant pandering to James Dobson'' and ''his gang of thugs,'' whom Mr. Armey called ''real nasty bullies'' -- arguments he reprised on the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal and in an open letter on the Web site organization FreedomWorks.
 In an interview this week, Mr. Armey said catering to Dr. Dobson and his allies had led the party to abandon budget-cutting. And he said Christian conservatives could cost Republicans seats around the country, especially in Ohio.
 ''The Republicans are talking about things like gay marriage and so forth, and the Democrats are talking about the things people care about, like how do I pay my bills?'' he said. 
 Mr. Armey also pinned some of the blame on Tom DeLay, the former Republican House majority leader, who ''was always more comfortable with the social conservatives, the evangelical wing of the party, than he was with the business wing.''
 Mr. Armey, who identifies himself as an evangelical, said he was tired of Christian conservative leaders threatening that their supporters would stay away from the ballot box unless they got what they wanted. 
 ''Economic conservatives,'' he argued, were emerging as the swing voters in need of attention, in part because they had become more likely to vote Democratic in the years since President Bill Clinton was in office. ''A lot of people believe he brought us from deficits to surpluses, and there is a certain empirical evidence there,'' Mr. Armey acknowledged.
 In a statement on Thursday, Dr. Dobson said Mr. Armey was ''still ticked'' over a long-ago House leadership race in which Dr. Dobson endorsed someone else, and he restated his warnings to Republicans that social conservative voters ''would abandon them if they forgot the promises they had made.'' 
 In a recent newsletter from Dr. Dobson's organization, Representative Mark Souder, an Indiana Republican counting on Christian conservatives to turn out for his re-election, called Mr. Armey's comments ''disgusting'' and insulting to ''the many Christians around the United States who devoutly hold conservative moral beliefs.''
 Christian conservatives began complaining last year that the Republicans had put proposed Social Security changes and tax changes ahead of issues like abortion and same-sex marriage, risking the support of social-issue voters. 
 Over the summer, Congress held a rush of votes on just those issues -- an election-year ritual intended to motivate those voters -- and in an interview last week Tony Perkins, president of the Christian conservative Family Research Council, said he believed it had begun to revive some grass-roots enthusiasm. 
 ''But the Foley scandal just let the air out of the tires,'' Mr. Perkins said.
 Others dismissed the Foley scandal as largely irrelevant outside of Mr. Foley's district. Several conservatives said Republican incumbents were using it as a scapegoat. 
 ''It will make you feel better to say, I didn't lose the election; Foley lost it for me,'' said Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform. ''Your wife and kids will believe it.''
 Mr. Norquist said the Iraq war was the biggest drag on Republican candidates even before their big wins in 2004. 
 ''Some people think we did it just to prove we could do it, like people who go running with weights on their ankles,'' he said. 
 Many blame neoconservatives who argued most vocally for the invasion of Iraq. ''The principal sin of the neoconservatives is overbearing arrogance,'' Mr. Keene said. Neoconservatives, in turn, blamed Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's insistence on holding down troop levels for the fouling up of the war
 ''There is a bit of a battle between people who say, Hey, your tax cuts wrecked our war and people who say, Hey, your war wrecked our tax cuts,'' said David Frum, a former Bush speechwriter who was among the war's proponents.
 Mr. Frum argued that the problem with the Iraq war was in its execution, not in the idea behind it. ''The war has to be seen through the prism of Hurricane Katrina,'' he argued, ''because conservatives will support a tough war if they are confident in the war's management.''
 William Kristol, editor of the conservative Weekly Standard and another prominent advocate of the invasion, said he doubted that soaring spending was turning off as many voters as tax-cutters like Mr. Norquist or Mr. Armey suggested.
 ''The spending bill that was supposedly going to destroy the Republican Party was the Medicare drug bill,'' he said. ''I have heard almost no one talk about it one way or the other.'' 
 Mr. Kristol argued that the Bush administration was suffering politically for applying too little force, not too much. ''I am struck that people have the sense in North Korea and Iran that things are spinning out of control,'' he said. 
 Mr. Frum and others blamed the Republican Senate's support for the president's guest-worker immigration proposal for angering the grass-roots talk-radio crowd. But Mr. Norquist, who favored the immigration proposal, argued that the election would provide a verdict on ''restrictionism'' in the fate of Randy Graf, a Republican candidate in Arizona running on calls for tighter borders. Polls show Mr. Graf faces long odds.
 Mr. Gingrich, for his part, made the best of the fray, saying, ''I would rather have a movement active enough to bite itself rather than a movement so moribund it didn't realize it was irritated.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''A Blame Game''With polls showing their power in Congress in serious jeopardy, the factions of the right are pointing fingers at one another over who should bear responsibility.SOCIAL CONSERVATIVETony PerkinsPresident, Family Research Council''The Foley scandal has taken the air out of the tires.''Interview with The New York TimesNEOCONSERVATIVESDavid FrumFormer speech writer for President Bush''If this election features a depression in the Republican vote, one of the major reasons will be the president's immigration proposals. . . . It raises the question, Who are these folks if they are so unresponsive to us on something we care so much about?''Interview with The TimesWilliam KristolEditor, The Weekly Standard''With the exception of Bush's commendable steadfastness in Iraq -- combined, however, with debilitating stubbornness on troop levels and strategy -- and his support for Israel, Bush's foreign policy is now Clintonian in its combination of weakness and wishful thinking.''In his magazineECONOMIC CONSERVATIVESGrover NorquistPresident, Americans for Tax Reform''It will make you feel better to say, 'I didn't lose the election. Foley lost it for me,' and your wife and kids will believe it.''Interview with The TimesPat ToomeyPresident, Club for Growth, a limited government group''The social conservatives had two of the biggest wins they could have hoped for: the confirmations of John Roberts and Sam Alito to the Supreme Court. The economic conservatives don't have that kind of terrific victory to point to.Interview with The Times(pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); TAX LAW (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FAMILY (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); ETHICS (73%); GUN CONTROL (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); ABORTION (52%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (52%) Ethics; Public Opinion; Pages, Congressional

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (59%); AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM (59%); AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION (57%) House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); PAT TOOMEY (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%); JOHN ROBERTS (50%) David D Kirkpatrick; George W (Pres) Bush; Tony Perkins; David Frum; William Kristol; Grover Norquist; Pat Toomey; Mark Foley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



476 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE NORTH KOREAN CHALLENGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: CHINA MAY PRESS NORTH KOREANS 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
China is prepared to step up pressure on North Korea in coming weeks by reducing oil shipments, among other measures, if the country refuses to return to negotiations or conducts more nuclear tests, Chinese government advisers and scholars who have discussed the matter with the leadership say.
 If Beijing does take a tougher line on its neighbor and longtime ally, the action is likely to bolster its relationship with the United States. Washington has urged Chinese leaders to use all the tools at their disposal to put additional pressure on Kim Jong-il, the North Korean leader.
Among the most potent of those tools is oil. China provides an estimated 80 to 90 percent of North Korea's oil imports, shipped by pipeline at undisclosed prices that Chinese officials say represent a steep discount from the world market price. Any reduction in that aid could severely hamper North Korea's already faltering economy.
 Several leading Chinese experts said senior officials had indicated in the past week that they planned to slap new penalties on North Korea going beyond the ban on sales of military equipment imposed by the United Nations. But they would be likely to hold off if Mr. Kim agreed to return soon to multilateral talks North Korea has boycotted since September 2005. Years of talks have produced meager results. 
 Discussions about how to respond to the nuclear test, which was described by one expert as a ''political earthquake'' for Chinese leaders, come amid a flurry of diplomacy aimed at ironing out enforcement of United Nations sanctions and luring Mr. Kim back to negotiations.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is to arrive here Friday to meet with Chinese officials. On Thursday in Pyongyang, Mr. Kim met a delegation sent by President Hu Jintao of China, the first diplomatic contact with the North Korean leader since the nuclear test on Oct. 9.
 There was no immediate word on what Mr. Kim told the Chinese, but Beijing experts said he would most likely have declined to meet with the delegation, headed by a cabinet-level official, State Councilor Tang Jiaxuan, unless he hoped to head off additional penalties by promising to resume negotiations.
 ''China is going to have to make some crucial choices in the coming days,'' said one senior international relations specialist who has participated in top-level discussions of the matter but asked to remain anonymous. ''I think Chinese leaders are prepared to take a hard line, but Kim may be smart enough to try to divide China and the U.S.''
 China and the United States already have some differences over how to enforce the United Nations sanctions that they and the rest of the Security Council voted for last Saturday. Beijing says it will not interdict North Korean cargo ships at sea, as the United States and Japan have recommended, and has warned against seeking to use the sanctions to provoke a confrontation.
 ''All sides need to consider how to implement Resolution 1718 in a balanced way and not devise ways to willfully expand the sanctions,'' Liu Jianchao, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, said Thursday, referring to the Security Council resolution banning the sale or transfer of missile- or nuclear-weapons-related goods to North Korea. ''Sanctions are the signal, not the goal.'' 
 But Chinese experts who have taken part in discussions about how to manage the situation said that after North Korea's missile tests in July, Chinese leaders concluded that Mr. Kim might not negotiate a way out of the impasse unless he had no other choice. Officials felt badly stung by the nuclear test and have dug in their heels on ending the nuclear program there, the experts said.
 China has opposed military action or an embargo to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons to its Korean War ally and has subsidized Mr. Kim's its government despite gross human rights violations. But it is also wary that Mr. Kim may set off an arms race in Northeast Asia and prompt Japan and South Korea, and even Taiwan, to seek nuclear weapons. 
 Beijing's relations with North Korea have been strained for many years, and some Chinese officials argue that Mr. Kim wants a nuclear trump card to intimidate China as much as the United States. 
 In the wake of the test, President Hu renewed his government's commitment to ''a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula,'' and ruled out recognizing North Korea, as a fellow nuclear power, they said.
 ''I believe that Chinese leaders are firmly resolved to roll back the nuclear program and not accept it as an accomplished fact,'' said Zhang Liangui, a Korea expert at the Communist Party's Central Party School in Beijing who has favored taking a tougher line.
 ''I do not think that the resolve of the Chinese leadership is going to be less than the resolve of the American leadership,'' he said.
 Others agreed, arguing that as long as the Bush administration kept its focus on a diplomatic solution, China would work to maintain solidarity with the United States.
 ''The only issue that they do not agree on is interdiction at sea,'' said Xu Guangyu, a retired general who is now a member of the Chinese Arms Control and Disarmament Association, a government-sponsored institute. ''For the most part the United States has responded to this with the right tone, so I don't see a major obstacle to cooperation.''
 Mr. Xu said the question now was not whether China and the United States could maintain common ground, but rather how Mr. Kim would respond to the universal condemnation of his test. ''The matter is in his hands,'' Mr. Xu said. ''If he returns to negotiating, the pressure will ease. If he conducts another test, that would be very reckless.''
 Chinese officials have already begun carrying out measures intended to increase the pressure.
 Customs officers have begun inspecting cargo passing through Dandong, a major trading post with North Korea. China Southern Airlines, the only Chinese carrier that flies to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, announced that it had suspended service to the city.
 Chinese banks, fearing possible freezes on assets, have restricted some forms of transactions involving North Korean interests while expanding a crackdown on suspected laundering of drug money and counterfeiting by individuals and front companies associated with North Korea, according to Chinese officials and local news reports.
 More important, Chinese officials have discussed staged reductions in oil shipments if North Korea ignores international pressure, scholars who have been told about the leadership's planning said. 
 Beijing is also North Korea's leading provider of grain, but is not likely to suspend food shipments. North Korea suffers severe food shortages, with about a third of the population depending on imported grain.
 China has not threatened publicly to cut off oil supplies, and it has resisted imposing economic sanctions. Instead, it has emphasized reviving the six-nation nuclear talks that collapsed a year ago. At least superficially, that puts China on the same page as the United States, which has called for a diplomatic solution to the crisis. 
 China has put much more emphasis on the process of negotiating than has the United States, which has expressed interest only in the results. Beijing argues that resuming talks would de-escalate the crisis, giving Mr. Kim an incentive to freeze his nuclear activities and making it possible to find a peaceful way out.
 Some Chinese experts speculate that Mr. Kim, having proved that he has mastered at least the basics of manufacturing atomic bombs, may now be willing to return to the table, feeling he can demand a higher price for agreeing to discontinue the program.
 ''Kim has done nothing but anger China for the last few months,'' said Shi Yinhong, a foreign policy expert at People's University in Beijing. ''But he could be smart enough to make a concession now, just before Rice visits, to create some trouble for the United States.''
 After Mr. Kim twice ignored China's stern warnings -- first when he tested ballistic missiles in July, and then when he exploded a nuclear device close to the Chinese border -- many officials here felt chagrined about having sheltered him, people who discussed the situation with the leadership said.
 ''The people who were the most critical of Kim in the past were a minority,'' said one scholar. ''But they have a bigger voice now. The people who had the most favorable interpretations of Kim's actions are for now keeping quiet.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Empty Chinese trucks waited yesterday to enter North Korea, while North Korean trucks filled with iron ore made their way into northern China. (Photo by Stephen Shaver/Bloomberg News)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); BOYCOTTS (70%) Atomic Weapons; Atomic Energy; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (79%); HU JINTAO (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) Joseph Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (79%) North Korea; China

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



477 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Bush Campaigns for 2 Lawmakers Caught Up in Controversy 

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Kathleen Phalen Tomaselli contributed reporting from Richmond, Va.

DATELINE: LA PLUME, Pa., Oct. 19 

 BODY:
It is not every day that a United States president visits this tiny farm and quarry town of 603 residents, where the ''breaking news'' story discussed on local radio Thursday was about two men caught breaking deer-hunting laws.
 And it is certainly not every day that the current president stumps on behalf of a fellow party member fighting for his political life after recently admitting to an extramarital affair -- but denying his mistress's accusation of abuse -- in a usually reliable Republican township here in northeastern Pennsylvania. In fact, it can safely be said that this president has never before done so. 
But President Bush did come here on Thursday to lend crucial support to Representative Don Sherwood, whose confessed infidelity has put his House seat into jeopardy. And far from seeming to hold his nose, Mr. Bush strongly embraced Mr. Sherwood, firmly shaking his hand as they stood on the stage, smiling for the flashing cameras, and then telling supporters, with gusto, ''I'm pleased to be here with Don Sherwood: he is the right man to represent the people of the 10th Congressional District from the state of Pennsylvania.''
 The president also accompanied Mr. Sherwood; his wife, Carol and his daughter Maria to a local ice cream shop, ushering photographers over to take a picture of him with the Sherwoods, ''a little family-style, eating ice cream.''
 The appearance with Mr. Sherwood, at Keystone College, was the first of two stops that added up to a sort of Double Trouble Tour for Mr. Bush, who went from here to Richmond, Va., to a fund-raiser for Senator George Allen, who has been accused of using racially insensitive language and who has appeared to bristle at the recent revelation that his mother was born Jewish. 
 Democrats on Thursday cast the presidential visits as signs of anxiety at the White House and among national Republicans in this election year, mockingly calling it part of ''Character Counts Week'' in e-mail to reporters.
 Local liberals, however, found it none too surprising.
 ''That's how desperate he is to keep this one seat that he would actually support this man,'' said Chris Darko, 49, who was one of dozens of people who turned out to protest the war in Iraq, and had to take black electrical tape off her mouth to speak. (It was worn to protest the United States' treatment of terrorism suspects, she said.) 
 But the White House said it was living up to commitments made to candidates who still had the president's support, though Tony Snow, the White House spokesman, declined Thursday to address directly the specific controversies involving Mr. Sherwood and Mr. Allen. 
 ''The president understands it's important to set high standards,'' Mr. Snow told reporters. ''But the other thing the president is doing is he's going to go out and let the candidates speak for themselves on this.''
 Mr. Bush did not dodge the issue of the Sherwoods' marriage, going so far as to refer to a letter that Carol Sherwood sent to constituents over the weekend -- and that easily made its way to local newspapers -- chiding her husband's Democratic opponent, Chris Carney, for mentioning the affair in a commercial.
 ''Private humiliation is one thing to endure,'' Ms. Sherwood wrote. ''But to be repeatedly, publicly humiliated is quite another.''
 Mr. Bush turned to her on the stage, where she sat smiling, and said, ''I read Carol Sherwood's letter to the citizens of this Congressional district. I was deeply moved by her words.'' 
 The president moved on to what he said were the two issues that mattered the most this campaign year, taxes and terrorism, beginning what may have been his strongest attack against Democrats so far this campaign season. 
 ''As this campaign gets closer to the stretch,'' he said, ''you will hear a lot of rhetoric and a lot of partisan charges coming from the other side. Their goal is to distract you from the two main issues in this campaign.'' 
 The White House did not make it easy for reporters to come here and report on his message. They were offered no directions and no charter plane to get to La Plume -- far from Washington. White House officials said that was because the White House Correspondents Association, which organizes press transportation, did not ask for a plane, concluding that even with one, reporters could not catch both events. 
 Steven Scully, president of the association, said that was true, but he found fault with the scheduling by the White House. ''They certainly weren't making it easy for us to get up there; there's no question about that,'' Mr. Scully said.
 At least this event was open to the press, he noted -- unlike many others on Mr. Bush's campaign schedule. And members of the news media were also invited to Mr. Allen's event, to which the White House did offer directions. 
 At the Virginia event, Mr. Bush did not talk about the problems that have arisen in Mr. Allen's campaign, calling the senator a ''good man of strong principles'' while focusing most of his remarks on tax cuts and the economy.
 Outside the event, several hundred protesters drummed while chanting ''Allen is a racist'' and ''Impeach Bush.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush was greeted yesterday by Senator George Allen and his wife, Susan, in Richmond, Va., where they were to attend a fund-raiser.
President Bush looked over to Representative Don Sherwood
his wife, Carol
 and his daughter Maria yesterday at a fund-raiser in La Plume, Pa. (Photographs by Mandel Ngan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ETHICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); ICE CREAM (65%); IRAQ WAR (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Election Issues; Ethics; Finances

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) George W (Pres) Bush; Donald L (Rep) Sherwood; George (Sen) Allen; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Pennsylvania; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



478 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Sony, Battered by Recalls, Lowers Profit Outlook

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Sony sharply cut its profit forecast Thursday because of costs from a global recall of laptop batteries and price cuts in Japan for the next-generation PlayStation 3 video game. 
 Sony now expects a net profit of 80 billion yen ($677 million) for the fiscal year through March 2007, down 38 percent from the 130 billion yen ($1.1 billion) it projected in July.
The lower estimates indicate the company's deep troubles as it tries for a turnaround under its first foreign chief executive, Sir Howard Stringer.
 Sony said the recall now included 9.6 million batteries worldwide, including 90,000 in Vaio notebook computers, forcing it to take a charge of 51 billion yen ($432 million) for the quarter. The company initially said the battery recalls would cost $169 million to $254 million.
 Sony may need to further lower its projections if losses related to the battery recall grow, said Tatsuya Mizuno, an analyst at Fitch Ratings here. Toshiba has said it may demand compensation from Sony, and others may follow suit.
 ''The battery problem is not a simple one-time problem for Sony because it hurts the company's reliability as a supplier in its core electronics sector,'' Mr. Mizuno said.
 The problem stems from lithium-ion batteries that can short-circuit, causing some computers to overheat or even burst into flames.
 Sony-made batteries have been recalled in recent weeks by Apple Computer, Dell, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Sharp and Toshiba. Sony is recalling its own Vaio laptops, further trimming earnings.
 In addition, a 20 percent price cut in Japan for the basic PlayStation 3 console will decrease video game earnings, the company said.
 There are no plans to lower prices in the United States or other markets. The American price for the basic version is $499; a version with three times the storage capacity costs $599.
 The machines are to go on sale in Japan and in the United States in November, but production delays have forced Sony to delay sales in Europe until March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); PRODUCT RECALLS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); EXECUTIVES (55%); FIRES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Batteries; Recalls and Bans of Products; Computer and Video Games; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Protection; Playstation 3 (Video Game System)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (95%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%); FUJITSU LTD (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Sony Corp

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); FUJ (LSE) (57%); 6702 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006



479 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Sunny Side Up; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Companies Find a Risk-Free Way to Adopt Solar Power

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
General Motors liked the idea of using the sun to power its buildings. But until recently, one immutable economic fact held G.M. back: The upfront costs were simply too high to justify the ultimate payoff. 
 G.M. is not alone. Even solar energy's biggest fans concede that the high investment costs have kept companies from pursuing what is arguably the cleanest, most renewable and least politically sensitive energy source around.
But now, G.M. and a small but growing number of other companies and municipalities are getting solar energy from systems installed by others. Even though the installations are right on their own roofs, they buy the electricity much as they would from a utility's grid. And because the companies that paid for the systems will get a steady income, they can provide power from the sun at competitive electricity rates.
 Since June, the roof of G.M.'s parts warehouse in Cucamonga, Calif., has been host to a photovoltaic array with the ability to generate as much as 1.5 million kilowatt hours of electricity a year. The installation, which G.M. expects will provide half of the building's electricity, cost G.M. nothing. 
 A solar developer called Developing Energy Efficient Roof Systems -- commonly called Deers -- bought the equipment with money it raised from private financiers. Deers and its investors own the cells; G.M. signed a long-term contract to purchase the solar-generated electricity from them, at a discount to the prevailing rate for electricity in the region.
 These days, that rate is 9 cents to 10 cents a kilowatt hour; G.M. expects that the solar system will reduce its overall electricity costs by 10 percent a year.
 ''We assume the risk, because we know that companies like G.M. have budgets to buy electricity, not to spend millions of dollars generating it,'' said Jack P. DeLiddo, president of Deers.
 G.M. is already negotiating with Deers to put a similar solar array on a warehouse in nearby Fontana. ''The savings are small, but it's exciting to create such an environmentally sound project without any need to shell out capital,'' said Kamesh Gupta, manager of planning and programs for General Motors Energy and Utility Services, which purchases all the energy used by G.M. 
 Similar deals are cropping up elsewhere. Some specify that the users pay the solar developers a fixed rate for electricity, while others specify a fixed discount to the going rate.
 Other factors are involved as well. The parties generally negotiate who will retain potential credits for reducing carbon emissions. When the developers and their backers keep the carbon abatement credits, they generally plan to sell them to companies that might otherwise have trouble complying with rules planned in California and expected elsewhere aimed at limiting global warming.
 The electricity users could do that, too, but some of them might also use the credits to offset emissions from other parts of their operations. 
 But the same logic underpins all of the deals: The electricity users get a clean, reliable source of energy. The developers and their backers get an equally reliable return on their investment -- which can be as high as $6,000 per kilowatt hour of capacity -- as well as the tax credits and rebates that California and other states offer for renewable energy projects.
 ''Corporations like solar energy, but they would rather make sizable investments in their core businesses,'' said Craig Hanson, head of the Green Power Market Development Group, a consortium of large companies working under the auspices of the World Resources Institute to promote renewable energy. ''But for the financiers, it's like buying the bond of a triple-A-rated company. It may not offer a 20 percent return, but it's a stable and secure investment.'' 
 The ''solar services model,'' as Mr. Hanson calls the solar contracts, is drawing interest from a diverse group of companies and financiers.
 Alcoa is negotiating with developers to put solar cells on a manufacturing plant, although it will not specify details. General Electric Energy Financial Services has installed solar roofs that provide half the electricity used by 23 San Diego schools. 
 Kevin Walsh, the G.E. unit's manager for renewable energy, said the company was installing another seven. ''For a financier like us, it's a nice, steady stream of revenue with the risk virtually eliminated,'' Mr. Walsh said. His unit, he said, is negotiating with a ''big box retailer'' to install solar roofs on some of its stores.
 Retailers, which normally operate with the kind of razor-thin margins that cannot support large capital investments on anything but the core business, have been particularly receptive to the solar services model. 
 Whole Foods Market, in a deal with SunEdison, a solar project manager financed by a group of investors that includes Goldman Sachs, has solar cells providing about 10 percent of the energy it uses in three stores and one warehouse, and plans many more. ''There's just no downside,'' said Jennifer McDonnell, green mission specialist for Whole Foods. 
 Staples, which has two distribution centers in California that derive about 15 percent of their electricity from 280 kilowatt solar arrays installed by SunEdison, also plans new ones. It recently put a 120 kilowatt system on an office building in Englewood, N.J., and is planning a large solar array for a distribution center in Killingly, Conn. 
 Mark Buckley, vice president for environmental affairs, said he had identified 140 stores that seemed to be prime candidates for similar installations. 
 ''We are a frugal business with low margins, so we cannot justify the cost of a solar system,'' he said. ''This way, we've got no capital investment, no operating expenses, and we're lowering our energy costs even as we reduce our carbon emissions. This is a true win-win.''
 That does not mean the deals are free of risk. They are not feasible in locations where the sun does not shine consistently through the year, or in states that do not offer tax incentives and rebates. 
 The economics do not work for the many industrial companies that have negotiated below-market electricity rates. Users must commit to buying a set amount of energy for at least 10 years.
 Older buildings often have aged roofs that cannot support conventional photovoltaic cells (although Mr. Walsh of G.E. Energy Financial Services said his group used a technology that embedded the photovoltaic cells in a new, and removable, roof).
 Companies must also persuade their own managements -- or in the case of leased buildings, their landlords -- to allow the installations. And, of course, the economics only make sense to people who think that prices for conventional energy will keep rising. 
 ''We have an incentive to make sure the systems work well, because that's how we make our money,'' said Jigar Shah, who founded SunEdison in 2003 and is generally thought to have pioneered the solar services model. ''But let's face it, we are putting a hole in their roof, so they have to trust we can do it properly. And if you think electricity rates will go down, these long-term contracts don't look good.''
 But few economists are predicting that electricity rates will plummet. And, even if they do, solar energy would still appeal to companies worried about carbon emissions and looking at ways to improve their public image.
 ''The energy is clean, and the fixed-price agreement doesn't fluctuate,'' Ms. McDonnell of Whole Foods said. ''Seeing whether solar would work is now on our check list for every one of our new stores.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A property manager examines the photovoltaic cells on the roof of a General Motors warehouse in Cucamonga, Calif. The cells have the capacity to generate as much as 1.5 million kilowatt hours of electricity a year. (Photographs by Jill Connelly for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (95%); ROOFING MATERIALS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%) Electric Light and Power; Solar Energy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Developing Energy Efficient Roof Systems; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



480 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS: BASIC INSTINCTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Relax, It's Just Preschool

BYLINE: By HILLARY CHURA. 
Hillary Chura is a writer in New York.

 BODY:
DON'T tell anyone, but my husband and I plan to send our toddler to a public prekindergarten program.
 It's not just the outrageous cost -- about $17,000 a year for a 4-year-old to learn his letters, or more on a per-pound basis than Harvard. Our neighborhood public schools on Manhattan's Upper East Side are some of the finest in the city (a factor when we relocated) and we just don't think exclusive for the sake of exclusive is necessary. Still, the fear is that you really do get what you pay for, and no parent wants to gamble with their child's future.
With the emphasis on early childhood development, many parents who hear of our decision, nod, say ''ohhh,'' and position themselves between their children and our son. It's as if we are dooming our first-born and his 7-month-old brother to a lifetime of wanton mediocrity instead of paving their way into the joint M.D.-Ph.D.-law programs of their choice. 
 It's not that my husband and I are opposed to expensive education. He obtained a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago and his undergraduate degree from Yale. My parents lived on lentils for four years so I could attend Smith College. Short of buying the right scratch-and-win ticket or having a generous uncle take care of us, we will do the same for our sons should they go that route. 
 So I sought confirmation that our sons' college diplomas would not depend on their prekindergarten pedigree.
 ''People can look too far down the road,'' said Cynthia Bing, head of school advisory services at the Parents League of New York, which counsels parents primarily interested in nonpublic schools. Harvard's dean of admissions, ''is never going to ask where your child went to preschool or elementary school,'' she said. Phew. So maybe it is O.K. to use the savings during the 13 years in question to expose our sons to Mandarin or Spanish language classes, music and sports as well as interesting educational trips, fun experiences and supporting our school's parents' association.
 We felt the same conflict last year when our son was accepted to one of the city's sought-after nursery school programs. (We ultimately elected not to send him.)
 Thanks to my husband's economic foresight to go into finance, we perhaps could stretch and afford private school if we were to forgo extravagances like protein and retirement planning. But the two of us, both products of public primary schooling, believe that environment would expose our sons to a greater diversity of people and ideas than they could experience in a private setting. Our sons will benefit from a great education while we support a civic institution that is essential to growth and equality of opportunity in our city. 
 ''There are a lot of unattractive aspects to New York private schools with the level of elitism and noblesse oblige -- beginning with the parents and ultimately sifting down to the children,'' said Nancy Lieberman, author of ''Admissions'' (Warner Books, 2004), a novel about a Manhattan family's quest to get their daughter into one of the ''right'' high schools. But, she cautioned, with parents' associations so active in fund-raising at public schools, ''there is such a level of required participation.'' 
 But, putting subjective issues aside we wanted metrics to compare area public and private schools. Sources like the Department of Education nces.ed.gov, schooldigger.com, psk12.com and schoolsk-12.com allow you to examine school size, some demographics and occasionally test scores in public or private -- but rarely both -- schools. The material, however, can be dated. Apple-to-apple meters are hard to pinpoint since students at independent schools rarely take the mandatory tests as do their counterparts at public schools, said Myra McGovern, spokeswoman for the National Association of Independent Schools. 
 ''It's often a choice of choosing between right and right versus right and wrong,'' Ms. McGovern said. 
 Education can be as much about whom your children sit beside as what they learn, said Christopher Lubienski, a University of Illinois professor. A study he released this year reported that, once demographic characteristics are controlled for, fourth- and eighth-graders in public school performed as well as or better than students at private schools on math tests.
 ''In a sense, you're not purchasing a type of school,'' Mr. Lubienski said. ''You're purchasing a peer group who your kid goes to school with.'' 
 Sure, this decision may make us less-than-cool on the playground. But right now, only our children think we're cool. And that won't last. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (76%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%) Education and Schools; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Children and Youth

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: Hillary Churn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



481 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The Dow Soars, and Consumer Prices Sink

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
GOOD week for the stock market. Not so for the man who used to run it.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed above 12,000 for the first time on Thursday, the same day that a New York judge ordered the former head of the New York Stock Exchange to return most of his fiercely contested retirement package.
Several statistics suggested inflation was slowing, but the latest corporate scandal accelerated.

DOWN, BUT NOT OUT -- A New York judge ordered Richard A. Grasso, the former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, to return as much as $100 million of the $139.5 million payout that he received when he resigned in September 2003. 
 Justice Charles E. Ramos of State Supreme Court in Manhattan said Mr. Grasso did not disclose to other directors on the board of the exchange how salary increases had caused his pension and savings to balloon. The judge also said Mr. Grasso violated his contract by withdrawing millions from his retirement fund before he retired.
 The judge did not directly address the central claim in a lawsuit brought by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, that Mr. Grasso's pay was unreasonable under the state's not-for-profit law. But the ruling bolstered Mr. Spitzer's argument that the exchange's board was not fully informed about Mr. Grasso's compensation. 
 Mr. Grasso said he would appeal, which would further delay a nonjury trial that had been scheduled to start last month.

DOWN, BUT STILL UP -- Falling energy prices helped bring consumer prices down by half a percentage point in September, the Labor Department said, although the so-called core inflation rate -- excluding food and energy prices -- rose 0.2 percent, as it did in July and August.
 Economists and stock traders took the Consumer Price Index report, and another that said the number of new building permits fell in September for the seventh consecutive month, as evidence that the economy was slowing and that higher interest rates would not be needed soon.
 That optimism was tempered by the Labor Department's news that the core consumer inflation rate is running at 2.9 percent for the year -- the highest level in almost 11 years. 
 Federal Reserve policy makers will discuss interest rates on Tuesday and Wednesday; they are expected to keep rates at 5.25 percent.

DOUBLING DOWN -- With sales growth in the United States slowing, Wal-Mart agreed to pay $1 billion for Trust-Mart, a group of Taiwanese-owned supermarkets in China, to become the biggest foreign chain in that rapidly expanding market.
 Acquiring Trust-Mart, which has more than 100 stores across China, pulls Wal-Mart even in China with Carrefour, the giant French retailer.
 The purchase also reverses Wal-Mart's recent pullback abroad. In the last year, Wal-Mart has pulled out of Germany and South Korea, and has failed to make much headway against strong competitors in Japan and Britain.
 By more than doubling the number of stores Wal-Mart owns in China, this deal will help it secure lower prices from suppliers. That, in turn, could lead it to double in size again by 2010, one analyst said.

DOUBLING UP -- The Chicago Mercantile Exchange agreed to buy its crosstown rival, the Chicago Board of Trade, for $8 billion, creating a global derivatives goliath that dwarfs other capital markets.
 The merged exchange would meld the Mercantile Exchange's strengths -- as a major market for interest rate contracts, currencies and livestock -- with the Board of Trade's dominance of Treasury bond futures, grain contracts and now ethanol.
 Executives at both companies said they had been engaged in serious merger talks almost as soon as the Board of Trade first sold shares to the public a year ago.
 Once the merger is completed, probably in the middle of 2007, the exchanges will consolidate in the Board of Trade's landmark 44-story Art Deco tower in Chicago.

THE FINAL OPTION -- Dr. William W. McGuire, who built the UnitedHealth Group into one of the nation's two largest health insurers, was forced to resign and give up a portion of the $1.1 billion he holds in stock options.
 A law firm hired by UnitedHealth to investigate its stock option grants concluded that the program was riddled with poor controls and conflicts of interest that permitted executives to backdate their options grants to maximize their compensation. 
 Dr. McGuire's departure came amid a federal investigation into whether more than 100 companies backdated stock options. Backdating lets companies pretend to have given options to managers just before stock prices jump, assuring the executives quick profits without having met performance goals that would benefit all shareholders. 
 Scores of companies are rushing to restate their results to reflect lower profits and higher taxes attributable to suspicious options grants.

REGULATOR FALLS -- Lester M. Crawford, former chief of the Food and Drug Administration, pleaded guilty to conflict of interest and lying about stock he and his wife owned in companies the agency regulates.
 Dr. Crawford sold stock in several companies, including Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Pfizer, Medtronic and Boston Scientific, before the Senate approved his nomination in July 2005. But he and his wife, Catherine, retained shares in Sysco, PepsiCo and Kimberly-Clark, each of which has businesses regulated by the agency. Prosecutors said Dr. Crawford also owned options to buy 41,500 shares in Embrex, a biotechnology company regulated by the F.D.A.
 Dr. Crawford is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 22. He faces a maximum of one year in prison and a $100,000 fine on each of two counts.

REAL ESTATE FRENZY -- Building permits and other indicators suggest a slowing real estate market, but that did not deter Tishman Speyer Properties from offering $5.4 billion to buy 110 apartment buildings in Manhattan, one of the biggest real estate transactions ever.
 The 11,232 apartments, in developments called Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, were built after World War II as affordable housing for returning veterans.
 Metropolitan Life, the insurance company that owns the apartments, said it expected to complete the sale before the end of the year.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Oct. 14 through Oct. 20:
1. Wallflower at the Web Party
2. Not Coming Soon to a Lot Near You: Chinese Cars
3. For the Super-Rich, It's Time to Upgrade the Old Jumbo Jet
4. Wal-Mart Said to Be Acquiring Chain in China
5. Is Windows Near End of Its Run?

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Metropolitan Life sold 11,232 apartments, in developments called Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, to Tishman Speyer for $5.4 billion. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (83%); INSURANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); FUTURES (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); ETHICS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); LIFE INSURANCE (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RETAILERS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BUILDING PERMITS (62%); STOCK OPTIONS (58%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Ethics; Bonuses; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds; Food; Supermarkets; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Futures and Options Trading; Medicine and Health; Stocks and Bonds; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Housing; Stuyvesant Town (NYC); Stocks and Bonds; Peter Cooper Village (NYC); Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%) Nyse Group; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Trust-Mart (Co); Chicago Mercantile Exchange; Chicago Board of Trade; Unitedhealth Group; Food and Drug Administration; Tishman Speyer Properties; Metropolitan Life Insurance Co; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (64%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (64%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%) Mark A Stein; Charles E (Judge) Ramos; Richard A Grasso; William W (Dr) Mcguire; Lester M (Dr) Crawford

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%) China; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



482 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Viewed From Abroad, the Dow at 12,000 Isn't So Impressive

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average is setting records in the United States, trading over the 12,000 level for the first time this week. But when adjusted for inflation, the American stock market lags behind those of many other countries, and appears to be going nowhere fast. 
 The chart accompanying this article shows the last 10 years of the Dow, with the level adjusted for changes in the Consumer Price Index. After adjusting for inflation, it remains around 15 percent below the highs it reached in 2000, and has made little progress in recent years.
The charts also show the inflation-adjusted performance of major stock indexes in seven other countries over 10 years through the end of September. 
 They show that the world changed. For some major industrial countries, the last five years have been dull at best. But for emerging markets, and for countries more dependent on commodity production and exports, the period has been stronger than earlier periods.
 The three best countries among the eight over the last five years were the Asian ones -- Japan, Singapore and India. They were also the only three markets that fell during the prior five years.
 Among the non-Asian countries, only Canada, with an economy much more dependent on natural resources than the others, turned in a better performance over the most recent period than it had in the earlier years.
 The most recent five-year period began at the end of September 2001, after markets around the world plunged following the Sept. 11 attacks but well before most markets hit bottom.
 During that period, the Dow rose 3 percent a year on average after adjusting for inflation, outperforming only Britain, where the gain was just 1.2 percent. 
 But in India, where inflation-adjusted share prices in 2001 were lower than they had been 10 years earlier, the five-year period saw share prices rise at an amazing rate of almost 30 percent a year. 
 In Japan, which endured a long period of poor economic and stock market performance after the stock market bubble burst in 1991, the annual inflation-adjusted gain for the market the last five years came to 10.6 percent a year. That figure is greater than the combined growth rates over the period for the United States, British and German stock markets.
 All the figures reflect adjustment based on local consumer price indexes. Because currency movements do not move in lockstep with inflation rates, and because the charts do not include dividend payments, they do not reflect actual returns in each market for international investors.
 But they do reflect the purchasing power of a basket of local stocks over time in each market, and thus provide an insight into the way market movements can look to local investors. 
 To them, neither the United States nor the major European markets appear very strong.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Performance of the stock markets since September 1996, adjusted for inflation''Figures from September 1996 to September 2006.UNITED STATESDow industrialsFIVE-YEAR CHANGE'96-'01: +5.9%'01-'06: +3.0%CANADAS.& P.-TSXFIVE-YEAR CHANGE'96-'01: +3.2%'01-'06: +9.2%BRITAINFTSE 100FIVE-YEAR CHANGE'96-'01: +1.8%'01-'06: +1.2%FRANCECAC 40FIVE-YEAR CHANGE'96-'01: +12.5%'01-'06: +3.2%GERMANYDAXFIVE-YEAR CHANGE'96-'01: +8.6%'01-'06: +5.3%INDIASensexFIVE-YEAR CHANGE'96-'01: -8.5%'01-'06: +29.0%SINGAPOREStraits TimesFIVE-YEAR CHANGE'96-'01: -7.7%'01-'06: +13.5%JAPANNikkei 225FIVE-YEAR CHANGE'96-'01: -14.7%'01-'06: +10.6%(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Records and Achievements; Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); JAPAN (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); INDIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (76%) Canada; Great Britain; France; Germany; India; Singapore; Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



483 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Where Young Refugees Find a Place to Fit In

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: UTICA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Standing on the midfield line, Win Zaw bellowed, ''Left!'' and Muridi Ukash dashed toward the left corner of the goal box, where the ball Win had arched perfectly landed at Muridi's feet. With a leg-twisting dribble, Muridi eluded the goalkeeper to score.
 ''Gosh, these guys are incredible,'' Joe Koperda, a freckled 13-year-old with braces, said from the sidelines.
Under a sprinkle of rain on a recent Saturday afternoon, Win, who is 14 and came here three years ago from Myanmar, formerly Burma; Muridi, also 14 and from Somalia; and a melange of other refugees from at least a half-dozen countries were competing for spots on a travel soccer team coached by Joe's father, Mike Koperda, who was born in Utica 47 years ago. 
 Throughout the summer, some of these players joined in a series of pickup games in the park that resembled a younger, sweatier United Nations summit meeting. But the eight competitive squads in Mr. Koperda's New York Dash Soccer Club offer the only year-round soccer option in this down-on-its-luck city with little else to offer teenage boys from far away.
 The players would probably never meet other than on the soccer field, where, they say, it does not matter how well they speak English; a nod or a simple ''right'' or ''left'' is enough to send a teammate to the sweet spot. 
 ''In school, the Americans bother me because they know how to speak English better than me,'' said Muridi, a member of the Bantu tribe, whose members were enslaved and persecuted in Somalia until the early 1990's, when civil war forced them to flee to Kenya's desolate refugee camps. 
 ''Here,'' he said, surveying the field, ''everybody is the same.''
 In Utica, a robust influx of refugees over the last 15 years kept the housing and job markets afloat during tough economic times. But the local resettlement agency, like its counterparts around the country, has struggled since the Sept. 11 attacks, as government funding has dwindled along with the number of refugees admitted to the country.
 The agency, the Mohawk Valley Resource Center for Refugees, has cut its staff in half and canceled youth programs, said its executive director, Peter D. Vogelaar. Soccer has since become a critical assimilation tool for teenage boys, who often confront extra problems in trying to adjust to their new lives in the United States. (Mr. Koperda's club is open to girls, but refugee girls tend not to join the games here.)
 ''When you watch a middle-class American kid playing next to this refugee kid, sharing tips, laughing together, it's amazing,'' Mr. Vogelaar said. ''These games are about creating opportunity for people who would not otherwise relate to work together. Ideally, that's what we'd like to see happen in the whole city.'' 
 Utica was once a bustling industrial hub, dotted by textile mills that hummed day and night and employed thousands of Irish, Italian, German and Lebanese immigrants. Locomotives chugged along a vast network of tracks and boats plied the Erie Canal, ferrying goods and spurring growth deep into western New York State. 
 At its peak, in the 1950's, the city had 125,000 residents, an Air Force base, and a collection of ornate buildings that belied its blue-collar roots. But as the textile industry crumbled and factory jobs migrated south, Utica lost half its population over 40 years, exhausted its finances and stood perilously close to collapse.
 In recent years, though, an influx of refugees has helped stem the decline: as of 2003, about 11,000 of Utica's 60,000 residents were refugees.
 ''We were hemorrhaging,'' the city's mayor, Timothy J. Julian, said in an interview. ''Then the refugees started coming here and we got this new burst of life.''
 ''In many ways,'' Mayor Julian added, ''we owe our survival to the refugees.''
 And many of the young refugees say they owe their survival here to soccer, a respite from trying, chaotic and often lonely lives.
 Abdi Chivala, 19, a courteous Somali Bantu who speaks with a slight lisp, is too old to join Mr. Koperda's club -- players must be 8 to 18 -- but he was a regular at the summertime scrimmages, which ended in sideline chats rich with accents, and showed up for the tryouts anyway. 
 After 12 years at a refugee camp in Kenya where education meant disjointed lessons in dirt-floor huts, Mr. Chivala said he struggled at school, unable to read or write, when he moved to Utica in 2004. He did not know how to dress for class, he said, or what to do once he was at his desk.
 When he stepped inside Thomas R. Proctor High School here for the first time, he was terrified.
 ''I didn't know nobody, I didn't have no friends and I didn't look like the other people in my class,'' Mr. Chivala recalled of his first days at the school. ''The kids, they looked at me because I was different.''
 Win, the Burmese boy, had similar feelings. ''I was the only Asian kid in the room,'' he said in the living room that doubles as a bedroom for him and one of his five brothers, Pyae Phoe Aung, a 9-year-old who spends most weekends lost in his video games.
 At the refugee camp in Thailand where he grew up, Win said, he played soccer with members of Myanmar's national team, who had also fled the country after its bloody military coup in 1988. Mr. Chivala, for his part, made soccer balls at the refugee camp in Kenya by tying T-shirts tightly together, and fashioned goal posts out of branches or broomsticks.
 ''At the camp, we played soccer to forget,'' Mr. Chivala said, shivering in a sweaty jersey after the tryout.
 Here, young refugee boys play soccer to belong. Win played for his middle school's team last year, and in March he joined Mr. Koperda's soccer club, making his first American friends. 
 ''We teach more than just soccer here,'' said Mr. Koperda, who picked up a nimble 10-year-old boy from Myanmar at the Sept. 30 tryout. ''In a nice way, we teach structure and discipline.
 ''Many of these kids here don't even have the benefit of having their parents watch their games,'' he added. ''Refugee parents are always working and the kids are raising themselves in rough neighborhoods, but soccer can offer them some type of stability.''
 Resettlement experts said that young refugee children were apt to quickly learn to speak English without an accent and adapt to school routine, but that teenagers typically found themselves in a frustrating race against time, trying to cram a full education into a few years. (Age, not academic background, determines the grade placement of refugee children in schools in the United States.) 
 In most cases, these teenagers have to decipher the language and culture on their own, since parents do not know it or are too busy to be able to help. 
 ''They're guys with big feet,'' said Ruben G. Rumbaut, professor of sociology at the University of California, Irvine, who studies the refugee experience in the United States. ''They're stumbling around, trying to figure out their place in the adult world, and they don't always get it right.''
 A 2002 study by the nonprofit Center for Multicultural Human Services in Virginia found that inadequate education, lack of family support and cultural divides may lead teenage refugees to aggression, vandalism and serious violation of rules, such as skipping or dropping out of school and running away from home.
 But young refugees who take part in structured activities are less likely to get in trouble, said Julianne Duncan, associate director for children's services in the Migration and Refugee Services office at the United States Conferenceof Catholic Bishops, one of the country's largest resettlement agencies.
 ''And to a lot of these kids,'' Ms. Duncan said, ''a team sport like soccer works as the greatest equalizer.''
 After the soccer tryouts here, Muridi, four other Bantu boys and Yo Yoh, a 13-year-old Burmese who arrived in Utica last year, went to dinner at the home of Richard Mueller, an assistant coach at the soccer club. As chicken sizzled on the grill, three of the boys played pool and Yo played table tennis with Mr. Mueller's teenage son, Paul.
 Meanwhile, Muridi and Shay Callahan, an 11-year-old girl with long blond hair who also plays soccer at the club, danced and sang along to a Justin Timberlake tune that boomed from the stereo.


GRAPHIC: Photos: For Abdi Chivala, a 19-year-old Somali, soccer was a way to cope in a Kenyan refugee camp. In Utica, N.Y., where he moved in 2004, it is a way to make friends. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 The chance to play year-round competitive soccer drew boys from at least a half-dozen countries, like Aung Moe Oo, left, a Burmese, to a recent tryout for the New York Dash soccer club in Utica, N.Y. (Photographs by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); REFUGEES (91%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); MEN (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); IMMIGRATION (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%) Soccer; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%) New York Dash Soccer Club (Utica, NY)

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); SOMALIA (93%); MYANMAR (93%); KENYA (90%) Utica (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



484 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Boy and His Parents Are Found Dead in Park

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY; Cassi Feldman and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A couple and their 4-year-old son were found shot to death early yesterday in a secluded nook of the sprawling Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx, apparently killed in a murder-suicide, the police said.
 The couple, identified by relatives and the police as Aldrick Jarvis, 31, and his wife, Jessica Jarvis, 30, were found lying on the ground beneath trees in the southwestern part of the park about 20 feet from a burgundy Nissan Xterra. 
Their child, Jacob Cartier Jarvis, was found strapped into a booster seat in the back of the Nissan, the police said, and appeared to have been shot in the face at close range. Officers found two lollipops near the vehicle's stick shift and a blue crayon in the back seat.
 The Jarvises were pronounced dead just after 8 a.m. The police said they were not looking for suspects and believed that Mr. Jarvis had shot his son and his wife before turning the gun on himself.
 Gina Guadalupe, Ms. Jarvis's sister, said that the couple had been together about 11 years but that their marriage had been strained recently.
 Ms. Guadalupe and the women's mother lived with the Jarvises in a prewar apartment building at 3191 Rochambeau Avenue, just southeast of the park and less than two miles from the crime scene.
 According to Ms. Guadalupe, her sister, a physician's assistant, had recently threatened to leave Mr. Jarvis, who was unemployed.
 ''She was just a very good person, she was very loving and caring,'' Ms. Guadalupe said through tears. ''Everybody loved her and the baby.''
 Detectives were still working with forensic evidence and witnesses to piece together the chronology of the crime. But, the police said, it appeared that after the vehicle was parked, Mr. and Ms. Jarvis got out, arguing, and that he then returned to the passenger side and smashed the window, either with a gun or his fist. 
 The police said they had received reports of shots fired around 7:45 a.m. When officers arrived, they found the adults' bodies at the muddy edge of a parking lot in a part of the park near the Van Cortlandt Golf Course. The bodies were in a neat line, as if the two had been facing each other when the shots were fired, according to the police. 
 Ms. Jarvis had been shot several times. A 9-millimeter Beretta lay between the couple, the police said, and Ms. Jarvis was face down, while Mr. Jarvis was on his back.
 Two shell casings were found outside the vehicle and another two inside, the police said. Aside from splattered blood, the interior of the vehicle was pristine, the police said, and the boy was crisply dressed in carpenter jeans and brand-new white Adidas running shoes.
 The shootings jarred early-morning dog-walkers and joggers, who relish the normally peaceful park.
 Frank Banks, 50, said he heard two gunshots as he was walking his dog. The gunfire was followed by a 10-second pause, he said, and then one or two more shots. Mr. Banks said that about half an hour later he returned to the parking lot for his vehicle and found the area swarming with police officers. 
 Rosaleen Flynn, 54, who lives across the hall from the family, said she often saw them returning from the park and described Jacob as a bubbly, yet polite, boy. ''They always seemed so happy, never had arguments or nothing,'' Ms. Flynn said.
 The family's apartment door was festooned yesterday with decorative cobwebs and plastic spiders for Halloween. Ms. Guadalupe said the couple had been on their way to a pediatrician's appointment. Jacob's fifth birthday would have been Monday.
 ''I just miss her and I miss my nephew,'' Ms. Guadalupe said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers gathered in Van Cortlandt Park, where they think a man killed his family and himself. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); MURDER (90%); DEATHS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); TEEN SUICIDE (77%); WITNESSES (77%); FORENSICS (77%); CHILD CAR SEATS (75%); DOGS (72%); SUICIDE (72%); CHRONOLOGIES (71%); EVIDENCE (70%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Children and Youth

PERSON: Cara Buckley; Jacob Cartier Jarvis; Aldrick Jarvis; Jessica Jarvis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Van Cortlandt Park (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



485 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1838 words

HEADLINE: Doctors Rethink Widespread Use Of Heart Stents 

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
The medical community is having second thoughts about stents. 
 Tiny metal sleeves placed in arteries to keep blood flowing, stents have become such a popular quick fix for clogged coronary vessels that Americans will receive more than 1.5 million of them this year.
And stents are a big business, generating $6 billion a year in sales for their makers and thousands of dollars in fees for each procedure performed by the specialists implanting them. 
 But now stent sales are falling and some doctors are rethinking their faith in the devices, driven by emerging evidence that the newest and most common type -- drug-coated stents -- can sometimes cause potentially fatal blood clots months or even years after they are implanted. 
 The Food and Drug Administration said yesterday that it would hold hearings in early December to consider whether to issue new stent safety guidelines. 
 The evidence indicates that overuse of stents may be leading to thousands of heart attacks and deaths each year, whether because stents are being used in relatively mild cases where drugs should be prescribed instead, or because patients are receiving drug-coated versions where simpler, cheaper bare-metal devices might work just as well. 
 There is no question that stents have saved countless lives in the short term by preventing impending heart attacks or opening arteries while an attack is being treated. But neither type of stent, no matter how much better it may make a patient feel, has been shown in rigorous clinical trials to improve long-term survival compared with other forms of treatment. 
 ''In the past we'd say, 'Why not?,' '' said Dr. William O'Neill, a well-known cardiologist at the University of Miami and longtime advocate of using drug-coated stents. But the new safety data, he said, amounts to ''a big why not'' for many patients. 
 The new evidence has added to a long-simmering debate over whether doctors have been too quick to prescribe stenting -- whether because drugs would work as well for healthier patients or because bypass surgery might help the sickest ones live longer. 
 With the older bare-metal stents, the main drawback was the tendency of the repaired artery to become clogged again, in a process known as restenosis, that in severe cases led to repeated procedures or the trauma of more invasive bypass surgery. Drug-coated stents are credited with cutting the frequency of severe restenosis by about half. 
 But now the drug-coated versions are being shown to carry their own, potentially even more dangerous risks.
 Stent makers and some doctors who use them argue that those risks are being overblown. New, less alarming interpretations of the clotting data are expected to be showcased next week at a conference in Washington of stent equipment makers and more than 10,000 doctors who do the procedures. 
 Those presentations will argue that even if delayed clotting is more common with the drug-coated stents than with metal stents or bypass surgery, the overall death and heart attacks rates are similar, according to spokesmen for the companies and conference organizers.
 For those in the industry, the medical question has big financial implications.
 The stenting specialists are typically not the physicians who would prescribe surgery or a drug regimen to heart patients. And so a downturn in the use of stents could have a direct impact on the specialists' livelihoods.
 But even some of the nation's busiest stent centers, like Mt. Sinai Medical Center in New York, say the risk reports have made them more cautious. 
 ''Six months ago, about 92 percent of the stents we used were drug-coated,'' said Dr. Samin K. Sharma, the director of interventional cardiology at Mt. Sinai. ''Now we are down to 85 percent.'' 
 He cites the case of a patient, Jerry Ford, a 63-year-old Queens woman, who suffered a heart attack on Sept. 10. Last Monday she received three bare-metal stents from Dr. Sharma in a procedure that only a few months ago, he said, would have involved drug-coated devices. 
 Mrs. Ford said from home the next day that she was happy with the choice because it was clear that Dr. Sharma thought it the best option. ''But my daughter and I are going on the Internet now to research more about it,'' she said. 
 Stents, which first came into use in the 1990's, are inserted in arteries via a thin plastic catheter tube threaded through the circulatory system, usually starting from a small incision in the thigh. The stent, a hollow mesh cylinder, props an artery open after plaque has been pushed aside by inflation of a tiny balloon.
 Drug-coated stents cost an average of about $2,200 each in the United States, nearly three times the price of bare-metal ones. Despite the higher price, they quickly captured more than 85 percent of the United States market after their introduction in this country two years ago. Overseas, where national health insurers have been more reluctant to pay the higher prices, drug-coated stents have caught on more slowly. 
 By reducing restenosis, the drug-coated stents are believed to have saved tens of thousands of patients from the risks of follow-up stenting procedures or bypass surgery. But it would take a study involving tens of thousands of patients and as many as five years to produce highly reliable data on whether those benefits offset the risks of the blood clotting now associated with the drug-coated stents.
 So far, the published data suggest the clotting risk is small -- occurring in perhaps fewer than one in every 500 patients. And yet with so many of the drug-coated devices now in use, at least 2,160 extra deaths occur each year in the United States alone, according to a guest editorial published last week in Cardiosource, the online journal of the American College of Cardiology (www.cardiosource.com/editorials). Clotting has always posed a risk during and shortly after stenting. But the clot risk virtually disappears for bare metal stents after a few months, allowing patients to stop taking anticlotting drugs. 
 The new data suggests that the risks never go away for the drug-coated stents that now dominate the market. No one is yet sure why. But many researchers believe the stents can create a home for clots, because either their drugs or the stents' plastic surfaces inhibit complete healing of the vessel wall. 
 The safety debate has been simmering since a report put a spotlight on the issue last March at the American College of Cardiology annual meeting. 
 Doctors really began paying attention at the end of August. That is when two European studies presented at an international medical meeting in Barcelona, Spain, reported evidence of long-term clotting risks with the two best-selling drug-coated stents, which are made by two American companies, Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson. 
 That meeting was followed by a startling disclosure in early September by Boston Scientific, which said that it had met with the F.D.A. on Aug. 1 to share data indicating that its Taxus drug-coated stent showed higher clotting risks than did bare-metal stents. 
 When the F.D.A. asked Johnson & Johnson about the issue, the company said that, contrary to the reports from Europe, it had yet to find any evidence of higher clotting risks in its drug-coated stent, the Cypher. 
 The late-summer events had an almost immediate impact on medical practice. 
 Goodroe Health Solutions, a health care consulting company in Atlanta, said last week that the 78 hospitals responding to its most recent client survey had cut the share of drug-coated stents they used to 84.5 percent in September, down from 86.9 percent in August. 
 For people who receive drug-coated stents, the standard protection against the clotting risk is long-term use of aspirin and the drug Plavix. But aspirin is a known stomach irritant and some patients get severe rashes from Plavix and bruise easily. And all patients must stop taking Plavix if they require any type of surgery, because it promotes bleeding. 
 What is more, Dr. O'Neill said, many poor patients cannot afford the drug -- a daily dose sells for about $4.
 Advocates of drug-coated stents point to evidence that many clotting cases involve stents that were not fitted snugly to the arterial wall.
 That misstep can be eliminated if doctors monitor their work during the procedure with new ultrasound scanning technology as well as the standard arterial X-rays known as angiograms, according to Dr. Matthew Holland, a cardiologist in Boulder, Colo. 
 Dr. Holland says he continues to use drug-coated stents in nearly every case where it is physically possible to fit them into the diseased artery.
 But other doctors' uncertainty is starting to show in the declining sales of stents. Just this week, Boston Scientific said that its third-quarter stent sales, $572 million, were 4.8 percent lower than a year earlier. 
 Johnson & Johnson, whose Cypher is the only other drug-coated stent currently sold in this country, said this week that its worldwide stent sales of $627 million in the quarter included a 6 percent decline from a year earlier in the United States. Its sales in Europe were down 3 percent.
 Several competitors are still anxious to enter the domestic market, including medical giants like Medtronic and Abbott Laboratories and smaller players like Conor Medsystems whose products are already on the market overseas.
 Some have claimed that results to date suggest their products have little or none of the clotting risks. Because none of them plan to apply for F.D.A. approval before next year, it is unclear whether or how the agency's new scrutiny of stent safety will affect their prospects. New stents will not address the issue of whether too many patients get stents instead of first trying therapy with drugs, including statins, that might improve their condition. 
 ''I see it all the time,'' said Dr. Sanjay Kaul, a co-author of the recent Cardiosource editorial. He said his cardiology practice at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles included many ''high-powered executives'' who did not want to be bothered with taking pills to manage attacks of angina, the chest pains associated with narrowing coronary arteries. 
 Dr. Kaul said the overuse of stenting reflected a quick-fix mentality among patients and the financial incentives of doctors and hospitals to implant stents instead of prescribing drugs. 
 But stent advocates like Dr. Holland said patients demanded the stents because they provided more complete relief from pain, and because they wanted to avoid the potential side effects of the cocktails of heart drugs, which can include fatigue, sexual dysfunction, depression and light-headedness.
 Dr. Holland says a typical patient profile might be a 55-year-old engineer at one of Boulder's high-technology companies who is an avid outdoorsman and cyclist but hobbled by chest pains. To offer such a person drug therapy instead of the quick and more reliable relief of a stent, Dr. Holland said, ''just doesn't fly.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Samin K. Sharma of Mt. Sinai Medical Center in New York checks a patient after a stent procedure. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. C9)Graph: ''Popular Option''As the use of stents has grown, the drug-coated stent has quickly come to dominate the field.Graph tracks U.S. stent sales since 2002.(Source by Citigroup)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); BLOOD DISORDERS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); CARDIOLOGY (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); CLINICAL TRIALS (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (61%) Heart; Doctors; Stents (Medical Devices); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Blood Clots; Implants; Heart

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: Barnaby J Feder

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



486 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: China's Milestone, Our Millstone

 BODY:
The Chinese sell a lot of merchandise in the United States and, in the process, accumulate a lot of dollars. They then loan many of those dollars back to the United States in exchange for all manner of American i.o.u.'s, including Treasury bonds, federal agency bonds, and private-sector debt. 
 America's indebtedness to China, as a result, is staggeringly high, although the Bush administration -- which needs foreign loans to help finance the budget deficit -- seems unfazed. But there is reason for pause. The Wall Street Journal reported this week that China's holdings of foreign currency and securities would soon top $1 trillion, a fivefold increase since 2000. Roughly 70 percent of that is believed to be in dollars or dollar-based assets.
 Of course, $1 trillion does not confer significantly more clout than, say, $990 billion. But the size and growth of China's holdings mean increasing vulnerability for the United States. 
 For several years, China's loans have helped to keep prices and interest rates low in the United States, and to finance big tax cuts. If the lending began to dry up -- because Chinese officials decided to diversify into other currencies or to spend more at home -- prices, interest rates and taxes in the United States would very likely rise. If the loans dried up quickly -- a worst-case scenario -- the result could be a sharp financial crisis. A gradual shift could mean a long downward trend in American living standards as a higher cost of living took its toll. 
 China might never pull back in a way that harmed the United States. But the fact that it could already makes the global financial system more volatile. Investors and traders are hypersensitive to any hint that Beijing may switch allocations. 
 The Journal also reported that administration officials are concerned that developing nations, unhappy with conditions on loans from the International Monetary Fund, may decide to borrow directly from China. That would give Beijing more influence over emerging markets and their governments.
 To its credit, the Bush administration has repeatedly stressed that the rise of China is not to be feared or begrudged. But excessive borrowing during the Bush years has made the United States unnecessarily vulnerable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); COST OF LIVING (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); TRENDS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TAX LAW (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (64%) Editorials; Credit; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States International Relations; Currency; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



487 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Entrees Break the $40 Barrier, And, Sorry, the Sides Are Extra

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR

 BODY:
A new dish is appearing on menus across the nation. Restaurateurs say they have little choice other than offer it, though it horrifies many customers. 
 That item is the $40 entree.
Until recently, such prices were the stuff of four-star, white-tablecloth meals, the kind that ended with a diamond ring on the petit four tray. But now entrees over $40 can be found in restaurants that are merely upscale, where diners wear jeans and tote children. In geographic terms, New York and Las Vegas have led the charge, and in culinary ones, luxury items like steak and lobster were first and are still most prevalent. 
 But the $40 entree is migrating: to restaurants in Philadelphia, Fort Lauderdale and Denver, and to ingredients like fish and even pasta. Several national chains serve entrees priced above $40.
 ''Forty is the new 30,'' said Richard Coraine, the chief operating officer of Union Square Hospitality Group, which recently began charging $42 for a 1 3/4-ounce appetizer portion of lobster at lunchtime at the Modern in New York. Ten percent of its lunch patrons order the dish, it says. 
 Hovering just below the $40 mark is an even vaster group of $38 and $39 entrees, waiting to cross the line like thirtysomethings approaching a zero-ended birthday. The arctic char at the Indianapolis branch of the Oceanaire Seafood Room chain is $38.50. Metropolitan Grill in Seattle serves shrimp scampi for $39.95. At Mike's, a new steakhouse in Brooklyn Heights, $9.95 chicken nuggets share the menu with $38.95 veal chops.
 Like the $100 Broadway ticket, $200 jeans and the $20 museum admission, the $40 entree is provoking a righteous burst of populist outrage, especially among those who pay their own way. When Angela Dansby, a Chicago diner, sees a 4 in front of a price, she thinks: ''Either this must be out of this world, or it's totally overpriced and I'm not going to order it. It's usually the latter.'' When she does pay, she compensates by skimping on appetizers and wine.
 Restaurateurs say rising rents, ever more elaborate interior-decoration schemes and the increasing cost of premium ingredients -- especially beef and fish -- leave them little choice. Chefs, so fond of listing purveyors on menus, do not want those names to be Tyson and Del Monte. They ''take pride in getting carrots or beets that no one has,'' Mr. Coraine said.
 Bobby Flay acknowledges that ''the needle has moved very fast.'' Mr. Flay recently crossed the $40 mark in his Las Vegas and Atlantic City outposts, though he says he intentionally loses money on many other entrees in order to keep prices reasonable. His entrees at Mesa Grill in New York top out at $34. (When it opened in 1991, the steepest entree was $19, or $28.30 when adjusted for inflation.)
 But what makes the rise of the $40 entree so significant is not just the price creep, it's the sophisticated calculation behind it. A new breed of menu ''engineers'' have proved that highly priced entrees increase revenue even if no one orders them. A $43 entree makes a $36 one look like a deal.
 ''Just putting one high price on the menu will take your average check up,'' said Gregg Rapp, one such consultant. ''My mom taught me to never order the most expensive thing on the menu, but you'll order the second.''
 With just a few keystrokes, restaurateurs can now digitally view the entire history of a dish: how the lamb sold around this time last year, whether it did better when paired with squash or risotto, and how orders rose or fell when the price went from $39 to $41. 
 With a few more clicks and a new stack of paper in the office printer, the menu can be revised to test new prices.
 ''In the old days, restaurateurs printed up menus and they were stuck with them for six months or a year; now they can do it daily, experimenting with price or placement,'' said Tim Ryan, president of the Culinary Institute of America, which teaches menu engineering to all its chefs in training. 
 The towering prices at wildly luxurious restaurants like Per Se and Masa in New York and Alinea in Chicago have set a new price in the collective dining consciousness for a truly top meal, nudging up what diners will pay for far more modest dinners. In Las Vegas, the current talk is about Guy Savoy at Caesars Palace, where desserts alone are $22 each and a meal for two can easily run $500. 
 ''I love when I hear about that stuff, because then Craft becomes inexpensive,'' said Tom Colicchio, chef of the quickly multiplying restaurants, including a steakhouse in Las Vegas. 
 Oddly, as entrees rise in price, they seem to be shedding their traditional accompaniments. Today a $40 main dish is often now just that. Order a side dish, and the entree price climbs dizzyingly close to the 50's. At the highly influential Craft, Mr. Colicchio serves pricey, naked hunks of protein and charges extra for vegetables. (He says the portions are enough for two.) Porter House, a new steakhouse at the Time Warner Center in New York, even charges diners separately for sauce.
 ''I blame Tom Colicchio for this,'' said Barry Okun, a New York lawyer who has established a personal price limit of ''between $50 and $60'' per entree. ''It's not that I'm happy about it,'' he added. 
 Mr. Colicchio acknowledged the influence of his pricing, adding that restaurants like those of the Bistro Laurent Tourondel group in New York ''completely ripped off the concept'' of focusing on individual elements.
 To which Mr. Tourondel replied, ''He should look back at the old-time steakhouse menus that were around way before Craft ever existed.''
 Liz Johannesen, senior manager of restaurant marketing at OpenTable, which takes online reservations for 6,000 restaurants nationwide, said that in the last year diners had started occupying tables for longer periods, mimicking the leisurely pace at the very top establishments and forcing restaurants to raise entree prices because they were turning fewer tables.
 ''Just like in other cultural pursuits, trends filter downwards,'' Ms. Johannesen said.
 That applies to a taste for splurging as well. Kobe and Wagyu beef, from pampered Japanese cattle renowned for their tender meat, is cropping up at restaurants around the nation, according to Technomic, an industry research concern. Steakhouses and sushi restaurants, now so ubiquitous, have trained diners to pay large sums for specific ingredients, leading some to fall for the old ''if it's expensive it must be great'' trick.
 Indeed, no chef needs a menu engineer to explain a time-honored truth of the restaurant industry: many business diners look to spend money, not save it. 
 ''If I'm entertaining clients, it's all about making sure my clients are having the best time,'' said Andrew Passeri, a private banker in New York who last week dined at davidburke & donatella, where he chose the $44 lobster over the $46 Dover sole and the $44 ostrich scramble.
 At those prices, dinner is garnished with a large dusting of skepticism. Underattentive service or an overcooked piece of fish is not merely a minor annoyance but an unjustifiable offense. 
 ''I'm happy to pay good money for something I can't replicate at home,'' said Ms. Dansby, of Chicago, ''but when you get charged these prices for bad service, or quality, or visual presentation that isn't so great, it's really irritating.''
 Two years ago, when Gray Kunz opened Cafe Gray in the Time Warner Center, he said he hoped it would become a destination for secretaries who work in the surrounding office buildings. The priciest entree then was the short ribs at $34. Now they are $38, the chicken is $37, and Mr. Kunz just introduced a lobster ravioli at $41. 
 ''The biggest gasp I ever had at menu prices was the first time I went to Cafe Gray,'' Mr. Okun said. ''It looks like it should be a casual 'stop in here for a bite' place. For the amount of money you're spending, you really want a special experience.''
 Mr. Kunz now calls his restaurant ''right in between the high end and low end'' and said he provided ''good product for very good value.''
 According to Zagat, which measures what diners estimate paying, not actual prices, the average check at the most expensive 200 restaurants in San Francisco has risen 14 percent in the last two years, after remaining fairly stable earlier in the decade. At the 200 priciest restaurants in New York, Zagat users say, checks have followed the same pattern. 
 For his part, Tim Zagat, publisher of the guides that bear his name, said he was almost over the shock of entree prices. But now, he said, he finds himself startled by another development. 
 ''Your $40 plate?'' Mr. Zagat said. ''It comes with a $20 first course.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The good news about the Dover sole's price is that Nick's, unlike a growing number of establishments, does not charge extra for the vegetables.
Nick's Fishmarket in Chicago is just one of countless restaurants, upscale but casual, where price creep has taken many entrees above $40. (Photographs by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times)
(Photo by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times)
(Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)
(Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. A10)
$8 A BITE? -- A lobster dish of 1 3/4 ounces is offered by the Modern in New York. Its price: $42. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1)$40Chart.95Dover sole entree
citrus herb butter, Vesuvio potatoes, sweet peasNick's Fishmarket -- $42ChicagoBeef tenderloin entree
gratin of potato, prosciutto-wrapped asparagus, blue-cheese butterMark's Las Olas -- Fort Lauderdale, Fla.$48Hawaiian big eye tuna entree
 soy-braised Kobe short rib, cauliflower, orange-ginger-glazed carrotsNobhill -- Las Vegas(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MENU PRICES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (71%); INTERIOR DECORATING (65%); EXECUTIVES (53%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Restaurants; Restaurants; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: BOBBY FLAY (58%) Jodi Kantor

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (87%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



488 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
MILLER, WARD MACLAUGHLIN JR.

 BODY:
 MILLER--Ward MacLaughlin Jr., 73, husband, father and successful corporate attorney, died from pancreatic cancer October 17th at his home in Glen Ridge, New Jersey surrounded by his family. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, October 28th at 11:00 am at the Glen Ridge Congregational Church in Glen Ridge, New Jersey. Mr. 
Miller was born February 4, 1933, in New York City, but was raised in Portsmouth, Ohio as the oldest of six children. He kept close ties with Portsmouth where he served as a board member for OSCO Industries. He was a graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard College (cum laude in 1954) and Harvard Law School (1957). He began his legal career at the law firm Carter Ledyard & Milburn. In 1961, he joined Standard Brands, later to become Nabisco Brands, where he rose to Senior Vice-President and General Counsel, and remained there through the RJR-Nabisco leveraged buyout in 1988-89 (adjusted for inflation, still the largest in history), later made famous by the book, Barbarians at the Gate. He was best known not as one of the barbarians, but rather at the gatekeeper looking out for the post-buyout welfare of the employees, thus living up to his nickname, ''Vice-President of Worry''. Altogether his 40year corporate career, mostly with Nabisco and later with Avon Products, Inc., where he served as General Counsel until his retirement in 2001, was a testament to his legal capabilities and personal relationships. Mr. Miller was an active member of the New England Society in the City of New York. He was also a member of the Harvard Club of New York City and the Montclair Golf Club, where he was an avid golfer. He was a news junkie, history buff, lover of maps, and international traveler. Mr. Miller is survived by his wife of 37 years, Mary Anne Miller of Glen Ridge, NJ; his son, Ward M. Miller III of New York City; daughter, Anne Miller and son-in-law Eric Lander, also of New York City; two sisters, Annis Reinkoester and Rosamond Van Aggelen; one brother; Henry J. Miller, and eight nieces and nephews. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the National Foundation for Cancer Research, 4600 East West Highway, Suite 525, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. Donations may also be made to the NFCR at www.nfcr.org. Please specify the Ward Miller Fund for Pancreatic Cancer Research. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); LAWYERS (91%); CALENDARS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (90%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (89%); CANCER (89%); ONCOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HISTORY (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); GOLF (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CARTER LEDYARD & MILBURN LLP (90%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (66%)

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (58%); MARYLAND, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



489 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: A Law to Cut Emissions? Deal With It

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
In August, Peter A. Darbee, chairman, chief executive and president of PG&E, owner of Pacific Gas and Electric, broke rank with his peers by supporting a measure in California that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are widely blamed for global warming. Mr. Darbee discussed his decision and other initiatives in an interview on a recent visit to New York. Following are excerpts:

Q. Why do you support California's Global Warming Solutions Act, which will require utilities and other companies to make their operations even more energy efficient?

A. I dove into the issue with our senior team more deeply than other executives. We engaged in a process of scientific inquiry. Out of that we developed a conviction that the earth is warming, that mankind's responsible and the need to take action is now. I've always been one who's been driven by my conscience as to what is the right thing to do. And we came to the conclusion that that was the right thing to do.
 Secondly, the thought was, as a leader, what you want to do is anticipate trends in the business environment and then position a company optimally within that context. 
 Rather than sitting there and denying that global warming is a problem and climate change is a problem, my reaction was to accept it and to go with the flow to understand the trend, and then say, how can I position PG&E to deal with that challenge, and then how can I turn a challenge into an opportunity.

Q. What do you say to critics who contend that this bill will make California's economy less competitive?

A. In the past, California has stepped out and been a leader on environmental legislation, and its economy has continued to grow probably faster than the average state economy in the United States. California will find a way to continue to grow, notwithstanding this piece of legislation.

Q. How can California and companies based there achieve the goals mandated by the bill?

A. Take a look at Fetzer winery as an example. Ninety-five percent of their waste they can keep on-premise and reuse, 5 percent they ship off, and that is a dramatic reduction. When I went there, their whole building was constructed with energy-efficiency in mind. The walls are pretty thick, and if you look up at the skylights, they have windows that open up at night and let the cool air in, cool down the place. The cool air goes into the walls, and then they close those skylights in the morning, and then they put reflector material up to reflect the heat. They have essentially very little need for air-conditioning at all, because the energy that was lost from the walls is then reabsorbed during the course of the day.

Q. Your ''SmartMeter'' program will allow customers to take advantage of electricity prices that will vary by season and time of day. What percentage of your customers do you estimate will use it?

A. We anticipate 15 percent to 20 percent of our customers will sign up for the program voluntarily, but this could go as high as 30 percent to 40 percent, depending on the level of customer satisfaction and the impact of the marketing strategy that will highlight customer benefits.

Q. How prevalent are such programs in the United States?

A. There are some, but they're limited programs; this would be the first really large-scale deployment, ours will be 10 million meters. We've done a trial with about 5,000 meters, and then beginning in 2007, we'll deploy on a large-scale basis and it will take four years to get 10 million meters in. We've taken the leadership role in California; assuming that it is successful, I believe it will spread across the U.S.

Q. You have completed the nuclear reactor technology program at M.I.T. What is this program and what has it prepared you for?

A. It is a monthlong course, which is designed for utility executives that have involvement with nuclear reactors. The idea is not to teach you to run one; what it does is give you a pretty good understanding of how a nuclear reactor works, the extreme importance of safety to your employees and the public, it gives you an idea of the things that can go wrong in a nuclear reactor, and it gives you the capability that as you're interacting with the people that operate the nuclear reactor, that you can be more effective in managing them, understanding of the facility. We have two nuclear reactors in San Luis Obispo.

GRAPHIC: Photo: PETER A. DARBEE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); TRENDS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%) Electric Light and Power; Law and Legislation; Global Warming; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Pg&e Corp

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (92%); PCG (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (92%)

PERSON: PETER A DARBEE (90%) Peter Darbee; Jane L Levere

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



490 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Regulation and Competition in the Electric Industry 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Competitive Era Fails to Shrink Electric Bills'' (front page, Oct. 15) draws a flawed comparison between fully deregulated industries like telecommunications, and residential electricity, whose deregulation is still in its early stages in the United States. 
In markets with enlightened regulatory policies encouraging competition, the economic benefits delivered to residents are well documented. In fact, industry restructuring saved American residential electricity customers $34 billion over a seven-year period, according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
 Competition empowers residents to take control of their energy usage and expenditures. In Texas, a market close to being fully developed, the Public Utility Commission reported that a Houston resident would have saved $1,450 with the lowest-cost provider over the last four years. A Dallas resident would have saved more than $800.
 Direct Energy sees these benefits serving its millions of customers throughout North America, including more than 30,000 in New York, and we continue to believe that competitive markets best serve residents.

Phillip W. Tonge
Houston, Oct. 17, 2006

The writer is president for United States operations of Direct Energy.

To the Editor:
 ''Competitive Era Fails to Shrink Electric Bills'' demonstrates the real value of the traditional regulated utility model, which has been better able to protect consumers from the kinds of price increases cited.
 Unlike utilities in deregulated markets, full-service utilities continue to plan and build sufficient generation, transmission and distribution assets to meet their customers' existing and future needs. In addition, traditional utilities continue to invest in transmission infrastructure -- another benefit that competitive markets promised yet have failed to produce. 
 The reason traditional utilities are able to provide lower-priced power is twofold. First, rates are regulated by the state and are based on what it costs to produce, transmit and distribute electricity. And second, traditional utilities are better able to diversify their fuel sources because they are focused on the long term and can build power plants designed to use a variety of fuels -- coal, nuclear, natural gas and renewables -- that may require a dedicated investment over time. 
 While deregulated markets continue to sort themselves out, full-service utilities will continue, as they have for decades, to provide low-cost, reliable electric power for their customers.

John B. Breaux
Washington, Oct. 16, 2006

The writer, a former United States senator from Louisiana, is chairman of the Community Power Alliance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (94%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ENERGY REGULATION (58%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Telephones and Telecommunications; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: IHS INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Direct Energy (Co); Community Power Alliance

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: Phillip W Tonge; John B Breaux

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



491 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Call for North Korea to Rejoin 6-Nation Talks on Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
The United States and China spoke in a unified voice on Friday to call for the resumption of six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear program, but they did not announce concrete steps to increase pressure on the North Korean government.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said she had been told by the Chinese government that a special envoy sent by Beijing to North Korea had delivered ''a strong message.'' And the Chinese foreign minister, standing beside Ms. Rice, pledged his nation's commitment to breaking the stalemate over the North's nuclear weapons program. 
 The meetings in Beijing took place after China's special envoy, State Councilor Tang Jiaxuan, returned from Pyongyang, where he had met with Kim Jong-il, the North Korean leader. Chinese officials described the meeting as ''positive'' and ''greatly significant,'' but declined to provide details of what Mr. Kim had said.
 Two South Korean news organizations quoted diplomatic sources as saying Mr. Kim had offered to resume nuclear talks under certain conditions, and said he gave assurances that he had no plans to conduct a second nuclear test, as many in the region had feared.
 Those accounts were not confirmed by either Chinese or American officials, and North Korea held a huge political rally in downtown Pyongyang to ''hail the success'' of its nuclear test.
 Li Zhaoxing, China's foreign minister, said, ''We are ready to maintain and continue to strengthen our consultation and cooperation with all the other parties to strive to break the stalemate as soon as possible and reconvene the six-party talks.'' 
 Ms. Rice stressed that North Korea should return to those talks ''without condition,'' and that the financial restrictions the United States has imposed to crack down on North Korean counterfeiting would not be lifted just to entice the North back to the negotiations.
 In comments later Friday, Ms. Rice expressed confidence that China was committed to enforcing new United Nations military sanctions on North Korea, and that a number of economic and trade measures were under review.
 Asked specifically whether the Chinese were considering halting their oil supplies to North Korea, Ms. Rice said the Chinese government had told her it would ''consider a whole host of measures.''
 Ms. Rice also said the Beijing leadership pledged to be ''scrupulous'' about ensuring that North Korea does not ship prohibited materials across its lengthy border with China.
 As she neared the end of a fast-paced swing through Japan, South Korea and China, with a final stop in Moscow planned for the weekend, Ms. Rice said that halting North Korea's trade in nuclear bomb-making materials and missiles would take time; she emphasized that ''this is an early trip.''
 The six-nation talks over North Korea's nuclear program stalled after multiple rounds in 2004 and 2005. Mr. Kim ignored Chinese pressure to return to the bargaining table before conducting a missile test in July and the nuclear test on Oct. 9.
 Some Chinese experts say they hope Mr. Kim, emboldened by becoming the world's latest nuclear power, is eager to resume negotiations and see the price he can extract in exchange for slowing or scrapping his nuclear program.
 But others here doubt he has any intention of rolling back the nuclear program, the realization of an enormously expensive effort begun by Mr. Kim's father, Kim Il-sung, after the Korean War.
 There were mixed signs on Friday about the potential for resuming talks. Mr. Kim's meeting on Thursday with Mr. Tang was treated as a sign of progress here, if only because Mr. Kim appeared eager to repair relations with his leading benefactor.
 A South Korean newspaper, Chosun Ilbo, citing diplomatic sources in China, said Mr. Kim had ''expressed regret'' for the nuclear test. Ms. Rice, however, said that her Chinese hosts had made no mention of any expression of regret by Mr. Kim. She said that there was nothing surprising in the Chinese summary of the visit by their envoy to North Korea.
 Later in the day, though, the Yonhap News Agency of South Korea quoted diplomatic sources as saying that Mr. Kim had promised not to conduct another nuclear test, an event that China and the United States have said would quickly lead to a much harsher set of sanctions on his already isolated country.
 That account also could not be confirmed.
 It is unclear whether a new offer from North Korea to return to talks, provided certain conditions are met, will persuade China to reduce pressure on Pyongyang.
 The risk for the United States is that China may soften its stance if it perceives that the Bush administration, rather than Mr. Kim, is throwing up obstacles to resuming talks.
 Mr. Kim has pushed to hold one-on-one negotiations with the United States, but the Bush administration has refused to negotiate with North Korea outside the six-party talks. China has urged President Bush to authorize bilateral talks, but he has declined.
 Even so, Chinese scholars who have held discussions with Chinese leaders say that North Korea's missile and nuclear tests, which were conducted despite stern warnings from China, had pushed Beijing toward a less accommodating approach toward its neighbor and onetime ally.
 China twice backed United Nations sanctions against North Korea, and has since then indicated internally that it may be prepared to impose a range of bilateral sanctions if Mr. Kim continues to develop his nuclear program.
 The Chinese leadership, the experts said, is prepared to reduce inexpensive oil supplies to North Korea if it conducts more nuclear tests or refuses to return to talks.
 China has also imposed limited restrictions on banking transactions with North Korea, especially in the trading post of Dandong, on the Chinese side of the North Korean border, bankers there say.
 Chinese analysts said they were not surprised that Mr. Kim would seek to blunt international solidarity against him. But they said they doubted he would be prepared to bargain in earnest about dismantling his nuclear program.
 ''I am pessimistic about the prospects for a diplomatic breakthrough,'' said Zhu Feng, a senior international affairs scholar and arms control expert at Beijing University. ''The talks have to be given a chance, but I see no signs that Kim has undergone a sudden change of heart.''
 Mr. Zhu said he also doubted that China had much patience for inconclusive negotiations or North Korean ''tricks'' to buy time.
 ''I don't think our leaders are prepared to tolerate him much longer,'' Mr. Zhu said. ''My feeling is that they are prepared to implement harsher penalties and will have to proceed with them before long.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met yesterday with Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing of China in Beijing. (Pool photo by Takanori Sekine)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); COUNTERFEITING (50%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (91%); KIM JONG IL (77%) Thom Shanker; Joseph Kahn; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Li Zhaoxing (Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%) North Korea; China; Great Britain; France; Germany; North Korea; Russia

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



492 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Leader Warns West on Support for Israel

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran warned Europe on Friday that continued support for Israel could lead to an act of revenge by those in the Middle East angry about the Palestinians' plight. 
 He issued the warning at a critical time; the United Nations Security Council is expected to begin public deliberations next week on whether to impose sanctions on Iran for defying a United Nations demand to suspend uranium-enrichment activities by the end of August.
Mr. Ahmadinejad, addressing European countries, said, ''People in the region blame you for any crime or invasion against any country and will take revenge on you.'' 
 ''You should know that the rage of people is boiling and is like an ocean that is welling up,'' he said in his speech at a rally here. ''Once its storm begins blowing, it will go beyond the borders of Lebanon and Palestine, and it will hurt European countries.''
 He did not describe what revenge could entail in his speech, which was also carried live on radio.
 The rally was called for Jerusalem Day, held here every year on the last Friday of the fasting month of Ramadan in support of the Palestinian struggle against Israel. Mr. Ahmadinejad told tens of thousands of demonstrators that Israel could not last long after its battle this summer against Hezbollah militants in Lebanon. ''Hezbollah shattered the myth that Israel is undefeatable,'' he said. ''Now Israel has no reason to exist.'' 
 State-run television showed tens of thousands of demonstrators around the country who chanted ''Death to America'' and ''Death to Israel.'' People carried pictures of Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah in Lebanon, and burned American and Israeli flags.
 Over the last year, Mr. Ahmadinejad has caused international outrage by questioning the Holocaust and saying, ''Israel should be wiped off the map,'' a slogan used often by the father of the 1979 revolution, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
 On Friday, Mr. Ahmadinejad talked again about the Holocaust, saying: ''Even if we assume that six million Jews were killed in World War II, how come you don't have sympathy for the other 54 million who were killed, too? It is not even clear who counted those you have sympathy for.'' He said Israel has effectively held European countries hostage for what happened during World War II.
 Television reports also showed demonstrators chanting in support of Iran's nuclear program.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad repeated Friday that Iran would not give in to international demands to suspend its uranium-enrichment program and dismissed United Nations efforts to impose sanctions on Iran as illegitimate. ''They want to use the Security Council as an instrument to put pressure on our people,'' he said. ''But thank God they will never succeed.''
 Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the former president, warned Western countries at the same rally that sanctions on Iran would have serious consequences for Europeans. ''I advise them not to implement the harmful decision they have made over Iran's nuclear program,'' he said. Mr. Rafsanjani has backed Iran's nuclear program in public speeches but is believed to favor policies that would prevent confrontation between Iran and the West.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad said last week that Iran would welcome sanctions because local industries would have a chance to grow.
 Britain, France, Germany and the United States have been working on a Security Council resolution on Iran that they hope to introduce early next week. It may include a ban on nuclear or missile cooperation with Iran. European Union foreign ministers, meeting Tuesday in Luxembourg, agreed to call for limited sanctions. 
 In its first official response to the threat of United Nations action, Iran's Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Iran would not ''remain idle if sanctions are imposed.''
 ''It is big miscalculation to think the policy of carrot and stick can be pursued at the same time,'' the statement said, according to ISNA, a government-affiliated news agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); HOLOCAUST (86%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); TERRORISM (70%); RAMADAN (66%) Terrorism; Palestinians; Uranium; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); HEZBOLLAH (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%) United Nations

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%); HASSAN NASRALLAH (58%) Nazila Fathi; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (95%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); LEBANON (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (79%) Israel; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



493 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN: Struggle for the House; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: In a G.O.P. Stronghold, 3 Districts in Indiana Are Now Battlegrounds

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

DATELINE: MISHAWAKA, Ind. 

 BODY:
Indiana, so heavily Republican that it has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since 1964, has become an unexpected battleground in this year's Congressional elections.
 Three of the state's seven Republican members of Congress are locked in tough races, with the campaigns drawing big money and big names from both parties, including President Bush, Laura Bush, Barbara Bush, former President Bill Clinton and Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois.
What is happening here in the Crossroads of America?
 Just standard election year politics, say Republicans, in a state with a history of close races and of electing some Democrats (two of its nine members of Congress are Democrats, as is one senator). It is more than that, say Democrats, portraying Indianans as unusually disaffected and predicting that their party will make significant gains. 
 Ed Feigenbaum, editor of The Indiana Legislative Insight, a nonpartisan newsletter, said the situation reflected the nation's souring mood.
 ''People are unhappy everywhere,'' Mr. Feigenbaum said. ''And incumbents suffer when they think the country is heading in the wrong direction.''
 It is not that candidates in the three competitive districts differ substantially on issues that matter most to voters. But their styles are different, as is the political company they keep, as each often reminds voters.
 Republicans warn that Democratic victories will mean liberal leadership in Congress, while Democrats say their opponents support failed policies. The overwhelmingly negative advertisements on both sides have focused on personalities, moral values, party allegiances and help for veterans. 
 Voters seem focused on larger matters. From the hills of New Albany near the Kentucky border to the gray streets of Mishawaka near the Michigan border, scores of voters in the three districts said in interviews that they were uneasy about Iraq, illegal immigration, the economy and the cost of health care. 
 Some said they feared that gasoline prices would rise again, while others complained about lobbyists. None cited the resignation of Representative Mark Foley over his e-mail exchanges with Congressional pages, though many Republicans were concerned that unhappiness about moral lapses in Washington might depress turnout among Christian conservatives.
 Some spoke about local issues, but national matters, especially Iraq, prevailed. 
 ''Iraq is seen as a failed Republican policy that isn't working and costing money,'' said Brian Vargus, a professor of political science at Indiana University in Indianapolis.
 ''That really resonates with Hoosiers,'' Mr. Vargus said. ''They are very patriotic, feel that the American military is very efficient so someone is doing something wrong.''

Second District
 Representative Chris Chocola, a Republican, and the Democrat, Joe Donnelly, a lawyer and businessman, are in a race that was never supposed to be so close, though the district has elected Democrats in the past. 
 The economy and immigration loom as large as Iraq in this blue-collar district. Many auto-parts plants have closed or been cut back. Workers are nervous, and some say that Mr. Chocola does not understand their predicament because he is independently wealthy. 
 Plant workers blame Washington for higher gasoline prices, which hurt demand for automobiles; for spending money on Iraq that could be spent at home; and for failing, as they see it, to stop illegal immigrants from taking jobs in nonunion shops. 
 Mr. Chocola soundly defeated Mr. Donnelly in 2004, but polls now show Mr. Donnelly ahead. Mr. Donnelly appears to be benefiting from spending by independent groups and national Democrats. (Republicans recently stopped broadcasting advertising for Mr. Chocola, cautioning they have not given up on him but declining to say if the advertisements will resume.)
 ''Billions of dollars go to China, they're taking away our jobs, and they call it free trade,'' said Richard Rittenhouse Jr., leaning against a friend's pickup after their shift at the AM General Hummer H2 plant in Elkhart. 
 Illegal immigrants, whose numbers are relatively small in Indiana, but are concentrated in some areas, are ''working hard and cheap'' in nonunion plants Mr. Rittenhouse said, while union jobs are trimmed. 
 He and his friend, Steve Patton, said they were also frustrated by high property taxes, the leasing of a state toll road to a foreign entity and changes in the local daylight saving time. 
 Mr. Chocola said he was not worried. 
 ''This district is always competitive,'' he said, after addressing students at Penn High School in Mishawaka. ''Nothing unusual.''
 Mr. Donnelly, who criticizes Mr. Chocola for supporting the president on Iraq and foreign trade, sounds equally confident. 
 ''We're going to change the country,'' he said in a South Bend pub.

Eighth District
 The ''Bloody Eighth'' as it is known because of its close elections. Representative John Hostettler, a six-term Republican, is invariably described an unorthodox public official who does as he likes, from voting against the Iraq war to taking a loaded gun into the Louisville airport two years ago. The congressman said he had forgotten that the gun was in his briefcase.
 Political analysts say Mr. Hostettler has been more unorthodox than usual, campaigning and fund-raising less aggressively than might be expected, given his opposition -- the telegenic sheriff of Vanderburgh County, Brad Ellsworth.
 Mr. Hostettler, who insists he is campaigning hard, historically wins, usually by small margins, helped by a strong get-out-the-vote operation led by Christian conservatives. 
 But Democrats see Mr. Ellsworth as the strongest opponent Mr. Hostettler has faced, a conservative Democrat whose record can appeal to working-class voters.
 The candidates in fact agree on most issues. Both oppose abortion rights and favor tough immigration laws. Their major difference is Mr. Hostettler's vote against raising the minimum wage and Mr. Ellsworth's support for it. 
 Nonetheless, Mr. Hostettler paints Mr. Ellsworth as ''far to the left,'' and raises the specter of Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader from California, becoming speaker if Democrats win a majority.
 That registers with some voters. ''They are both good men, but the Democrats will put pressure on him to put Pelosi in, an extreme Democrat,'' Mike Rhoads, an insurance agent, after said services at Bethel Temple, a nondenominational Christian church in Evansville.
 Mr. Hostettler's longevity in Washington registers with other voters, among them Betty Paddock, a retired dietitian who voted for Mr. Hostettler in 2004.
 ''He's been there a long time, time for a change,'' Ms. Paddock said at the West Side Nut Club Fall Festival in Evansville. Hr sister Jean Tabor, a cashier at a Target store, added, ''Too many bad things are happening.''

Ninth District
 The race is a rubber match, an unusually personal fight between two candidates with distinctly different styles -- Representative Mike Sodrel, a Republican who two years ago beat the same Democratic opponent, Baron Hill, a former two-term congressman. 
 Mr. Sodrel worked the crowd in shirt sleeves during the Harvest Homecoming Festival in New Albany, across the Ohio River from Louisville, Ky. The day before, Mr. Hill appeared in suit and tie, serious and unsmiling as he and Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, discussed domestic security in a town firehouse.
 Mr. Sodrel, owner of a trucking company, accuses Mr. Hill of having ''gone Washington.'' He says that Mr. Hill ''doesn't share our values'' and that Mr. Hill voted against protecting the flag from desecration and opposed a bill banning same-sex marriage. 
 Mr. Hill says that he honors the flag and opposes same-sex marriage but that the issues should be left for states. He accuses Mr. Sodrel of being too close to the oil industry, and calls on him to return campaign contributions from Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and other Republicans for what he calls a failure of leadership in the Foley case.
 Both candidates strike voters as too negative and out of touch with what really concerns people, many football fans said at a recent Friday game at New Albany High School. 
 ''Nobody wants to talk about anything I think is important, like getting out of this stupid war,'' said Edward Summers, a veteran of World War II. 
 Neal Lang, a fifth-grade teacher from nearby Floyds Nob, said he was worried that the country ''seems angry and strongly divided.'' 
 Mr. Lang said he did not know who he would vote for, but predicted, ''I think it will be close again.''

 DISTRICT: 84%
U.S.: 67%

Black
DISTRICT: 8
U.S.: 13

Hispanic
DISTRICT: 5
U.S.: 14

Median Household Income

DISTRICT: $30,381
U.S.: $44,473

EIGHTH DISTRICT

REP.: John Hostettler*
DEM.: Brad Ellsworth

SPENDING (THOUSANDS)

CANDIDATE
REP.: $94
DEM.: 360

PARTY
REP.: 1501
DEM.: 1322

DEMOGRAPHICS

DISTRICT:
 U.S.:

White
DISTRICT: 94%
U.S.: 67%

Black
DISTRICT: 4
U.S.: 13

Hispanics
DISTRICT: 1
U.S.: 14

Median Household Income

DISTRICT: $36,732
U.S.: $44,473

NINTH DISTRICT

REP. : Mike Sodrel*
DEM.: Baron Hill

SPENDING (THOUSANDS)

CANDIDATE
REP.: $643
DEM.: 214

PARTY
REP.: 983
DEM.: 767

DEMOGRAPHICS

White
DISTRICT: 94%
U.S.: 67%

Black
DISTRICT: 2
U.S.: 13

Hispanics
DISTRICT: 2
U.S.: 14

Median Household Income

DISTRICT: $39,011
U.S.: $44,473

Map of Indiana highlighting Second, Eighth, and Ninth Districts.

*Incumbent

(Sources by Federal Election Commission filings; U.S. Census Bureau)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brad Ellsworth, left, and Baron Hill, right, with Senator Barack Obama
and Representative Chris Chocola with the first lady, Laura Bush. (Photo by Joe Raymond/Associated Press)
(Photo by Michael Conroy/Associated Press)
 Betty Paddock, left, backed a Republican, John Hostettler, in 2004, but she and her sister, Jean Tabor, now favor a Democrat, Brad Ellsworth. (Photo by Daniel R. Patmore for The New York Times)Chart: ''Heartland Nailbiters''Three tight House races in Indiana at a glance.SECOND DISTRICTCANDIDATESREP.: Chris Chocola*DEM.: Joe DonnellySPENDING (THOUSANDS)CANDIDATEREP.: DEM$568.: 152PARTYREP.: 355DEM.: 692DEMOGRAPHICSWhite

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); IMMIGRATION (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (62%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (50%) Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BRAD ELLSWORTH (90%); JOE DONNELLY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); BARON P HILL (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) Joyce Purnick; Chris (Rep) Chocola; Joe Donnelly; John (Rep) Hostettler; Brad Ellsworth; Mike (Rep) Sodrel; Baron Hill

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Indiana; Indiana

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006



494 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: O.K., Which Way To Financial Success?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''You Can Complain, or You Can Make Money'' (Everybody's Business, Oct. 15), in which Ben Stein suggested paths to financial success: 
 I was a lawyer-lobbyist in Washington until the end of 2005. I was able to accumulate a comfortable nest egg and retire after 20 years. I spent this year traveling in Mexico and Central America to learn Spanish. I plan to return to college next year and pursue a certificate to teach English as a Second Language.
The column implied that in the effort to build wealth, college students should avoid majoring in the arts or seeking a teaching certificate. But what about a strategy that allows you to have your cake and eat it, too? Get the wealth-building job first, amass the wealth to retire early and then pursue a less lucrative job, but one that is possibly more fulfilling.

Cynthia L. Moore
Sarasota, Fla., Oct. 17

To the Editor:
 As one who has attained both a medical degree and an M.B.A., and practiced first a general surgeon and then as a money manager, I was gratified to see that both of my careers were given Ben Stein's stamp of approval. I take issue, however, with the suggestion that medicine is a desirable field because the government helps you to fix your wages. Actually, for over 20 years, the government has fixed wages at below market prices through Medicare, and in doing so has forced many practitioners out of private practice because they can't meet their overhead.
 Unless a doctor practices a specialty outside the control of insurance companies, he or she is forced to accept reimbursement rates that make it difficult if not impossible to turn a profit. What you still get, however, is the extreme gratification of saving lives and having a very positive impact on many people. This, as Mr. Stein might say, is priceless.

Martin S. Tindel, M.D., M.B.A.
Manhattan, Oct. 16

To the Editor:
 Ben Stein describes the vast disparity of income and wealth in America. Then he advises us that, instead of complaining, we should aim to reach the top 1 percent of wealth holders by majoring in certain subjects in college and then pursuing certain careers.
 But even if everyone followed this advice, only 1 percent of us would ever make it into the top 1 percent. The advice won't reduce poverty or economic inequality.

Robert Baillie
Loveland, Colo., Oct. 15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); EARLY RETIREMENT (76%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); MEDICARE (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); INSURANCE (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



495 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Workers' Share of the Pie

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''After Years of Growth, What About Workers' Share?'' (Economic View, Oct. 15), which described the declining share of worker wages and benefits relative to gross domestic product in the United States: 
 The column noted that this was happening in other countries, too, but did not mention that those countries -- Canada and Germany, for example -- have not had a similar erosion of the social safety net which has left American workers even more vulnerable.
 German workers may have seen their wages and benefits decline 3.1 percent as a share of their nation's G.D.P. since 2000, but at least German workers don't have to fear losing their health care as well.

Steven Conn
Yellow Springs, Ohio, Oct. 15

The writer is a professor in the history department at Ohio State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



496 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; ARMCHAIR TRAVELER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 454 words

BYLINE: By RICHARD B. WOODWARD

 BODY:

Wallpaper City Guides
Phaidon Press, each about 110 pages, $8.95 paperback
 Even those who don't read Wallpaper magazine or belong to its target audience -- young, British, affluent, design-obsessed -- can find room in a carry-on bag for its new travel guides. Vest-pocket slim and pleasing to the hand, with tabbed chapters and a cover that unfolds into a panorama of the city in question, they are also a bargain, cheaper than a drink at most of the trendy boites endorsed in their pages. 
Best of all, for the rushed or the jaded the guides have reduced the list of desirable sights to a doable handful in each of 20 cities. Many of those included thus far are European, although New York and Los Angeles make the list, along with Mexico City, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sydney, Singapore, Shanghai, Bangkok and Istanbul. The 40 cities scheduled for guides next year include Miami, San Francisco, Chicago, Las Vegas, Toronto and Montreal.
 The point of view is decidedly Modernist, and a dizzying level of urbanity is taken for granted. The guide to Rome cites the Sistine Chapel just in passing and instead directs visitors to outstanding Italian Rationalist or Fascist buildings, including the Palazzo delle Terme (containing Mussolini's private gym), Garbatella (a blue-collar housing project from the 1930's) and a post office by Adalberto Libera and Mario de Renzi. 
 Like the magazine, the guides are better on contemporary architecture and design than on other arts. The London guide steers clear of the Banqueting House and the National Gallery, preferring to highlight exemplars of 20th-century Brutalism: the Economist Building by Alison and Peter Smithson, and Denys Lasdun's Royal College of Physicians. The suggestions aren't all so high-minded. The 24 Hours section-- a feature of each guide -- concludes that Primrose Hill is the ideal spot for watching a London sunset.
 The select group of hotels, bars, gyms and shops vouched for tend to be sleek and pricey. There are also a surprising number of muddy color reproductions. Luckily, these faults are outweighed by the idiosyncratic tips. What other guide to Copenhagen would skip over Hans Christian Andersen in favor of a stop at Illums Bolighus, the spectacular housewares store, or propose a side trip to Charlottenlund to see a gas station designed in 1937 by Arne Jacobson? 
 No entry exceeds more than about 200 words, so supplemental reading is a must. The editors have kept matters sophisticated but simple. 
 At the back of each book are several pages of note paper (plain, lined, gridded) for jotting and sketching, recognition that traveling should be mapped out and yet can be as personal and improvisational as a diary. RICHARD B. WOODWARD


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (61%) Travel and Vacations; Reviews; Books and Literature; Guidebooks

PERSON: Richard B Woodward

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (70%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (56%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (70%); CHINA (56%); DENMARK (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



497 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Behind Those Stockpiles of Corporate Cash 

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
PUBLICLY traded American companies hold so much cash that, as a group, they could pay off all their debt and still have money left over. According to a new study, this cash-heavy status reflects a major shift over the last two decades, and it isn't necessarily a good sign for stocks.
 The study has been circulating since September as a National Bureau of Economic Research working paper. It is titled ''Why Do U.S. Firms Hold So Much More Cash Than They Used To?,'' and its authors are Thomas W. Bates and Kathleen M. Kahle, finance professors at the University of Arizona, and Rene M. Stulz, a professor of banking and monetary economics at Ohio State. A version is at nber.org/papers/w12534. 
The professors found that the average cash-to-assets ratio for corporations more than doubled from 1980 to 2004, to 24 percent from 10.5 percent. Yet until their study, few people tried to analyze the investment implications of this trend because its causes appeared isolated -- and therefore seemed to carry little long-term significance. 
 For example, it may have appeared that the increase resulted from nothing more than cash hoarding at just a few large companies like Microsoft and Exxon Mobil, each of which has more than $30 billion in cash and short-term securities. But the professors found that the growth of cash was not confined to some big corporations. 
 In fact, the steepest climbs in cash from 1980 to 2004 occurred among companies with the smallest market capitalizations. And the gains were registered not only in the last few years of the study; they were fairly evenly spaced throughout the period.
 Could it be that corporate cash accumulated because of the surging number of companies that had initial public offerings in the 1980's and 1990's? After all, newly listed companies typically hold large amounts of cash just after their I.P.O.'s, and they often raise even more money in secondary offerings. 
 But the professors found that this could not explain the long-term trend, because the cash increases were most pronounced at companies that had not recently gone public.
 The professors also rejected another possible explanation: that the cash hoards resulted from a growing share of corporate income from foreign operations. During much of the period studied, multinational corporations based in the United States would have incurred hefty tax bills had they repatriated the cash held by their foreign divisions. But the researchers found that cash holdings grew just as quickly among companies with no foreign income.
 So what is the main cause of the climb in corporate cash? Upon analyzing a dozen factors that economic theory suggests could play a role, the professors found that the biggest was an increase in risk -- as evidenced by factors like unpredictable cash flow. Corporations have become less able to count on steady cash flow from year to year, according to the professors, and despite the growth of a complex derivatives market, companies can't adequately hedge this risk without holding more cash.
 This helps to explain why so few companies are paying out their bigger cash hoards as dividends. Because companies are loath to cut or eliminate a dividend once they start paying it, they won't establish or increase a dividend unless they are highly confident that they can stick with it through thick and thin. But that confidence is precisely what is missing at a growing number of companies.
 The professors' analysis casts an entirely new light on valuation measures that rely on cash levels -- gauges like cash-to-assets or cash-to-sales ratios. An investor who relies on such measures often assumes that companies with more cash are less risky, because they have more of a buffer against rainy days. 
 But this assumption may well be wrong, Professor Stulz asserted in an interview, if the companies holding more cash have more rainy days than companies holding less cash. 
 To properly compare two companies on the basis of cash holdings, Professor Stulz says, you should first compare their risk, as measured by factors like the volatility of their cash flows. Only if a company is holding more cash than is justified by its risk can we conclude that it is genuinely more conservative.
 Professor Stulz says he is not aware of any investment firms that now conduct the econometric calculations needed to make these assessments. And he concedes that those calculations would be complex. But without them, contrasts of companies' cash levels amount to little more than comparisons of apples and oranges.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Under the Mattress''The cash position of publicly traded U.S. companies, as gauged by the cash-to-assets ratio, has grown steadily.Graph tracks percent of total assets of U.S. companies* held in cash and marketable securities from 1980-2004.*Does not include financial firms or utilities.(Sources by Thomas W. Bates, Kathleen M. Kahle, Rene M. Stulz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BONDS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); TRENDS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Derivatives (Financial Transactions); Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: Mark Hulbert; Thomas W Bates; Kathleen M Kahle; Rene M (Prof) Stulz

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



498 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: The Economic Miracle as an Economic Mirage

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN

 BODY:
WHATEVER happened to the good old days of cradle-to-grave security -- of a steady job, a lifetime pension and paid-for health care along the way? This is the question at the heart of ''The Great Risk Shift'' (Oxford University Press, $26), by the political scientist Jacob S. Hacker, and his answer is impassioned and angry.
 As Mr. Hacker sees it, corporations with the aid of a now-neglectful federal government have offloaded their social responsibilities onto the average Joe and Jane. This has left the typical American ever more ''insecure,'' he writes, and put the lie to the rosy accounts of a prosperous and thriving America that one would get from the standard economic indicators. 
To buttress his point, the author trots out a familiar-seeming list -- of people who burned through their savings to finance a medical expense, or who retired only to see their corporate pension plan go bust, or who lost a job that was once secure. But as predictable and, at times, whiny as his examples seem, Mr. Hacker does make a contribution to our understanding.
 By framing what usually are treated as distinct issues -- pensions, health care, jobs and so forth -- within a unified thesis, Mr. Hacker tells a coherent story about economic insecurity. And, by and large, the thesis is compelling. Do folks -- even if they are richer -- feel less secure these days? Probably yes.
 Beginning with the New Deal and continuing for decades after it, employers backed by the government assumed the risk for just about anything that could go wrong: job loss, technological obsolescence, illness, disability or just plain old age. But over the last quarter-century -- very good years as measured by the Dow Jones industrial average -- the clock has been rolled back. Government programs are under attack, and corporate guarantees are being trimmed or brutally eliminated.
 The upshot is that Americans, more than the citizens of any other developed nation, must fend for themselves. Sounding at times like a liberal Pat Buchanan, Mr. Hacker urges us to ''get even'' -- to ''fight back.''
 Mr. Hacker pointedly italicized the latter phrase -- his subtitle is ''The Assault on American Jobs, Families, Health Care, and Retirement and How You Can Fight Back'' -- from which I infer that he believes there is something for us to fight against. It suggests that some deliberate and perhaps evil agent is the active force that is causing all these economic downers.
 Mr. Hacker locates this agent in a rhetorical flourish. ''What has changed?'' he wonders: ''In a word, ideology.'' By this, of course, he means the right-wingers who have lately been running the show in Washington.
 He is right that Republicans generally frown on entitlement payments, and that nothing so thrills some conservatives as plotting the demise of Social Security. But there is a problem with the way he sets up cause and effect, namely, with blaming ideologues for our soaring medical bills. The fact is, most of the ills that Mr. Hacker addresses are a result of changes in the private sector.
 For instance, private employers are putting the knife to health care coverage and pensions. The government safety net has also been trimmed, but at least for people with jobs, the principal hallmarks -- Social Security, Medicare, disability and unemployment insurance -- are alive and, I would guess, are going to be around for a long time.
 When Mr. Hacker highlights the phenomenon of workers who suffer ''economic volatility'' -- meaning a sharp drop in income -- it becomes clear that more than ideology is at play. Presumably, these workers were laid off, reassigned, downsized and so forth. And few would dispute that the economy has become less stable, and therefore less secure.
 Had Mr. Hacker paid more attention to why the economy has become so changeable, his story might have been less a morality play and more a straightforward account of companies adapting to evolving times. One dynamic he all but ignores is globalization: companies competing in a world market simply cannot afford all the goodies that they once could.
 The author often sounds nostalgic for that bygone era. ''The traditional, lifetime employment relationship was like a marriage,'' he observes. Now, ''the risk is on workers.'' He juxtaposes the supposedly heartless Wal-Mart with General Motors, which ''paid its workers solidly middle-class incomes and provided generous benefits.'' The problem, ahem, is that 80 percent or so of those swell G.M. jobs no longer exist. Could Mr. Hacker fail to have noticed?
 Perhaps not. At the very end, when he turns to suggested remedies, he makes a daunting acknowledgment. Discussing a need for insurance that is ''portable'' -- meaning that workers can take from job to job -- he adds: ''If this sometimes means corporations are off the hook, so be it.'' That doesn't sound like a marriage to me; it sounds like a one-night stand.
 Though Mr. Hacker's account is lively, he has a tendency toward pop-political-science cliches -- what exactly is a ''classic double bind''? -- and toward overusing purple modifiers like ''alarming,'' ''harrowing'' and ''shocking,'' especially for findings that actually are unsurprising, such as that most people would encounter serious hardship within four months of losing their jobs.
 NONETHELESS, he has some intriguing suggestions. On health care, for instance, he would extend Medicare to everyone under 65 and require that employers either finance a share of their workers' participation or provide them with a private health plan that was at least as generous as the government's.
 No one will agree with all of Mr. Hacker's proposals, but his account is provocative and worth reading. And it is chock-full of details that bolster his case that -- in regard to risks that in other countries are handled by government and that in this country were once met by employers -- Americans now must go it alone.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); WRITERS (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); LITERATURE (68%) United States Economy; Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: Jacob S (Prof) Hacker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



499 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: What Becomes John Legend Most? 

BYLINE: By MELBA NEWSOME

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

 BODY:
JOHN LEGEND was here on the Southeast swing of a whirlwind radio promotion tour for his new album, ''Once Again'' (Columbia), and the radio station WQNC-FM was holding a meet-and-greet luncheon for a few dozen giddy fans and the rhythm-and-blues star. It was the third station event of this early October day, yet Mr. Legend remained engaging and affable, posing for pictures and signing countless autographs. His one promotional weakness, if you could call it that, is not talking all-Legend-all-the-time. On the air, he waxed poetic about Bob Marley and serious about the economist Jeffrey D. Sachs, whose book ''The End of Poverty'' he was reading. 
 ''You think that's attainable?'' asked the D.J., somewhat taken aback by the turn of the interview.
''Absolutely!'' he said. ''The end of poverty is an attainable goal. It just takes the will of the people.'' 
 Clearly, Mr. Legend has more on his mind than promoting his latest CD. 
 A self-described nerd who wants to change the world as much as he wants to change contemporary music, he is also a paradox. Like his music, Mr. Legend, a 27-year-old singer-songwriter, is at once old-fashioned and trendy, courtly and cool, attention-grabbing and understated. Throw in his swagger and distressed jeans that actually fit and Mr. Legend comes across more like a preppie Joe College than a typical R&B star. But after selling three million copies of his debut album, ''Get Lifted,'' and winning three Grammys, he can afford to come across any way he pleases.
 Rather than adhere to the mainstream R&B formula of ''Get Lifted,'' Mr. Legend has tried something different with ''Once Again,'' which is scheduled for release this week. Even though both albums share producers like Kanye West, will.i.am of the Black Eyed Peas and Dave Tozer, ''Once Again'' reflects a broader spectrum of musical inspirations and doesn't fit neatly into the urban R&B category. 
 ''This CD is a mix of all different kinds of music -- alternative, classic pop and rock -- but at its core it's soul music,'' Mr. Legend said in a break between radio interviews. ''I was singing a little differently on 'Get Lifted,' a little less refined, a little rougher. This time around, after killing my voice on tour so many times, I learned to do it right and I think it shows. This album has a lot of romance. I didn't set out to do that but I guess that was the mood I was in at the time.''
 Mr. Legend exudes confidence without appearing cocky. When asked repeatedly about the pressure of making a second album that lives up to the critical and commercial success of the first, he said he never felt any. Referring to the sophomore jinx, he cited other artists who have walked away with the Grammy for best new artist: Alicia Keys, Norah Jones, the Beatles. ''If they're jinxed, then bring me some of that,'' he said with a laugh.
 ''This album is an expansion more than anything else,'' he said. ''I'm trying to be me and embrace all the parts of me that have grown up, listened to more music and soaked up more influences. 'Get Lifted' was me then. This is me now.''
 An R&B singer who cut his teeth on gospel music is almost a cliche, but that's Mr. Legend's story. Born and raised as John Stephens in the southwest Ohio town of Springfield, he began piano lessons when he was 4 and honed his craft playing and singing in church. He always believed he would have a career in music, but he was also practical enough to pursue a good education. According to Mr. Legend, he fielded scholarship offers from Harvard, Georgetown and Morehouse before settling on the University of Pennsylvania. 
 During his college years, Mr. Legend cut a demo and became a regular on the Philadelphia club scene. In 1998, a college friend introduced him to Lauryn Hill, who hired him to play piano on ''Everything Is Everything,'' for her album ''The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill.'' In 2001 another college friend introduced him to an up-and-coming hip-hop producer, Kanye West, who soon began hiring him to sing hooks on several of his productions. 
 Despite landing a job as a strategic management consultant after graduation in 1999, Mr. Legend spent his free time writing and performing music and knocking on doors in search of a record deal. When Mr. West started his KonMan Entertainment label in late 2003, Mr. Legend was the first artist he signed.
 By this time, John Stephens had become John Legend, a name given to him by a friend because of his old-school sound. He was willing to risk being labeled arrogant if the name garnered attention. ''It was bold and I knew people would be like 'He'd better be good if he's going to call himself John Legend,' '' he recalled. ''So I said, 'Let me go out and make the best music I can and maybe, after my career is over, I've lived up to the name.' ''
 In December 2004, ''Get Lifted'' made its debut at No. 7 on the Billboard Top 200 album chart, quite a performance for a new artist with minimal buzz. He went on to tie Mr. West and Mariah Carey with eight Grammy nominations, gouing home this year with three awards -- best male R&B performance and best R&B album, in addition to best new artist.
 In the months since, Mr. Legend has been recording, touring and promoting more or less nonstop, leaving him with about three days a month to spend at his home in Manhattan. Since he had previously self-produced two indie CD's and worked as a session musician and singer, none of this came as a surprise. 
 ''Some people can't handle the pressure, but I think I was mentally prepared for it and understood what I was getting into,'' he said. ''It's a grueling schedule and every little thing you do -- every radio-station visit, every video, every photo shoot -- is important and you have take care to do it right.''
 Whether it's because he's been a media darling or because his words are not scripted by publicists, Mr. Legend has developed a habit of bluntness. At one radio station here, he spoke about his girlfriend while sitting next to the winner of the ''biggest John Legend fan'' contest, a pretty young woman who stared at him with wide eyes. When one caller said he'd written a song for him, Mr. Legend responded by noting that he writes his own -- thanks, but no thanks. After meeting later with some fans, he said some had treated him like a commodity and acted as if he owed them something. What he owed them, he said, was great music, pure and simple. 
 The 13 songs on ''Once Again'' -- whittled down from an original 30 -- feature Mr. Legend's lush, seductive vocals and music that is, at times, restrained and spare. The first single, ''Save Room,'' is an upbeat love song reminiscent of a 1960's AM radio hit -- not surprising, since it was inspired by ''Stormy,'' a 1968 song by the Classics IV. ''Coming Home'' is a haunting reflection on the personal toll of the Iraq war : 
 It seems the wars will never end
 But we'll make it home again 
 Back where we belong again 
 We're holding on to when
 We used to dare to dream 
 We pray we live to see
 Another day in history.
 As Mr. Legend left the last pop-music station, a D.J. dashed out to tell him how much he loved his music. '' 'Save Room' is my favorite song but I can't play it,'' he said with a laugh. It's a line Mr. Legend said he had heard more times than he could count. An album that is romantic, political and spiritual poses a programming challenge to an industry that already doesn't know quite what to make of Mr. Legend or his music. ''Ordinary People'' and ''Used to Love U,'' the singles from ''Get Lifted,'' never received much airplay either.
 ''My music doesn't sound like anything else on the radio, and that's O.K. because I hate most of the songs I hear on the radio,'' he said. ''So programmers don't know what to play it next to. My bet is that my fans and a lot of the public want something different.''
 Mr. Legend said he was convinced that ''Once Again,'' like his first album, would find a broad audience thanks to live performances, video play on VH1 and BET, and word of mouth. ''I want to be very successful but I want to succeed in a way that feels right and natural to me,'' he said. ''I believe that, at the end of the day, great music is going to get heard.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Legend, shown performing in Manhattan this month, chose his stage name quite deliberately: ''I said, 'Let me go out and make the best music I can and maybe, after my career is over, I've lived up to the name.' '' (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); RECORD RELEASES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); SONG WRITING (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%) Music; Recordings and Downloads (Audio)

PERSON: KANYE WEST (58%) Melba Newsome; John Legend

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



500 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2684 words

HEADLINE: Under Morocco's Spell

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO. 
RACHEL DONADIO is a writer and editor at The Times Book Review.

 BODY:
THE Kasbah du Toubkal, a mountain retreat in the High Atlas outside Marrakesh, is not for the faint of heart or weak of knee. To reach it, you drive up a winding mountain road to the village of Imlil, walk for 20 long minutes up a gravel path, enter a wooden gate and keep walking. But once inside the central garden, you begin to get the point. 
 Filled with wildflowers, it opens onto a splendid vista -- reddish-brown mountains dotted with green walnut groves and boxy mud-brick villages, farmers tending sheep on distant hills, and Mount Toubkal rising snow-capped and gray-blue in the distance.
 A spirit of late-onset adventurism had compelled me to make my first trip to Morocco, a country I knew only through the paintings of Matisse; a poster of his ''Porte de la Casbah,'' a keyhole arch rendered in blue, hung on my wall for a decade. I've always loved chaotic cities, hidden courtyards and any climate where bougainvillea thrives, but I hadn't thought about hiking until I learned about the Kasbah, which offers day trips and longer hikes from the lodge, complete with a guide, cook and muleteer. 
 When I arrived on a cloudless day in June, my sense of accomplishment was diminished only by a slight pang of guilt, commingled with relief: my luggage had been carried uphill from Imlil -- by mule. 
 The Kasbah calls itself a ''Berber hospitality center,'' not a hotel. In the brochure, I found this rhetoric self-important; once there, I realized it was entirely accurate. Drinking syrupy sweet mint tea on the terrace, I was a guest; the Berber guides and waiters smoking cigarettes and talking on their cellphones at the low table in the corner were our hosts. 
 Once the fortified summer palace of a caid, or local governor, the property fell into disrepair after Morocco gained independence in 1956. A British tourism outfit, Discover Ltd., renovated it and opened it to guests in 1995, working in close cooperation with local residents, who now run and staff it. 
 The Kasbah charges a 5 percent levy on rooms and services, which finances a village association that in recent years has bought an ambulance; built a hammam, or communal steam bath, in Imlil; and set up water systems in nearby villages. Martin Scorsese paid to film parts of ''Kundun,'' his 1997 movie about the Dalai Lama, at the Kasbah, which used the money to set up a local waste-management system. Discover has since worked with the association to protect the area from rapid development while improving the local economy. 
 I'm no sucker for eco-tourism boilerplate, but I was impressed by the Kasbah's approach. 
 I HAD easily convinced my friend Katja, a historian who lives in Los Angeles, to go along on the trip. The plan was to travel from Marrakesh and spend two nights at the Kasbah's main lodge, then two at its new remote lodge in a nearby Berber village -- which we would reach by trekking 11 miles over a mountain pass. Neither of us had hiked before, and we hoped our enthusiasm would trump our inexperience. 
 But first things first.
 ''Here is the terrace -- for relax,'' Mustafah, the lodge's doe-eyed steward, said with a shy, friendly smile after we had climbed a steep staircase. In a gesture at once welcoming and proprietary, he stretched his arm across the horizon, toward the cluster of houses in Imlil below, and Mount Toubkal, at 13,665 feet the highest of the Atlas Mountains. 
 For two days, I sat in a canvas chair on that terrace, reading. The sounds of New York slowly dissipated until all I could hear was the ''Allahu Akbar'' of muezzins echoing across valleys, the occasional crowing of a rooster, the barely perceptible rustle of a faraway waterfall. On the one gray day, clouds enveloped everything beyond a little brown sparrow perched on the terrace railing. 
 Breakfast and lunch -- simple fare like bread with thick local honey and fresh salads --were served on the terrace. Dinner was served in an atmospheric common room with low round tables and Berber carpets. The evening meals -- a succulent lamb tagine one night, chicken with green olives the next -- began with a ritual hand washing with water poured into a basin from a metal ewer.
 The Berbers, or Imazighen as they're called in their own tongue -- Berber implies barbarian in Arabic -- resisted the Arab conquest of the seventh century and still practice a less rigid form of Islam today. The women we saw all wore bright kerchiefs, not burkas. 
 The economy is based on subsistence farming, and many Berber men have left Morocco in search of work. Illiteracy is high. I was taken aback when our guide, Lahcen, a moody man in his late 30's with a sensibility more complicated than his culture seemed able to accommodate, deferred to a friend when I asked him to jot his name in my notebook. But he spoke excellent French and decent English, and knew the Toubkal valleys by heart. 
 Before setting out for the remote lodge, we were handed ski poles to help us keep our footing. Although the trail was never particularly steep, the soft shale sloped gradually on the downhill side, perfect for twisting your ankles. Hiking boots were essential, as were hats and sunscreen. In the hot, dry mountain air, we were comfortable in long cotton pants and long-sleeved T-shirts, but wore sweatshirts on the chillier peaks.
 Lahcen carried our large bottle of water in his backpack, along with a cellphone that worked only on the near side of the mountain. He gave us Arabic names, dubbing me Fatima, and Katja Leila. ''Ca va, Fatima?'' he would say, sometimes holding my hand, as I anxiously made my way along the trail. 
 ''Oui, ca va, merci,'' I'd say, trying not to think of the athletic British couple we'd met at the Kasbah who said they'd had to turn back when one got vertigo. 
 Soon we were joined by Ali, a small, sprightly man with a tonsure haircut, who rode with our luggage on his mule. In my honor, Lahcen and Ali sang a song about a Fatima who wanted to pack her suitcase and go to Agadir, a town on the coast. 
 The path wound its way through hillsides dotted with clumps of purple and yellow flowers, juniper bushes and a geological formation that looked like melted ice cream. At the top of the first mountain we stopped for lunch -- salad with fresh vegetables, bread and cheese, hot mint tea -- served to us under a wide tree, at a low table set with a golden cloth. We felt awkwardly pampered.
 The local women didn't have it nearly as good. Later, in the next valley, we waved to an old woman in brightly colored skirts who trudged along a near-dry stream bed carrying an enormous bale of green hay on her back. She was nimble, even in plastic sandals. In a village nestled between terraced walnut groves, little children trailed us, asking, ''Bon bon? Stylo?'' but we hadn't thought to take candy or pens. 
 Toward the end of the six-hour trek, I was nearly hallucinating from the exertion. Finally, somehow, we reached our destination: the village of Id Issa in the Azzadene Valley, where electricity arrived only last year. From the dusty road I looked up at the remote lodge, a lovely pink stone house atop the town's highest hill. It was worth the final push. Our bathroom had a big marble tub and plenty of hot running water, heated by solar panels on the roof. I took a long shower, drank several liters of water and fell into a deep sleep.
 When I woke up a few hours later, no one was around. From the terrace, I watched the sun setting pink over the rusty mountains. I followed voices downstairs to the compact kitchen. There, perched on square stools around a low table, were several men playing cards -- and Katja. 
 ''Hi,'' she said cheerily. ''Meet Omar, Omar, Omar, Omar and Hossein.'' 
 While I napped, Katja had conducted a dissertation's worth of anthropological research, with Lahcen translating from Berber into French. Omar the cook had a 6-day-old baby; Omar the young steward, whose black vest led us to call him Omar Noir, had a pregnant 16-year-old wife. Omar Rouge, with the red jacket, stood guard outside the house overnight, and Omar Vert, with the beguiling green eyes, was finishing the garden terrace (the lodge opened only in April). 
 Sometimes, the imams are trained locally, other times they come from farther afield, Katja said. Many women have a baby a year, but women can sometimes overrule their husbands and decide not to have more. Omar Noir's mother had brought some delicious flatbread, and tomorrow we could visit her to see how she bakes it. 
 Omar Noir's house, in the center of the hardscrabble village, was a cluster of mud-brick boxes stacked into the hillside, with a satellite dish on the terrace. His mother had a warm smile and several gold teeth. Her kitchen was a dark, igloo-shaped room with a small hole in the ceiling for ventilation. One exposed bulb hung on the wall. Rabbits scampered on the mud floor. They're good to eat during Ramadan, when food is scarce, Lahcen explained. 
 While Omar's luminous little sisters looked on, his mother pushed flat slabs of dough onto the inner walls of a low kiln. They quickly developed crackly black bubbles, like nan. The bread was chewy and crisp and delicious, and it occurred to me that women like Omar's mother had been baking it the same way for thousands of years. The recent arrival of electricity and running water had barely changed their daily lives. 
 A skinny man in his early 20's with a moustache of adolescent fuzz, Omar Noir spoke little French and less English, but was a physical comic to rival Chaplin. That evening, wearing a white waiter's jacket, he set a heavy tray of dishes on the dining table with an exaggerated sigh, then slumped down on the couch feigning exhaustion, as if to say: ''You saw that my house has dirt floors. Why should I even bother with the farce of Cordon Bleu service?'' 
 After dinner, Lahcen and the Omars sang call-and-response songs, drumming a rhythm on pots and pans. Sometimes they lined up in a row and shimmied their shoulders in a dance. The songs were about courtship and love and the end of childhood friendships, and had no harmonies. 
 After three days in the mountains, Katja had developed blisters so raw that she couldn't hike back to the main lodge, even on a more direct three-and-a-half-hour route. And so, while I trudged along, she was carried most of the way by mule, a veritable Berber princess. 
 We walked the familiar stretch from Imlil to the Kasbah in slow motion, then soothed our aches in the hammam. In our absence, a new crop of guests had gathered on the terrace, some of them day-trippers from Marrakesh, 40 miles away. Greenhorns, we thought to ourselves, with the snobbery of the newly initiated. After our journey to the village and back, we felt like family. 
 Mustafah and the others sent us off with fanfare -- ''A la prochaine, Inshallah!'' they called -- while Lahcen slipped away quietly.
 THE road back to Marrakesh was lined with prickly pear cactuses and silvery olive groves. The driver played 80's Muzak and we sang along, buoyant. 
 After the calm of the Atlas, Marrakesh was a blur -- mopeds, mules and labyrinthine souks with kilims and spices, men in long robes and yellow pointy-toed slippers, little girls playing hopscotch in alleyways at dusk, the vast main square filled with snake charmers like a Delacroix painting come to life -- and everything baked in an intense dry heat that gloriously saps you of all ambition. 
 On our last evening in Morocco, we ate well and drank crisp sauvignon blanc. The restaurant had white tablecloths, fish knives and elegant waiters. Our sandals still had traces of Atlas Mountain dust. We felt as if we'd traversed a thousand years of human development in one long day. 
 We took one look at the disastrously translated menu -- ''vinaigrette of tomatoes believed'' was my favorite, ''cru'' meaning both cooked and believed in French -- and began to laugh uncontrollably. 
 We were exhausted, and oddly despondent. The restaurant was fine -- excellent, really -- only nothing was right. We didn't want whitefish carpaccio and frisee salad with toasted chevre. We wanted the bread baked by Omar's mother in a house with one faucet -- 50 miles and several centuries away.

LUXURY RETREAT IN A RUGGED VALLEY

GETTING THERE
 Royal Air Maroc, British Airways and Air France are among a number of airlines that fly to Marrakesh, often via Casablanca, but sometimes through European cities. A recent Web search for early November found round-trip fares from New York starting at $635 on Iberian via Madrid. 
 Imlil, where the Kasbah du Toubkal is situated, is about 40 miles south of Marrakesh, or about an hour and a half by car on a winding and sometimes dirt road; it is a five-hour drive from Casablanca. The lodge can arrange a car to Imlil from downtown Marrakesh or the airport; the cost is 800 dirhams a car, about $88 at 9 dirhams to the dollar. Taxis from Marrakesh are generally cheaper, but be prepared to bargain. Rental cars are available at Moroccan airports and major cities. 

ACCOMMODATIONS
 The Kasbah -- altitude 5,905 feet -- has eight hotel-style rooms, three private houses, a luxury suite and several dormitory-style rooms sharing a bath. Starting in November, prices range from 35 euros for a spot in a dormitory-style room, to 760 euros (about $45 to $935 at $1.29 to the euro) for a separate house with three bedrooms. A standard double with bath costs 150 euros, while the garden suite, with a wall of windows overlooking a valley, is 420 euros. 
 The Kasbah can accommodate groups of adults and students, and welcomes families. The entire lodge, which sleeps at least 28, can be rented for 5,545 euros a day.
 The remote lodge in Id Issa has three double rooms with baths, each 200 euros a night, with breakfast and dinner, or 550 euros to reserve the whole lodge. Next year, the Kasbah plans to open a second lodge in another valley. 
 The place fills up fast, especially in high season, so it's best to book well in advance. You can call the reservations office, in France, at (33-5) 49-05-01-35, or go to www.kasbahdutoubkal.com. Prices are listed in euros, but all transactions are in British pounds at the prevailing exchange rate. Payment is accepted by MasterCard and Visa only. Credit-card transactions incur a 3.5 percent fee, but debit cards do not. In addition, a 5 percent levy is added to all prices to support the Imlil Village Association.

MEALS
 All meals are served at the Kasbah, but only breakfast -- and tea or coffee whenever you want it -- are included in the room rate. Lunch is 15 euros, dinner 20. Children under 5 eat free, and ages 5 to 15 are charged half price. 
 The Kasbah doesn't serve alcohol, but will gladly store or chill any that you bring. There are no liquor stores in Imlil and environs. 

AMENITIES
 The Kasbah has a spacious hammam with a steam room and cold plunge pool. There are also conference rooms; a library/dining room has books about the area and a solid collection of board games.
 The Kasbah has decent cellphone reception, but no land lines for guests. There's a telephone booth down the hill in Imlil and free Internet access at the Kasbah's office there. By next year, the Kasbah itself expects to have Internet access. 
 The remote lodge is out of range of all modern forms of communication.

HIKING TRIPS
 The Kasbah offers everything from a day trip out of Marrakesh with a short hike, to a fully staffed ascent up Mount Toubkal (two-day minimum, April through October). Prices range from 25 euros a person for a half-day guided hike (minimum two people), to 70 euros a person for a full-day supported hike with guide, cook and muleteer. 
 For more complicated excursions, it's important to book in advance. Shorter hikes can be arranged on site. 

WHEN TO GO
 High season for trekking is April to October, when the snow has mostly melted from the mountains. Nights are cool, even in summer, but the air is dry and the sun warm. Temperatures can reach 90 degrees in August and drop to 25 degrees at night in December, with the most moderate weather in late spring and early fall. RACHEL DONADIO


CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 22 about staying at a resort run by local residents in the High Atlas Mountains of Morocco mistranslated the French word ''cru,'' in referring to a menu item. It means raw, not cooked.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A moonlit view from the Kasbah du Toubkal, which sits in a mile-high valley 40 miles south of Marrakesh
a villager in Id Issa, about 10 miles over a mountain pass from the main lodge
the Kasbah's remote lodge in Id Issa
the central room of the Kasbah, in a renovated former fortified summer palace, also used as the dining room and library. (Photographs by Jehad Nga for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Serenity and meals are served on the terrace of Kasbah du Toubkal. Children outside their homes in a mountain village
the Kasbah at night
a donkey transports goods across the valley.
 The Kasbah du Toubkal sits among the peaks of the High Atlas range. (Photographs by Jehad Nga for The New York Times)(pgs. 8, 9)Map of Morocco highlighting Marrakesh. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (92%); HIKING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); TOURISM (70%); ECOTOURISM (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); BOOK REVIEWS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Travel and Vacations; Hotels and Motels

ORGANIZATION: kasbah du toubkal (morocco)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (50%) Rachel Donadio

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MOROCCO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Morocco; Atlas Mountains (Morocco); Marrakesh (Morocco); id issa (morocco); azzadene valley (morocco)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



501 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: An Early Calculation of Iraq's Cost of War

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
HERE'S a basic question: What has been the cost of the Iraq war for Iraq? As it turns out, it's not easy to find an economist who can provide an answer. Although several studies have dealt with the war's cost to Americans, there has been no comparable work addressing the cost to Iraqis. 
 Of course, the loss of human life has always been evident. Recently, the United Nations estimated that 100 Iraqis were dying each day, on average, as a result of the war. Others have put the number much higher. A recent study in The Lancet, the British medical journal, placed the average daily figure at about 500, amounting to the loss of 2 percent of Iraq's population since the invasion in March 2003. 
The economic cost has been less visible. Published information on the subject is very limited, although one economist, Colin Rowat, has made some preliminary calculations using the best sources available. Professor Rowat, a specialist on the Iraqi economy at the University of Birmingham in Britain, relied mainly on data from the International Monetary Fund to estimate the war's overall effect on the Iraqi economy. His calculations are a work in progress, but what he has found so far is sobering: the cost amounts to a cut of at least 40 percent in Iraq's national income.
 Professor Rowat looked at the six-year stretch from 2000 to 2005 and divided it into thirds. During the first period, 2000-2001, United Nations trade sanctions against Iraq were beginning to crumble; the Security Council lifted the cap on Iraqi oil sales to the rest of the world, and the Iraqi government was becoming adept at getting around the remaining trade restrictions. The second period, 2002 -2003, covers the buildup to war and the invasion itself. The last period, 2004-2005, covers post-invasion years when sanctions were removed. 
 Professor Rowat made several kinds of calculations. First, he estimated the actual change in the size of Iraq's economy. Then he considered the economic effects of foreign aid in 2005, much of it from the United States. (Because foreign aid is regarded as temporary and is expected to taper off, he said, excluding it reveals Iraq's underlying economic performance.) 
 Finally, he estimated how the economy might have performed had the war never happened. This last estimate, of course, depends on a host of assumptions, as Professor Rowat would be the first to say. He assumed, for example, that in the absence of war, Iraq's economy would have been driven by the price of oil. Oil prices are, in fact, crucial to Iraq; according to the World Bank, oil revenue represents 60 percent of the total economy. Professor Rowat also assumed that the economy would have grown from 2002 to 2005 as it did from 2000 to 2001 -- at a pace equal to 71 percent of the rate of increase in world oil prices. Of course, some of the oil-price increase in recent years must be attributed to the Iraq war itself; Professor Rowat acknowledged this but did not attempt to remove that factor from these rough calculations. 
 He readily acknowledged the difficulty of coming up with an undisputed set of figures; nevertheless, his analysis is at least a starting point. 
 Looking first at the actual Iraqi economy, he calculated that it may have grown 3.1 percent a year, on average and after adjusting for inflation, from 2000 through 2005. When he subtracted foreign aid from that total, however, he found that the economy actually contracted 0.2 percent a year over the same period. He said aid was especially crucial in 2005, when it kept the economy afloat. 
 Finally, based on the steep rise in oil prices, he estimated that without a war and with steady oil production, Iraq would have grown 12 percent a year after adjusting for inflation. That rate would have made Iraq one of the fastest-growing economies in the world, albeit one that was expanding from a very small economic base.
 How realistic is this projection? It's hard to say, because so much of it depends on oil economics. Still, the I.M.F. has concluded that the Iraqi economy has the capacity to grow very quickly -- under the right conditions. It now forecasts Iraq's real growth over the next five years at an annual rate averaging better than 10 percent. 
 Using Professor Rowat's calculations, what might the economic cost of the war be for Iraq? If there had been no war, Iraq's economy in 2005 might have amounted to $61 billion in today's dollars, compared with the actual $37 billion, he estimates. That works out to a loss of $24 billion because of the war. Excluding foreign aid from the calculations, the loss estimate is around $30 billion.
 Consider the more conservative figure, $24 billion. It amounts to a 40 percent cut in gross domestic product per capita -- an average loss of around $900 for each Iraqi in 2005.
 Straightforward comparisons with the United States aren't possible, but rough estimates of the war's overall cost to Americans are in the neighborhood of $1 trillion over a 10-year period. That works out to around 1 percent of the nation's income during that period. 
 FOR Iraq, there is no doubt that continuing violence and turmoil are hurting the economy. The I.M.F. stated in a report in August that Iraq's growth was coming from the non-oil economy and that oil production was expected to remain flat this year. Iraq's oil production has not yet returned to prewar levels. The I.M.F. attributed the lack of progress in the oil sector to the violence, which is preventing much-needed investment, and to infrastructure problems.
 While Professor Rowat's calculations represent just one economist's efforts to wrestle with extremely limited data, his work may encourage others to follow. Assessing the war's economic cost for Iraq, of course, doesn't provide an answer to whether the war is worthwhile in the long run. But it does provide a clue.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Of Aid and Oil''In 2005, Iraq's gross domestic product surpassed its prewar levels, but a large part of that increase came from foreign aid. Iraqi oil production remained below prewar levels.Graphs track the following from 1999-2005:PETROLEUM PRODUCTION (MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY)REAL G.D.P. (BILLIONS OF 2006 DOLLARS)(Sources by Central Bank of Iraq, I.M.F., Colin Rowat [G.D.P.], OPEC [oil])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); TRENDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%)

PERSON: Anna Bernasek; Colin Rowat

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (72%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



502 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Children's Books; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 903 words

BYLINE: By SARAH ELLIS. 
Sarah Ellis is a Vancouver librarian and writer for children. Her latest book is ''The Queen's Feet,'' illustrated by Dusan Petricic.

 BODY:
BEHIND THE MASK
 Written and illustrated by Yangsook Choi.
 Unpaged. Frances Foster Books/
 Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $16.
 (Ages 4 to 8) 

LOS GATOS BLACK ON HALLOWEEN
 By Marisa Montes.
 Illustrated by Yuyi Morales.
 Unpaged. Henry Holt & Company. $16.95.
 (Ages 4 to 8)

THE THREE WITCHES 
 Collected by Zora Neale Hurston.
 Adapted by Joyce Carol Thomas. 
 Illustrated by Faith Ringgold. 
 Unpaged. HarperCollins Publishers. $15.99.
 (Ages 6 to 10)
Halloween -- with its emphasis on malevolent creatures, vandalism, death and refined sugar -- is a holiday particularly unsuitable to children. Children, therefore, celebrate it with gusto, keeping its particular traditions somewhat below the radar of parental approval and the forces of commercialization. Apart from a few devotees of wicca, nobody is pushing to put the hallow back in Halloween, and the festival is happily welcoming of a wide variety of cultural customs, the mark of a living folk tradition.
 In ''Behind the Mask,'' by Yangsook Choi, a wistful little Korean-American boy named Kimin decides to go out on Halloween disguised as his late grandfather, wearing the costume and mask that the old man used in his youth as a dancer in Korea. Kimin dances for his fellow trick-or-treaters and they join in. Dinosaur, fairy, jester, tree and hot dog all participate in a suburban American version of ''Talchum,'' a traditional Korean mask dance. ''Trick or treat, smell my feet, give me something good to eat'' meets Asian folk drama.
 The message of the playground melting pot is a bit contrived, but the unpretentious illustrations tell two other stories less obviously. Kimin, like many small children, both loved his aged grandfather and was sometimes afraid of him, and now that his grandfather is dead this ambiguity weighs on him. Wearing Grandpa's clothes lays this ghost to rest.
 The second story is of a tentative, solitary boy who makes the shy person's great discovery: put on a mask and you are liberated into sociability. '' 'Do you want to trick-or-treat with us?' the tuna asked. The mask dancer nodded.'' In the company of Death and an alligator, the old man and the tuna dance down the road and into friendship.
 A curious black kitten leads the way in ''Los Gatos Black on Halloween'' by Marisa Montes, with cheerfully grotesque illustrations by Yuyi Morales. In this rhyming bilingual romp we check in on las brujas (witches), los esqueletos (skeletons) and los fantasmas (ghosts) as they get duded up for a party.
 Everything between these covers is dancing. The rhymes, rich in verbs, are fresh and surprising. ''Las brujas boogie, muertos bop, los esqueletos do the hop. The ghosts in their transparent waltz glide through the wolfman's somersaults.'' Everybody and every non-body, from phantom to zombie, kicks up his heels. The text meanders across the page, fitting itself around the shenanigans of fat witches, natty vampires and elegant corpses. The traditions of Dia de los Muertos meet those of contemporary Halloween as the monster ball is crashed by -- oh horror-- ''human ninos at the door.'' Little trick-or-treaters send the monsters running. A glossary with a pronunciation guide will give confidence to non-Spanish-speaking adults reading aloud.
 ''The Three Witches'' is not precisely a Halloween book, but any storyteller worth her salt will grab it come late October. This folk tale was collected by Zora Neale Hurston while she was traveling in the Gulf States in the 1930's and is here adapted by Joyce Carol Thomas. Two tidy children are treed by three witches who take a notion to eat them. The children keep the witches at bay with magic words -- ''Block eye, chip!'' -- and they call for help, but their protectors are temporarily unavailable. Grandma is asleep and the hound dogs, Counter, Jack and Hickory, are tied up. In the nick of time a helpful snake alerts Grandma, who looses the dogs. Just when everything is about to get very gory -- ''The boy told Counter, 'Kill the witches!' The girl told Jack, 'Suck their blood!' They both told Hickory, 'Eat the bones!' '' -- the story wraps up in a big hurry with the line ''By that time I left.'' 
 The story is economical, direct, suspenseful, full of delicious words -- ''O-ooo! Whyncher, whyncher!'' But what makes it hilarious is Faith Ringgold's portrayal of the witches. These are women of color -- one red, one green, one purple. They sport high heels, big hair, manicured talons, blue lipstick, high-impact earrings and serious overbites. (''Their teeth were far longer than their lips!'') They look as if they would be more comfortable carrying Prada bags than the broadaxes they use to chop down the tree -- but, hey, when eating orphans is your destiny, what can you do?
 In an afterword to ''Behind the Mask,'' Yangsook Choi explains that Korean mask dances often made fun of the ruling class. In ''Los Gatos Black on Halloween'' a headstone bears the name of Cantinflas, the Mexican Charlie Chaplin. In a note to ''The Three Witches'' Joyce Carol Thomas writes, ''Now we're out on a limb gasping at three blind witches hacking away at the tree trunk,'' and we get the impression she's not just referring to the story. What these three stories give us, beyond a laugh and a shiver on Halloween, is folk tale optimism. With community, ritual and disguise, the little guys can prevail. Unhappy with the status quo? Grab a friend and put on the face paint.


GRAPHIC: Drawings: The old man and the tuna, in Yangsook Choi's ''Behind the Mask.''
 Women of color: an illustration by Faith Ringgold from ''The Three Witches.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDPARENTS (88%); LITERATURE (78%); FOLKLORE (74%); WITCHCRAFT (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); DANCERS (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (68%); VANDALISM (56%) Books and Literature; Children and Youth

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (57%)

PERSON: Sarah Ellis; Yangsook Choi; Marisa Montes; Zora Neale (1891-1960) Hurston; Joyce Carol Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NORTHERN ASIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



503 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Supersize Them

BYLINE: By PAUL TOUGH. 
Paul Tough is an editor at The Times Magazine. He is writing a book about the Harlem Children's Zone, a community organization.

 BODY:
CHUTES AND LADDERS
 Navigating the Low-wage
 Labor Market.
 By Katherine S. Newman.
 405 pp. Russell Sage Foundation/
 Harvard University Press. $35.
In 1993, Katherine S. Newman, then a professor in the anthropology department at Columbia University, began conducting interviews with 300 or so young men and women who had applied for just about the least promising jobs you could think of: flipping burgers and running registers at a fast-food franchise in Harlem. Two hundred of them were paid minimum wage to do mind-numbing work, and they were the lucky ones; the other 100 were turned down for those same ill-paying, mind-numbing jobs. It was, Newman says, a terrible time to be a low-wage worker in the inner city. 
 ''Hopeful job seekers were lined up out the door and around the corner; they went home empty-handed,'' she writes. ''Employers simply stuffed back-room filing cabinets with their applications.'' If you did manage to get hired, you were mistreated by bosses, insulted on the job by customers who knew that if you talked back you'd be fired, and taunted on the street by wise guys who made sure you knew you could be making a lot more running drugs. It was a job and a life that seemed to have no future at all. 
 Newman has now been following her subjects for more than a decade. ''Chutes and Ladders'' is her second book about them. It comes at a fortuitous time, as it chronicles a class that has been getting more attention in recent years: the working poor. Best-selling books by Barbara Ehrenreich and David K. Shipler have described these workers as oppressed and trapped, a notch above hopeless, permanent victims of America's predatory new Wal-Mart economy. The appropriate emotion for the rest of us to feel when surveying their plight, Ehrenreich and Shipler agree, is shame.
 Which is why it comes as such a shock when you read Newman's histories of people like Adam (a pseudonym, like all the names in the book). The son of a mother on welfare, Adam dropped out of school after 10th grade, and he was turned down for a job at the restaurant. Doomed, right? Well, no: he is now earning $70,000 a year, with full benefits, as a union driver for an express delivery firm. Or Ebony, who was working behind the counter doling out burgers when Newman met her and is now a receptionist for a fancy law firm, studying to get her B.A. in political science at night. Or Jamilla, who quit her job in the kitchen to go on welfare, an unmarried mother raising her children alone, a classic desperate case -- until she completed her G.E.D. and worked her way through culinary school. She is now a ''stylish professional,'' Newman reports, with a well-paying job in a restaurant in Saks Fifth Avenue. Shame? Try awe. 
 Newman doesn't claim that these success stories are typical. About a third of the 40 people she tracked down and re-interviewed in 2002 were unemployed or still making the minimum wage. But most had moved up, and almost a quarter were what she calls ''high fliers,'' making $15.46 an hour or more. Newman's fractions don't tell you a whole lot, as she herself admits; she's an anthropologist, not an economist, and her sample size is too small to prove much of anything. Her book is valuable, though, as a collection of carefully drawn portraits of people who got their start working at the bottom rung of the American economy -- in a lousy job, in a lousy neighborhood, at the tail end of a recession -- and in many cases managed to escape a situation that seemed inescapable.
 Newman is a patient and sympathetic reporter, and she asked her subjects deep questions about their work histories, their love lives, their politics and their dreams. A lot of what she heard from them will come as a surprise to anyone who has read much recent scholarship on the inner-city poor. The traditional approach of sociologists, Newman writes, is to see the inhabitants of urban ghettoes as outsiders ''separated from the rest of American society,'' in the grip of an ''oppositional culture.'' But the crowd she followed isn't like that at all. They have a strong commitment to middle-class values, she reports, especially around work and welfare. They are, in fact, ''closer to a conservative, 'red state' perspective than the liberal, 'blue state' view that most sociologists, myself included, subscribe to.'' They moralize about deadbeats on welfare -- even those who have been on welfare put down welfare -- and they are proud of the steps, big and small, that they have taken toward middle-class respectability. (''You know that saying, 'Keeping up with the Joneses?' '' Adam asks at one point. ''Well, I'm not keeping up with them. I am the Joneses.'')
 Newman is not blind to the many disadvantages these former burger-flippers face in the marketplace, from outright racism to a lack of the casual social connections that middle-class Americans often use to find and land a job. The system really is sometimes rigged against these workers, and they know it. But despite all this, they speak persuasively and passionately about the way work, even rotten work, gives meaning to their lives. Stories like Adam's and Ebony's only confirm to them what they already believe: that anyone can succeed if they work hard enough. 
 IT is work, Newman writes, that ''sustains a person's sense of place in the American cultural universe.'' More than religion or community or even family, it is the way that Americans figure out who they are. And in that, at least, the working poor turn out to be just like everyone else.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LITERATURE (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); CHILDREN (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); FRANCHISING (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); BESTSELLERS (64%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); LAWYERS (60%); BOOKSTORES (56%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Paul Tough; Katherine S Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



504 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 745 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:
THE CITY OF FALLING ANGELS, by John Berendt. (Penguin Books, $15.) In his first book since the 1994 blockbuster ''Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil,'' Berendt explores another mysterious, derelict city --Venice -- and its diverse cast of aristocrats and lowlifes. His primary focus is the intrigue surrounding a fire that destroyed the historic Fenice Opera House in 1996. ''Amid this swirl of carnivalesque plumage,'' Adam Goodheart wrote in the Book Review, ''Berendt's voice is gentle and tolerant, reveling in human complexities.''
THE WORLD TO COME, by Dara Horn. (Norton, $13.95.) Inspired by a real-life art theft in Manhattan, Horn's richly imagined second novel ponders the nature of art, the trials of adolescence and the betrayals of adulthood. At the story's center is Benjamin Ziskind, a former child prodigy who impulsively steals a painting by Marc Chagall, ''Study for 'Over Vitebsk,' '' from a museum. Through interwoven stories that encompass early Soviet Russia, the Vietnam War and late-20th-century New Jersey, Horn traces the painting's history and the fate of those who possess it. 
 THE VICTORY OF REASON: How Christianity Led to Freedom, Capitalism, and Western Success, by Rodney Stark. (Random House, $15.95.) This bold polemic challenges the argument that religion impeded progress in economics, science and politics, and contends that elements within Christianity actually nurtured such innovations. ''While the other world religions emphasized mystery and intuition,'' Stark writes, ''Christianity alone embraced reason and logic as the primary guide to religious truth.''
 TEAM OF RIVALS: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) This elegant, incisive study makes the case for Lincoln's political genius by examining his relationship with three of his opponents for the Republican nomination in 1860: Senator William H. Seward of New York (who became Lincoln's secretary of state), Gov. Salmon P. Chase of Ohio (who became secretary of the Treasury) and Missouri's elder statesman, Edward Bates (who became attorney general). Our reviewer, James M. McPherson, said Goodwin ''has brilliantly described how Lincoln forged a team that preserved a nation and freed America from the curse of slavery.'' In LINCOLN'S MELANCHOLY: How Depression Challenged a President and Fueled His Greatness (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, $14.95), Joshua Wolf Shenk synthesizes the latest research, family history and eyewitness testimony to argue that Lincoln's suffering ''lent him clarity, discipline and faith in hard times.''
 MAKING IT UP, by Penelope Lively. (Penguin Books, $14.) In this clever ''anti-memoir,'' Lively -- author of a genuine memoir, ''Oleander, Jacaranda,'' and the Booker Prize-winning novel ''Moon Tiger'' --imagines what might have happened if her career, husband or country had been different.
 BOSH AND FLAPDOODLE: Poems, by A. R. Ammons. (Norton, $14.95.) Ammons, who died in 2001 at 75, wrote ''Bosh and Flapdoodle'' during six weeks in 1996. Alternately irreverent and heartbreaking, these poems -- written in two-line stanzas --obsessively return to five subjects: money, poetry, nature, sex and death.
 JESUS LAND: A Memoir, by Julia Scheeres. (Counterpoint, $14.) Scheeres presents a cleareyed and engrossing portrait of growing up in rural Indiana with two adopted black brothers, David and Jerome, who were cruelly neglected by her Christian fundamentalist parents. She recalls the harsh beatings administered to David by her father, the ceaseless racial taunting by schoolchildren and her later decision to join David at a Christian reform school in the Dominican Republic. ''Scheeres is driven by two things,'' Alison Smith wrote here, ''the fierce love she feels for her brother and the rising anger she experiences as she witnesses the injustices he endures.''
 GIRL SLEUTH: Nancy Drew and the Women Who Created Her, by Melanie Rehak. (Harvest/Harcourt, $14.) A critic, poet and unabashed fan of the Nancy Drew mysteries, Rehak brings to life the writers and editors who constituted Carolyn Keene, the pseudonymous author, and details how the character of Nancy Drew has evolved since 1930.
 THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) Kostova's smart retelling of the Dracula story blends history and myth, as an American girl's discovery of a medieval book dredges up her family's long, creepy history of vampire hunting. Ihsan Taylor


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Graziano Arici
 Tim Rose)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); HISTORY (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); ART THEFT (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); FAMILY (74%); PAINTING (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); EYEWITNESSES (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); FIRES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLITICS (69%); TESTIMONY (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (52%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



505 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Tighter Reins for New York Brokers

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FRAUDULENT mortgage brokers and bankers will have a harder time operating freely in New York in the future if Gov. George E. Pataki signs a bill meant to bring the state in line with a number of others that have placed brokers under closer scrutiny. 
 This summer the New York Legislature overwhelmingly passed a bill that requires mortgage loan officers who work for brokerages and mortgage banks to register with the State Department of Banking and to complete educational requirements in order to offer loans to the public. 
The licensing regulations, similar to those already in effect in New Jersey and Connecticut, will make it more difficult for brokers who are fired by one company, or who have been the subject of fraud complaints, to move to different states or companies and to continue defrauding customers. Currently, only employers of loan officers, not the officers themselves, must register with the state.
 Greg Krauza, the president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers, said his organization had been pushing for the passage of this law for about 15 years. Mr. Krauza, who is also the president of Twinstar Mortgage Inc., a brokerage in Fredonia, N.Y., said that although a vast majority of brokers operate ethically, the new law would increase consumer confidence. 
 The law and similar measures in Colorado and Illinois have gained favor amid fast-increasing instances of mortgage fraud, which accounted for slightly more than $1 billion in losses in the 2005 fiscal year, according to the F.B.I. 
 In Congress, a House bill known as the Responsible Lending Act of 2005 has stalled. It would protect consumers against unfair and deceptive lending practices and would require states to license mortgage brokers. 
 Most fraudulent loans, industry analysts said, are originated by mortgage brokers, who will in some instances steer borrowers into financially unsound or fraudulent mortgages so they can get a quick commission.
 The New York law would also help brokerages avoid liability, Mr. Krauza said. For instance, he briefly employed a loan officer several years ago without knowing that the employee had a record of unethical and possibly illegal behavior. ''I'd checked his references before hiring him,'' he said, ''but obviously he left off the lenders or brokers he'd created a problem for.'' 
 Mr. Krauza fired the loan officer before any of the company's clients could be defrauded, but if the proposed licensing system had been in place then, he said, the loan officer's employment record would have been available publicly.
 ''I'm a walking example of the need for this,'' Mr. Krauza said. ''He could have put our clients, and the livelihoods of our other 10 employees, in jeopardy because of something we didn't know.''
 The proposed law dovetails with another industry initiative led by the Conference of State Bank Supervisors, which is creating a single repository for the names of licensed mortgage officers, including details of any legal actions taken against them. That database will be made public in 2008.
 Through a spokeswoman, Governor Pataki declined to say whether he would sign the bill, but Mr. Krauza said, ''We understand there is support in the governor's office.''
 If the measure became law, it would take full effect slowly. Brokers in business before it took effect would have until the end of 2008 to comply. (Employees of mainstream banking institutions whose primary function is not selling mortgages would be exempt from the law.)
 The law's educational requirements would be novel for New York. Each new mortgage loan officer would have to complete 18 hours of industry education initially, and another 18 hours of courses every two years thereafter, including 3 hours of ethics courses.
 Connecticut, by contrast, has no education requirement for mortgage brokers, while New Jersey requires prospective brokers to pass a test on federal and state mortgage practices and laws, among other topics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); LOAN BROKERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FAIR LENDING (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%) Housing; Mortgages; Law and Legislation; Consumer Protection

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%) Banking Department (NYS)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



506 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Where the Front Yard Stretches 1,300 Acres

BYLINE: By WENDY KNIGHT

 BODY:
OF all the attractions at Marabou Ranch, in Steamboat Springs, Colo., Jeff Temple, one of its developers, is most animated about the sharp-tail grouses' mating grounds. ''From April to June each year, about 50 birds come back, so we close off our trails and keep the construction away,'' he explained. ''We set up a viewing area and go out at daybreak to see them.''
 ''Open space is disappearing,'' he said, sounding more like a conservationist than a real estate developer. But Mr. Temple, a fourth-generation Steamboat resident whose father founded the Steamboat Ski Resort, sees a larger picture. ''Here, we're creating a legacy for our kids and grandkids.''
 Mr. Temple and his partners at Due West Land Ltd., which owns the property, have preserved in perpetuity 1,300 of the ranch's 1,700 acres. On the remaining land, they have created 62 lots -- what he calls ''homesteads'' -- of 7 to 10 acres, priced at $2 million to $4 million apiece. 
 ''If we're doing this right, each of our buyers can say they bought a 1,700-acre ranch,'' he said. 
 Marabou, which sits along the Elk River, is among a widening group of expensive developments in Western states that are preserving land. 
 Moonlight Basin in Big Sky, Mont., is another development group that practices what is known as ''constraint-based development.'' In 1992, it bought 25,000 acres in Montana's southwestern corner, much of it slicing through federally protected wilderness areas. Before the developers brought in an excavation crew, they conducted environmental assessments, according to a spokesman, Rich Hohne. ''Then we put together a big map and said, 'O.K., these are the areas we're staying away from.' '' 
 Individual buyers have legally ceded half the land for conservation; the developers expect to put an additional 30 percent in protected status. 
 At Marabou, Mr. Temple said, the developers decided not to place homesites along the Elk River or on the ridgelines, locations that would have reaped handsome profits. ''From a business perspective, this was risky,'' he said.
 ''We've said to potential buyers: 'You can't have a home on the edge of the river. That's for everybody,' '' he said. ''Many of our owners are successful entrepreneurs used to running their own show. If you tell them they can't build their dream house, you risk turning them off, and away.'' 
 But the conservation ethos has not deterred buyers. Since the 62 homesteads were put on sale early this year, 7 have sold, 9 are under contract and 11 have been reserved. 
 ''It's an incredible piece of property,'' said David Rayner, a communications executive from Denver, who bought a nine-acre parcel for $2.65 million this summer. 
 ''The fly fishing on the Elk River is quality,'' he said. A passionate fly fisherman, he has been casting on the river with his son, Michael, 18, throughout the summer and fall. 
 In 2001, he and his wife, Cheryl, bought a 70-acre lot at Storm Mountain Ranch, a 1,000-acre development that was Mr. Temple's first in Steamboat. After four years, the Rayners sold the lot at a 40 percent profit. They plan to build at Marabou once the infrastructure is ''a little further along,'' Mr. Rayner said. 
 The planning process for these low-density developments is lengthy. Mr. Temple estimated that it took an extra year to work out the details with Routt County officials, who supported the conservation approach. Like Moonlight Basin, Marabou consulted wildlife biologists, agriculturists and others to create a master plan that would protect wildlife habitats and support ranching. 
 Potential buyers at Marabou are handed a 137-page design-review checklist that contains stipulations about everything from appliances (which must be energy efficient) to exterior light fixtures (which cannot exceed 25 watts) and landscaping (native vegetation is encouraged).
 ''You have to strike a balance between the amount of open space the county or city wants and the number of homesites that make the project economically feasible for the developer,'' said Greg Hills, a partner in Double Bar X Ranch in Aspen, which is developing 13 sites on 124 acres. The lots there range from 2 to 35 acres and sell for $4.5 million to $13 million each. 
 Pitkin County, which includes Aspen, Colo., has some of the most stringent land-use policies in the country, Mr. Hills said. When developers subdivide larger parcels, they must cluster the houses and set aside areas for open space and moderate-income housing. 
 Because it is in Aspen proper, the Double Bar X benefits from rules that permit owners to build 10,000-square-foot homes while regulations elsewhere in Pitkin County limit home sizes to 5,750 square feet. 
 Yet it is the big sky, not the big house, that has clinched the deal for many buyers at Double Bar X. 
 ''The drama of the site is terrific,'' said a 43-year-old real estate developer and investor who bought a two-acre lot at Double Bar X Ranch for $4.5 million and who, like many buyers in the exclusive parts of Aspen, would speak only if his name was not used. From what would be his front porch, he looks ''down valley'' at the Maroon Creek. Behind him to the east is town, and across the ravine to the south lie the ski mountains.
 Simply because land remains undeveloped does not mean it is unused. 
 ''One great way to preserve open space is to produce food on the land,'' Mr. Temple said. Marabou expects to produce 200 tons of hay a year, most of which the homeowners association will sell. Some will be used as feed for the 55 head of cattle and 15 horses on the property.
 Marabou continues a long tradition of ranching in Steamboat Springs. To avoid overgrazing the land, ranchers rotate the cattle through different paddocks, a process known as ''intensive grazing'' because of the extra work needed to move them. 
 When he is not herding cattle at Marabou Ranch, Chad Bedell, a former world champion steer wrestler, saddles up the horses at the development's barn and equestrian center and rides with owners on the 12 miles of trails. Mr. Bedell is one of five full-time employees whose principal duty is to show residents the art of fun. 
 Other master guides available to Marabou residents include Abi Slingsby, the Colorado state champion in cross-country mountain biking, and Todd Lodwick, an Olympic Nordic skier and ski jumper who has won 17 national titles. 
 ''We're avid skiers, so we're really looking forward to these services,'' Mr. Rayner said of his family. Mrs. Rayner and the couple's daughter, Lauren, 13, also plan to go horseback riding on the property. 
 Unobstructed views and outdoor recreation are not the only reasons that developers in many Western states leave land untouched.
 A critical consideration for Moonlight Basin is preserving wildlife corridors and habitats. It hired Marc Glines, a former Montana state game warden and national park ranger, as the full-time director of wildlife security. To help create a master plan, Mr. Glines said he conducted a game analysis to identify ''sensitive areas for game migration routes and calving areas that should not be built upon or traversed across.'' 
 He estimated that there were 85 species of mammals in the Moonlight ecosystem, including bighorn sheep and grizzly bears. A few weeks ago, Moonlight initiated a 10-year project that will record the animals on the property -- how many, what type and how they use the land. ''We think this will be a model for future wilderness development,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: FREE RANGE -- The Double Bar X Ranch in Aspen, Colo., will have 13 home sites on a 124 acres, selling for $4.5 million to $13 million each. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 FROM EVERY MOUNTAINSIDE -- Fishing is popular at the Double Bar X Ranch in Aspen, Colo. The clubhouse at Storm Mountain, above, in Steamboat Springs. Another development, Marabou Ranch, has fishing tents. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BIRDS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (72%); RESORTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); WILDERNESS (63%) Housing; Ranches; Marabou Ranch; Land Use Policies; Housing

PERSON: Wendy Knight

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Steamboat Springs (Colo); Big Sky (Mont); Pitkin County (Colo); Western States (US) 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



507 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; WHEELSPIN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Car 54, How Fast Are You? An Entrance Exam for Rookie Cruisers 

BYLINE: By DON SHERMAN

DATELINE: Chelsea, Mich. 

 BODY:
AT many law enforcement agencies around the country, a black-and-white cannot wear the uniform or set off in hot pursuit of lawbreakers unless it has first passed muster with the Michigan State Police. 
 Though a rearview mirror full of red and blue flashing lights is something I dread whenever I drive, I volunteered to spend two days last month with the highway patrol of this car-centric state, witnessing the performance tests of 2007 police vehicles. The program is a rigorous evaluation that guides purchase decisions for thousands of police departments, not only in the United States and Canada, but also in far-flung locations like Guam and Australia.
For observers, the atmosphere was intentionally picniclike, right down to the barbecued ribs and sweet corn served at lunch by Ford Motor; that morning, DaimlerChrysler provided breakfast, and dinner came courtesy of General Motors. Still, every time a patrol car whizzed by with its engine wailing I experienced the queasiness we all suffer when a police car comes into view.
 Lt. David Halliday, 52, the manager of the program, eased some of that anxiety by suggesting I call him Doc, a nickname conferred by his troops. A 6-foot-4 teddy bear is hidden beneath his military bearing, burnished by 30 years of law enforcement work, including 24 with the Michigan State Police. 
 Twenty years ago, Lieutenant Halliday was a driving instructor at the state police training academy. His busman's holiday was test-driving new patrol cars at the annual evaluation program, an event that he helped develop into the acid test for police vehicles. According to the National Institute of Justice, an arm of the Department of Justice and a sponsor of the tests, the Michigan results directly influence $1.5 billion of annual sales, in a market of about 70,000 law enforcement vehicles.
 ''Acceleration, top speed and braking evaluations were first conducted by the M.S.P. in the 1950's -- but only on the car from the manufacturer submitting the lowest bid,'' Lieutenant Halliday said, noting Michigan's longstanding role in this business. 
 ''One year, when the gap between the low bid and the runner-up was $4.45, someone asked 'What if we paid an extra $5? Would we receive a better car?' We couldn't answer that question.''
 The need for more information, and turmoil in the industry caused by downsizing in the 1970's, prompted a major overhaul of the evaluation program. For the first time, any automaker willing to provide a car could participate in the test, which was expanded to six categories: acceleration; top speed; braking; vehicle dynamics or high-speed handling; fuel economy; and ergonomics and communications.
 High-speed test-driving is done by four senior instructors in a state police driver-training school commanded by Lieutenant Halliday. Throughout the first test day here at the DaimlerChrysler Chelsea Proving Grounds, drivers gunned throttles and slammed brake pedals to gauge acceleration, top speed and braking performance. Day 2 takes place at Grattan Raceway near Grand Rapids, Mich., a two-mile course where handling was evaluated. 
 Evaluation of ergonomics and communications -- an area rising in importance because of all the communications gear in modern patrol cars -- is performed by a jury of 10 officers who test the cars on a state-owned course near Lansing. Each officer rates vehicles in 28 categories including comfort, functionality, visibility, access to storage areas and ease of routine maintenance, like checking the oil.
 Similar evaluations are conducted in California by the sheriff's department of Los Angeles County; many agencies will buy vehicles only if they excel in both trials. 
 ''The one major difference between Michigan and L.A. tests is the extra emphasis we place on stopping ability when the brakes are hot from repeated use,'' said Lt. Brian Moran, of the Los Angeles sheriff's department, who was in Michigan observing the tests. California's hills and traffic congestion stress brakes more severely than conditions in the Midwest. 
 Lieutenant Halliday runs the Michigan program with a staff of about 50, including colleagues and volunteers. The relationship between law enforcement agencies and the three domestic automakers that build police cars is mutually beneficial; officers provide real-world guidance so automakers produce better vehicles. 
 Police patrol vehicles tested this year consisted of seven sedans, two sport utility vehicles and two station wagons. Other vehicles that would be used by law enforcement -- one pickup, four S.U.V.'s, and one wagon -- were evaluated, too, but were exempted from grueling vehicle dynamics tests because they are seldom used in high-speed pursuit or emergencies. 
 The most interesting entry in that category was a Ford Escape Hybrid, which was tested in response to requests from law enforcement agencies interested in more fuel-efficient vehicles for parking patrols and administrative chores. 
 For safety's sake, observers watch from a compound adjacent to the five-mile banked oval at the proving grounds. One test vehicle at a time whizzed by on acceleration and top-speed runs. A special optical sensor sent precise speed readings to eliminate speedometer error as a factor. In addition, the cars are driven in both directions on the tracks to cancel wind effects. The reported top speed is the maximum velocity attained during a 14-mile full-throttle run. 
 The actual test runs are not especially exciting to witness. ''We've learned how to make our measurements without compromising safety,'' Lieutenant Halliday said. ''But there have been instances when the brakes caught on fire. We've also ripped out axles and plunged through fence lines during accidental off-course excursions.''
 I noticed ample smoke from brakes when the heavy S.U.V.'s were stopped four times from a speed of 90 miles an hour and eight times from 60 m.p.h. At the Grattan track, there was a nearly continuous howl of sliding tires and keening engines as test drivers sped through the turns on the racing line.
 ''Running flat out is an exhilarating experience,'' Sgt. Keith Wilson, the senior test driver, said. ''But the opportunity to contribute to a program with far-reaching importance is an honor and what all of the test drivers savor most.'' 
 The preliminary results in a nutshell: one Dodge Charger patrol car with a Hemi V-8 set the pace with a 6.5-second run to 60 m.p.h. and a top speed of 148 m.p.h. A 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe S.U.V. reached a higher top speed than the ubiquitous Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor sedan, and the Tahoe stopped shorter from 60 m.p.h. The Dodge Charger and Dodge Magnum were by far the hottest pursuit vehicles at Grattan Raceway. (Results are available at michigan.gov/msp.) 
 In my 35 years of testing cars at racetracks and proving grounds, I have never seen evaluations as comprehensive as the ones conducted here. Sergeant Wilson and his fellow test drivers demonstrated an aptitude for speed on the road course that would make them tough competitors on a racetrack should they decide to switch careers.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Ford Police Interceptor is tested on the track in Chelsea, Mich. At right, Sgt. Jim Flegel of the Michigan State Police is one of 50 officers and volunteers conducting the tests. (Photographs courtesy of Michigan State Police)Chart: ''In the Lineup'' lists features and specifications for selected Michigan State Police vehicles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (93%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DRIVER EDUCATION (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); ARMED FORCES (66%) Police; Automobiles ; Tests and Testing; States (US)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

PERSON: Don Sherman

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Michigan; Canada

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



508 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Aluminum Is Striving for Mass Appeal, but With a Lot Less Mass

BYLINE: By KEVIN CAMERON

 BODY:
ANY expectations that technology would only march forward were dinged, if not quite dashed, when Audi revealed details earlier this year of the 2008 TT, the second generation of its stylish sports model, which goes on sale next spring. A proponent of all-aluminum cars, Audi seemed to be stepping backward by building the framework in a blend that was nearly one-third steel.
 The move was not a retreat -- after all, the outgoing TT had a steel chassis -- but an acknowledgment that an all-aluminum structure, while economically feasible for a luxury-class car like the company's flagship A8 sedan, may not be the best choice for a car that costs half as much. As is the case with other advanced technologies, costly features arrive first at the top of the line.
 Chevrolet, Ferrari and Jaguar, among others, make extensive use of aluminum frames to save weight; Audi has built more than 150,000 cars with aluminum space frames. It is now 16 years since Honda introduced the NSX sports car (sold in the United States as an Acura), the first production car with an all-aluminum unibody. 
 Many other makers are using aluminum in body panels like hoods and doors, a practice embraced by Land Rover in the 1940's, to achieve specific weight goals. Aluminum chassis and bodies are the next big step after the long process of adopting aluminum in engines, transmissions and brake calipers -- displacing cast iron in each case.
 Autos have been made of steel for a long time -- and for good reason. Steel has been available in quantity since 1860, so there are many grades and the material is well understood by engineers. It is inexpensive, can be stamped into complex shapes and can be readily joined by welding. 
 Even so, automakers have turned to aluminum as a way to reduce vehicle weight. A major goal is lower fuel consumption, and another goal is improving performance; other factors being equal, lighter cars are quicker in acceleration and stop in shorter distances.
 Substituting aluminum for steel to make a vehicle lighter is not as intuitive as it may seem. Though a given volume of aluminum weighs about one-third as much as steel, it also has only about one-third the stiffness, which seems to imply that an aluminum car would have to weigh just as much as a steel one. How does the lighter metal save weight?
 Automobile chassis and bodies are mostly made of steel sheet, formed into shapes that make it stiff, just as rolling cardboard into a tube stiffens it. To reduce weight, sheet metal thickness can be reduced, but there are limits to how much. 
 This limit is set not by the strength of the material, but by its ability to retain its shape by resisting buckling. If you bend a cardboard tube, it does not break -- it buckles. Auto-body steel may be as thin as about .040 inch, but below that, buckling becomes more likely and stamping it without wrinkling can be difficult. Similar rules apply for chassis structures.
 At equal weights, a square foot of aluminum sheet would be three times as thick as a steel sheet, and this greater thickness gives the aluminum greater resistance to buckling. Therefore it is possible to reduce the thickness of the aluminum to something like 1.5 times that of the original steel (and half the weight), yet still have equal resistance to buckling. This allows aluminum structures to be lighter than steel yet still adequately stiff and strong. The space frame of an Audi A8 -- a design that looks like a cage of aluminum beams -- weighs 548 pounds, some 46 percent lighter than it would in steel. The aluminum chassis of the Chevrolet Corvette Z06 weighs 285 pounds, a weight saving of more than 30 percent compared with an equivalent steel structure.
 The attachment of suspension parts or engine and transmission mounts to a steel chassis requires the alignment and welding of many small stampings. This is simplified in aluminum structures by substituting a single casting -- a process called parts consolidation. Recent developments in aluminum casting yield parts nearly as strong as if they were forged. 
 Switching to an aluminum structure is more complicated than just opening the computer files for the frame designs, erasing the word steel and typing in aluminum. Aluminum forms quite differently from steel -- if too sharply bent, it can crack, and it also springs back more than steel when stamped in a die. The cost per pound is several times that of steel. Partly offsetting this are new methods of aluminum fabrication. Aluminum structures can be designed for computer-controlled laser welding along the seams, replacing many thousands of spot welds that normally hold a steel chassis together. 
 Other methods of aluminum fastening include structural adhesives and rivets that need no predrilling to install. When one operation replaces many, assembly costs fall. Five years ago the cost penalty of an aluminum frame was estimated at about $500 but experience has steadily reduced that disadvantage. Projects like the one that developed the aluminum structure of the Acura NSX offer valuable experience; similar construction techniques were later used in the Honda Insight hybrid. 
 Steel is fighting back. Auto engineering magazines carry advertisements for specialized steels. The 1980's heartbreak of body rust -- all but dropping the windshield in your lap at 80,000 miles -- has been largely eliminated by antirust treatments. 
 Much of the steel versus aluminum debate centers on crashworthiness -- the ability of a vehicle's structure to absorb crash energy gradually as it crushes in a controlled manner. If the vehicle were perfectly rigid it would stop instantly in a barrier crash, subjecting its occupants to huge and probably nonsurvivable deceleration loads. The goal is to dissipate crash energy in the controlled wrinkling of the structure. 
 Heinrich Timm, senior executive of Audi's lightweight materials laboratory, explained that the A8's chassis directed crash energy ''to go into many small folds'' in the metal. After such a crash, these elements look much like a long sock that has fallen down to one's ankle. 
 What about repair? Mr. Timm notes that designing for easier repairs is the key -- making body panels replaceable by attaching them with bolts, not welds. If damage exceeds what can be corrected in this way, the job must be done at an Audi-authorized repair center. In the event of serious damage that compresses the crash energy-absorbing elements, the bolted front structure that incorporates them can be replaced.
 Corrosion is another issue. Rust attacks any exposed steel, but many aluminum alloys are naturally corrosion-resistant. Aluminum recycles especially easily, Mr. Timm notes, because it is clean and has a lower melting point than steel.
 Enthusiasts know that auto racing spent little time with aluminum construction -- instead leaping straight from classic tubular steel chassis to carbon-fiber composites. So why not abandon metals altogether? 
 Production and tooling costs give the marching orders here. Currently, carbon-fiber composite fabrication requires much hand work with costly materials. This is followed by a curing process in a vacuum at elevated temperatures -- not an ideal process for mass- production vehicles. 
 Aluminum, on the other hand, can be worked with less than a total revolution in methods and is also much less expensive than composites. That makes it attractive as an affordable, useful step toward lighter, less fuel-hungry and more capable automobiles.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The 2008 Audi TT uses a second-generation space-frame design of aluminum and steel. Chart/Photos: ''Looking for Light Speed''Aluminum has long been used to reduce weight in cars, though only recently as a structural material. The Acura NSX, introduced in 1991, pioneered the use of aluminum in a unibody chassis built from stampings. Audi's design for the A8 luxury sedan used the space frame concept, with aluminum beams carrying the load. The design of the current Jaguar XJ sedan uses a combination of aluminum beams and stampings.The Acura NSX was the first production car with an all-aluminum structure. The technology developed to build its unibody was used later in the Honda Insight hybrid.The Audi A8 pioneered the aluminum space frame, a design that uses large rectangular tubes to form the basic structure of the car.The Jaguar XJ combines aluminum stampings with frame members connected at joints by rivets and structural adhesives. The XK sports car that followed used largely the same design.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); SEDANS (78%) Automobiles; Aluminum

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



509 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Schools, Property Taxes And Housing Costs 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I am concerned that The Times has joined a chorus that unfairly targets public school spending in general and designated aid to the 31 special needs districts as the cause of the current fiscal crisis in New Jersey (''Crunch Time on Property Taxes,'' editorial, Oct. 15). Surely, this crisis has multiple causes. 
 We should celebrate New Jersey's willingness to spend $11,500 per pupil for the next generation. This investment is also the engine of economic growth and productivity. Not coincidentally, New Jersey recently edged past Connecticut as the state with the highest per capita income.
 We should be equally proud that New Jersey's poorest children in the special needs districts are finally getting a fair shake thanks to the courageous, three-decade bipartisan effort of the New Jersey Supreme Court. This is a historic achievement. 
 To help hard-pressed homeowners, New Jersey might explore what Maine has done by providing a ''circuit breaker'' that reduces property taxes for people whose tax exceeds 4 percent of their income. Revenue for such measures could be found by raising taxes for the very wealthy, who have benefited most from rising income and tax cuts in recent years. 

John C. Woodbury
Ho-Ho-Kus

The writer was New Jersey's deputy commissioner of education, 1991-93.

To the Editor:
 ''Housing Costs Rise. So Does Life on the Edge'' (Oct. 8) provides clear evidence that New Jersey is not building enough housing. The limited housing supply has driven home prices and rents upward, forcing people to pay more than they can afford or else move out of New Jersey in search of a cheaper place to live. 
 Not only isn't there enough housing to meet the demand, but the wrong kind of housing is getting built: according to the latest American Community Survey data, between 2000 and 2005, houses with nine or more rooms, sometimes called ''McMansions,'' increased by 9.3 percent, more than double the rate of increase in total housing units.
 Why is this happening? Again, it's our infamous over-reliance on property taxes to pay for schools and other local services. 
 This system makes it logical for municipalities to favor expensive homes and commercial properties over moderately priced residential development. 
 Regional solutions, like the tax base sharing system in the Meadowlands, can help fix the problem -- and must be considered in the current tax reform debate.

Tim Evans
Trenton

The writer is research director, New Jersey Future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); WRITERS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Editorials; Property Taxes; Taxation; Finances; Education and Schools; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (56%)

PERSON: John C (Comr) Woodbury; Tim Evans

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



510 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2048 words

HEADLINE: For Music's Sake

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
IT can wreck a marriage, reconfigure a home, lead to late-night sorties and seductive soirees -- and yet hundreds of suburbanites nurture an obsession with a seemingly genteel practice: playing chamber music. 
 Behind the placid lawns and condominium walls of New York's suburbs, these amateur musicians cluster around music stands in living rooms and dens after connecting at seminars and on street corners, through e-mail messages, word-of-mouth and cold calls. Many, after studying since childhood, had aspired to performing careers and even attended conservatory, but went instead into law or medicine or accounting or teaching. The yen to play, though, never left, so they live in a parallel musical world of amateur orchestras, ad hoc music sessions and long-established groups that adopt the familiar patterns of married couples (or more often, quartets or quintets).
''It's a great labor of love,'' said William Becker, 75, of West Orange, N.J. ''I lose myself in it.''
 Mr. Becker said that in the early 1980's, he picked up his cello after a long layoff following a ''tremendous personal tragedy,'' one that he did not wish to talk about. 
 ''I found my cello in the attic and got it fixed,'' he said. ''I just needed it. It was there for me. It pulled me back to life.'' 
 He now plays in two amateur orchestras in New Jersey -- the Summit Symphony and the Metropolitan Orchestra in West Orange -- and takes part in chamber music seminars. Scores of such seminars, like music camps for adults, take place around the country, mostly in the summer.
 ''I like playing with other people,'' Mr. Becker said. ''You're sitting there, and you're playing. You know you may not be playing perfectly in tune, and your interpretation may be bizarre, but the fact is, there are times where it really sounds good. It's transforming. It's transcendental -- is that the word?''
 Many of the amateurs, like Mr. Becker, a former securities analyst, are retirees who have the leisure time to play and who delight in the social connections. Others have to maneuver around the schedules of their young children to find time to rehearse. Still others are single and keep their antennae up for potential mates when they join new chamber ensembles. 
 Groups form and dissolve, often fed by the amateur orchestras that dot the region. They are all part of the larger universe of amateur classical music-making, which includes choruses. 
 Playing at home and for the love of it is an unseen aspect of the nation's cultural life, an activity that follows a direct line from 18th-century European drawing rooms to 21st-century family rooms. Nowadays, e-mail has made organizing groups much easier. Musicians also have a formal network, the Amateur Chamber Music Players association, which publishes directories listing willing players around the world. Its Web site quickly yields a handful of oboists or double bassists in any given region. Players grade themselves according to the association's guidelines and list their instruments, contact information, availability and languages spoken. 
 The association lists 75 members in northern New Jersey, about 50 each in southern Connecticut, Long Island and Westchester and 200 in the five boroughs of New York. Countless other music makers, of course, do not belong to it.
 Community orchestras and music seminars are also an important source for playing partners. So are chance encounters.
 ''I've met somebody on the street with an instrument and said, 'Hey, you want to play quartets?' '' said Lucretia M. Harrison of Port Washington, N.Y. Ms. Harrison, a violist, said she plays quartets once or twice a week, and performs occasionally at gatherings of the Port Washington Music Study Club in Nassau County, ''a bunch of ladies that meet once a month in people's homes and perform for each other.''
 The habit is ingrained in Ms. Harrison, a wry 85-year-old who has been playing chamber music for more than 60 years.
 The quartet that she has been playing with has been ''very tolerant'' of her, she said, ''although I miss some of the notes.''
 Ms. Harrison said she started playing violin in the fourth grade and switched to viola several years later. She formed her first quartet in high school in Port Washington, meeting the other members in an amateur opera company. As a young adult, she moved in with her sister in Manhattan, where an old boyfriend from high school tracked her down.
 ''He came a-courtin','' she said. ''So, by golly, we got married, and I moved back to Port Washington.'' 
 She worked as a public school teacher and librarian and raised four children, one of whom, a son, is an amateur French horn player. 
 Days after being interviewed, Ms. Harrison fell in her home and broke a hip. Yet she was undaunted and determined to keep playing. ''I couldn't live if I couldn't get back to it,'' she said in a later interview. ''If it takes three weeks or three months or three years, I'll get back to it.''
 Joseph Gluck, a violinist who retired from the New Jersey Symphony two years ago, runs a weekend workshop in Maplewood that has 82 people signed up. Mostly string players, they are generally assigned to groups by Mr. Gluck and rehearse for two hours on Saturdays. A coach counsels them for one of the two hours of the session. At the fourth session, they perform for each other. The cost is $160. The sessions take place in an Ethical Culture Society building.
 Mr. Gluck said he must negotiate around musicians who rate themselves too highly, or too modestly. ''I always try to encourage people to believe that if they are the strongest person in the group, it's a wonderful opportunity to share their knowledge and expertise,'' he said. 
 At the same time, he does not blame people for wanting to play with others at their own level.
 ''If I'm good at something, it's maintaining an atmosphere where people lose their competitive edges and try to remember we're playing music as a joyful experience, and to leave all the stuff that they do in real life away from the building and just come here for the pure joy of the whole thing.''
 Professional musicians sometimes get caught up in the business aspects of performing, Mr. Gluck said. ''But when you surround yourself with people who are doing it with one motivation, who love music, it infects oneself and keeps you optimistic,'' he said.
 The nature of suburban life, including the need to travel by car, often on heavily trafficked roads, inevitably creates differences in the way chamber music is lived in New York City and outside of it. Suburban players say there seems to be less socializing after music sessions, partly because of the time it takes to drive home. But the hours invested in travel also imply a greater commitment to the sessions.
 ''Just to try to get four people together at a common time is quite difficult,'' said Lisa Uckardes, a violinist and public school string teacher from Hicksville, N.Y. ''Honestly, I wouldn't look past Queens for anything because the traffic can really be kind of bad.''
 Groups that may not be compatible will often stay together because it is harder to find a substitute nearby, some players said. At the same time, playing in a house as opposed to an apartment means there is less worry about disturbing the neighbors downstairs, so rehearsals can go longer and later. 
 But living in a house has not necessarily made rehearsing easier for Kevin Root, a cello-playing psychotherapist who lives in Greenwich, Conn. He has 13-year-old identical twin boys whose presence makes scheduling music sessions difficult.
 ''They're as rambunctious as the day is long,'' he said. ''They would never allow me to take up that much space.'' His solution would probably not occur in Manhattan. He is converting his garage into a chamber music room in a $20,000 renovation.
 In many ways, Mr. Root exemplifies the rhythms and customs of the amateur chamber musician. He plays in an amateur group called the American Chamber Orchestra, based in Fairfield County. During a break in a rehearsal a little more than six months ago he turned to a violist nearby and asked if she would be interested in playing string quartets.
 ''She said, 'Definitely,' '' Mr. Root recalled. Whom, they wondered, could they recruit? The violist, who runs an after-school string program, mentioned a violin teacher who had recently graduated from the Eastman School of Music, in Rochester. The violist also brought in a second violinist she had played with years ago. 
 Presto, a string quartet.
 ''We get along quite well,'' Mr. Root said. ''That seems to be at least 50 percent of playing music, the ability to get along. I find it extremely difficult to put together groups, because of personality conflicts.''
 In fact, he said, it has taken him 10 years to form a quartet that stuck. Once, a nascent group fell apart because the first violinist had a ''dictatorial approach'' to playing music. ''No one wanted to play again,'' he said. ''It's personalities that just have to jell.''
 Another quartet lasted only six months. The first violinist was a conservatory-trained pianist who taught himself the violin. ''He sounded like a pianist playing the violin,'' Mr. Root said. ''He was very percussive. I couldn't stand to play with him anymore. I had to remove myself from that group.''
 In another case, Mr. Root said, he joined a quartet with a woman who had recently divorced. ''She decided she wanted me to be her boyfriend,'' he said. ''That fell apart very quickly.''
 Mismatched ability levels can also be a problem. A weaker player can frustrate the stronger players. 
 ''It's very hard to find the proper level and somebody you like and want to be with,'' said Lori C. Marden, a violinist also of Greenwich. Ms. Marden, a committed practicer, generally plays trios with a pianist and cellist on Monday mornings; string quartets from morning until after lunch every other Wednesday or so; and duos with a pianist on Friday mornings.
 ''I'm a fanatic,'' she said. ''It's part of me. There's no way that I could not do this. Music is so much a part of my life. It's always in my head, always.''
 Ms. Marden, who is unmarried, said she sometimes wondered how people dealt with enthusiastic music-making spouses. A pianist she has played with was married to a nonmusician, she said. ''The pianist became much more of a pianist and practiced all the time, and the marriage broke up,'' she said. The pianist later married a horn player, Ms. Marden said, adding that they remain happily together. 
 Some musical groups last longer than many marriages.
 Dr. Ralph Kirmser of Wilton, Conn., an oboist, founded a woodwind quintet 25 years ago with a French horn player, who remains with the group. (The other three members have changed.) ''We're called the Prevailing Winds,'' Dr. Kirmser said.
 The quintet often performs in nursing homes and libraries. ''It makes a difference,'' Dr. Kirmser said. ''It really focuses our rehearsals.''
 The personnel is typical: the horn player is a lawyer in Fairfield; the bassoonist is a dentist in Westport; a Bridgeport lawyer plays flute; the clarinetist teaches music in the Greenwich school system; and Dr. Kirmser is a cardiologist at Norwalk Hospital. 
 Dr. Kirmser recently began playing with another quintet, based in New York City. The commute to rehearsals takes him an hour. ''It adds a certain level of difficulty to get in there, and hence commitment to keep that group going,'' he said.
 Other amateur players eschew performances, preferring to sight-read or rehearse just for themselves.
 ''You have to have more dedication,'' said Michael Ira Asen, an oboist who lives in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Mr. Asen said his wind quintet had given only a few performances since its founding in 1995. 
 A litigator during the week, Mr. Asen turns the weekends over to tennis and the oboe. He practices for an hour on Saturday afternoon. His golden retriever, Mr. Asen asserts, keeps track of wrong notes and bad intonation with a bark. On Sunday morning, ''the guys'' gather at the home of a member of the quintet, which also includes a doctor, an economics professor, a retired lawyer and a marketing executive. 
 ''There is something really extraordinary about playing music,'' Mr. Asen said. ''It elevates you.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STRING TIME -- Kevin Root, right, a cellist, and Polly Jimenez, a violist, during a chamber music session at her home in Stamford, Conn. Allison McCann, a violinist, completed the trio. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
MAKING MUSIC -- A quintet rehearsing in the Larchmont, N.Y., home of its bassoonist, Michael Edelstein, above right, included, from left: Bill Salatino on clarinet
Mark Burns, on flute
Leslie Mantrone, back to camera, on French horn
and Michael Asen, whose oboe is obscured. Two cellists among the many string players who participate in amateur chamber sessions: Kevin Root, far right, in Stamford, Conn.
and Bill Becker in Maplewood, N.J.
 A LITTLE HELP -- Joseph Gluck, center, a former New Jersey Symphony violinist, coaching a quartet that includes Helen Kong on cello and Steve Rasch on violin at the Ethical Culture Society in Maplewood, N.J. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); SUBURBS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CITIES (64%) Music

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



511 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across New Jersey this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the New Jersey Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to njcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of New Jersey

Newark Board of Public Utilities. Wednesday at 10 a.m. Board hearing room, eighth floor, Two Gateway Center. (973) 648-3426.
Trenton Assembly Homeland Security and State Preparedness Committee. Monday at 2 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Senate Economic Growth Committee. Monday at 10 a.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Senate Environmental Committee. Monday at 10 a.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Senate Commerce Committee. Monday at 1 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Joint Legislative Committee on Public School Funding Reform. Tuesday at 1 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton New Jersey Death Penalty Study Commission. Wednesday at 1 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.

Atlantic County

Hammonton Town Council. Monday at noon. Hammonton Town Hall, 100 Central Avenue. (609) 567-4300.
Northfield Board of Chosen Freeholders. Tuesday at 4 p.m. Atlantic County Government, 201 South Shore Road. (609) 645-5900.

Bergen County

Dumont Free asthma seminar for parents and children ages 4 to 12. Registration required. Thursday at 6:30-8 p.m. Grant School, 100 Grant Avenue. (201) 634-2700.
Fort Lee City Council. Thursday at 8 p.m. 309 Main Street. (201) 592-3727.
Hillsdale Planning Board. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Borough Hall, 380 Hillsdale Avenue. (201) 666-4800, ext. 5007.
River Edge Borough Council. Monday at 8 p.m. River Edge Municipal Building, 705 Kinderkamack Road. (201) 599-6303.

Essex County

Cedar Grove Township Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Cedar Grove Council Chambers, 525 Pompton Avenue. (973) 239-1410.
Roseland Planning Board. Monday at 7 p.m. Roseland Borough Hall, 19 Harrison Avenue. (973) 226-6565.
Verona Planning Board. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Town Hall, 600 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 239-9000.

Hudson County

Bayonne Historic Preservation Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Municipal Building, 630 Avenue C. (201) 858-6000.
Jersey City Board of Chosen Freeholders. Thursday at 1 p.m. County Annex Building, 567 Pavonia Avenue. (201) 795-6001.

Mercer County

Princeton Environmental Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Princeton Town Council, 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 921-1359.
Princeton Township Committee. Monday at 7 p.m. Princeton Town Council, 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-5176.

Monmouth County

Belmar Borough Council. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Belmar Borough Hall, 601 Main Street. (732) 681-3700.
Freehold Board of Chosen Freeholders. Thursday at 7 p.m. Hall of Records, 1 East Main Street. (732) 431-7000.

Morris County

Morris Plains Social Services Board. Thursday at 5 p.m. Morris View III, West Hanover Avenue. (973) 285-6000.
Morris Township Park Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Park Commission Headquarters, East Hanover Avenue. (973) 326-7600.
Morristown Human Services Advisory Council. Wednesday at 6 p.m. 30 Schuyler Place. (973) 326-7270.

Passaic County

Paterson Board of Chosen Freeholders. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Administration Building, 401 Grand Street. (973) 881-4000.
Wayne Township Council. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Wayne Town Hall, 475 Valley Road. (973) 694-1800, ext. 3208.

Union County

Cranford Township Committee. Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. Municipal Building, 8 Springfield Avenue. (908) 709-7200.
Elizabeth Board of Chosen Freeholders. Thursday at 7 p.m. Administration Building, 10 Elizabethtown Plaza. (908) 527-4140.
Elizabeth City Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. City Hall, 50 Winfield Scott Plaza. (908) 820-4263.
Union Township Committee. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Municipal Building, 1976 Morris Avenue. (908) 688-2800.

Warren County

Columbia Planning Board. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Knowlton Municipal Building, 628 Route 94. (908) 496-4816.
Phillipsburg Historic Preservation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Pohatcong Municipal Building, 50 Municipal Drive. (908) 995-7059.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); CHILDREN (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (69%); ASTHMA (68%); EDUCATION FUNDING (66%); PARENTING (66%); EDUCATION REFORM (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); HISTORY (65%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



512 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Gateway Newark

BYLINE: By Julia Vitullo-Martin. 
Julia Vitullo-Martin is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute.

 BODY:
WITH his first 100 days behind him, Mayor Cory Booker of Newark is already immersed in the difficult task of administering a city that Harper's Magazine once called the worst in America. Mayor Booker is young, smart and likable, but restoring his city to prosperity is not going to be easy. Soon after he took office, after a campaign in which he announced that public safety would be his top priority, both homicides and shootings in the city spiked. In effect, Newark welcomed its new mayor with a mini crime wave. 
 To borrow a favorite Booker word, the fundamental challenges facing Newark are ''daunting.'' The city is a living laboratory for nearly every bad planning idea of the 20th century. Urban renewal destroyed whole neighborhoods, replacing low-rise, vernacular residences with public housing projects. Built on superblocks, the projects wiped out the original grid as well as commercial and retail activity. Interstate highways cut the city into pieces, dividing and isolating neighborhoods. And crime, of course, made sport of the general civic unraveling. 
Corporations, most prominently Prudential Insurance, tried to help. But to protect employees from the deteriorating environment, they built fortress-like towers, connected to the train station and to one another by skywalks, bypassing the streets below and walling off the waterfront with parking garages and hostile architecture. Meanwhile, surface roads were widened to facilitate traffic, making escape to the suburbs more efficient. Gradually, shops and restaurants closed, leaving a few dejected discount stores behind.
 Despite this bleak history, there is cause for hope. Newark rightly calls itself a ''gateway'' -- in transportation the city has it all: a major international airport 10 minutes away; an international container port on the waterfront; passenger and freight railroads; light rail; and major highways. Newark is more accessible than almost any city of its size in America. 
 Moreover, unlike St. Louis, Detroit or Buffalo, Newark is situated in the heart of the most dynamic and economically powerful metropolitan region in the country. If the value of real estate is indeed derived from location, there is no reason for Newark to remain a crime-ridden, failing city of vacant lots and underused property bordered by a forlorn waterfront.
 That's why the Booker administration must emphasize a second priority right behind public safety-- development. To return people to the city's streets, parks and public spaces -- and to increase the tax base -- Newark needs intense, mixed-use development on vacant land as well as conversion of its many abandoned industrial buildings.
 The goal is to drive out harmful uses of space, like drug dealing, and replace them with positive uses -- people working, walking, shopping and playing in the parks. This can happen only if the administration accelerates the pace of redevelopment that has already begun, including the renovation of two magnificent downtown Art Deco buildings, one for offices, the other for residences. 
 To capitalize on its latent strengths, Newark should pursue three strategies:
 First, promote market-rate housing in the downtown core and publicize Newark's bargain prices. Though Newark is only 15 minutes by PATH train from Midtown Manhattan, luxury apartments in Newark rent for about half the price of those in Manhattan. In a bargain-scarce metropolitan region, a $1,500 per month luxury one-bedroom can attract urban pioneers to transitional neighborhoods, just as similar bargains attracted residents to Jersey City a decade ago.
 Second, invigorate the empty, largely inaccessible waterfront and reconnect it to downtown. The informal waterfront evenings organized last summer by the New Jersey Performing Arts Center proved that people will flock to Newark's waterfront if given access and a reason. The once decrepit waterfronts of diverse cities like Milwaukee, San Antonio, and Miami now teem with people, life, and revenue -- and so can Newark's.
 Third, clean up the city with business improvement districts. Newark's dejected appearance is in part due to its abundance of vacant property. But it's also a result of outdated and inappropriate signs and facades, says Linda Epps, president of the New Jersey Historical Society. ''We need a plan for the kind of image the city wants to project,'' Ms. Epps said, ''one that applauds the wonderful old architecture that hasn't been taken advantage of.'' 
 One proven mechanism is the creation of business improvement districts, in which successful property owners join those who need help. All parties contribute, with the wealthiest paying the largest share, to clean up and improve business areas for all. 
 There is no denying the challenges Newark faces. But with energetic new leadership and the right development strategies, the city can come back. Of the many post-industrial cities still devastated by the effects of job loss, urban renewal, federal redlining, highway construction, riots, flight to the suburbs, corruption and mismanagement, Newark has the best chance of returning to the ranks of the successful. 
 The right development will capitalize on Newark's strategic location, realizing a long-desired ''gateway'' not only to New York City, but to a prosperous future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); TRENDS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); TRAINS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); HARBORS & PORTS (70%); SUBURBS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); RAIL FREIGHT (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%); AIRPORTS (63%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Area Planning and Renewal; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Julia Vitullo-Martin; Cory (Mayor) Booker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



513 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: For Latinos, Familiar Faces May Not Be Friendly Bosses 

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
GLORIA AZPEITIA worked as a secretary in Mexico before she came to this country in 1993, and for a while managed to get by selling tamales door to door. Then eight years ago she began cleaning houses, preferring to work for other Latinos because they also spoke Spanish and, she said, were more understanding of her needs.
 That is why, Ms. Azpeitia said, she was stunned three years ago when a Mexican-American boss she had worked for for two years suddenly showed his authoritarian side after her daughter went into labor and Ms. Azpeitia showed up late because of the family emergency.
'' 'I'm going to punish you,' he said, like I was a little girl,'' Ms. Azpeitia recalled. '' 'You're going to do more for the same price.' '' 
 She quit on the spot, she said, offended by his condescension. And while such a reaction could have come from any boss, that it came from a Latino, she said, felt ''like a bucket of hot water.''
 ''It hurts more when it comes from Latin people because they are compatriots,'' said Ms. Azpeitia, 50, who is divorced and has two daughters and five grandchildren. ''We all need each other. They forget we are all the same.''
 In the employment market for both legal and illegal immigrants, many nannies and maids are finding their first jobs among the older generations of Latinos, who are now in a position to hire domestic help. But while the two groups of strivers may gravitate toward each other because of cultural and language similarities, their intersection can also be fraught with odd tensions and broken expectations, say researchers, employers and workers.
 A slight, for instance, can take on new dimensions. 
 ''Sometimes the skin is kind of thin,'' said Leo Chavez, an anthropology professor and director of the Center for Research on Latinos in a Global Society at the University of California, Irvine. ''If an Anglo says something, they let it shake off, but when a Latino says it, they are hurt. They expect empathy.''
 Immigration has spawned a Hispanic population that is now 60 percent American-born and 40 percent immigrant. Particularly in established Latino footholds like California and Florida, the educational and economic gains among American-born Latinos enable many to offer work to immigrants in their businesses and homes, although there are no hard figures on the frequency of these ''co-ethnic'' interactions.
 According to an analysis of census figures by the Pew Hispanic Center, 36 percent of Hispanic households in 2002 had assets that put them in the middle class, and 7 percent more belonged in the top ranks of wealth. While cheap labor and availability play a role in Latinos' seeking Latino workers, employers are also motivated by personal reasons, like wanting their children to grow up bilingual through daily interaction with a Spanish-speaking nanny. And for workers without English and an understanding of American culture, turning to other Latinos for jobs at least guarantees communication and some degree of familiarity in a foreign land. 
 Reina I. Flamenco, 43, a Salvadoran nanny, said she is never certain what she has just agreed to when working for English-speaking employers.
 ''When she gave me cooking instructions, I was like, did she mean she wanted her eggs scrambled or fried?'' Ms. Flamenco said of one.
 ''Once they told me, 'When you leave, don't let the cat out,' but sometimes I'd be so insecure. Did she say to leave the cat inside or outside? It's hard because I don't want people to get mad.'' 
 Carmen Denis, the coordinator of the Caring Hands job-training program at Mujeres Unidas y Activas, a Bay Area group for immigrant Latinas, said most members are undocumented, recently arrived, and ''in the beginning they resist working with English-speaking families.'' 
 But the dynamics of Latinos working for other Latinos also depend on class, sociologists and others familiar with the labor market said: on whether, for example, the employers come from families who also labored in menial jobs. Nowhere are the social relations more intimate than in the close quarters of a home. For the workers, there can be both benefits and tensions in the same household.
 Marta Rodriguez, 33, works for a Latina who hired her to care for her elderly mother twice a week. She said her employer is always available to help with translations and calls that require English. The employer, a real estate agent, also encourages her to go to school and aim high, Ms. Rodriguez said.
 But she said that the employer's own experience as a hotel housekeeper 30 years ago, when she came to this country from Argentina, has made her unusually demanding. Ms. Rodriguez, who is married to a baker and has five children, said she is also expected to clean, cook and garden. She must use a toothbrush to get dirt out of windowsills, she said, and must clean floors on her knees as if they were ''a work of art.''
 ''She says, 'You're going to leave here well taught,' '' Ms. Rodriguez said.
 But some employers say they have a deeply personal reason to seek Latino employees: They want to help a fellow Latino who sometimes reminds them of the struggles of their own parents.
 Elizabeth Gallagher, 52, who owns a general contracting business in Las Vegas, said that her mother made a living as a maid for most of her working life after her father died when Ms. Gallagher was 5. Now that she is able to offer work to a Latino, at home and at her company, she said, ''I try to bring people up along with myself.''
 ''I know how hard my mother worked, and there were times we didn't have food,'' said Ms. Gallagher, who grew up in Tucson and has four siblings.
 Some Latino employers have more practical reasons. When Stella Blankenship's elderly father was hospitalized, and it was obvious he could no longer take care of her mother alone, Ms. Blankenship, 50, a registered nurse in the Bay Area, said she desperately called employment agencies to find a companion who spoke Spanish.
 Her mother, Lupe Valencia, 82, who never learned English well and suffers from Alzheimer's, needed someone she could connect with, Ms. Blankenship said. So in came Maria Guadalupe Calvillo, 36, who came from Mexico like her parents and had toiled as an immigrant as they did when they arrived in this country in the 1950's, her mother as a laundress, her father working in the field and laying railroad tracks.
 Ms. Calvillo, who is married and has two young children, cooks Mexican treats like fried tripe, tongue tacos and bread pudding. When Mrs. Valencia has a bad day, they hold hands and pray together to the Virgin of Guadalupe for a cure.
 Ms. Blankenship's father, Bernardo Valencia, 80, who still works as a notary public despite diabetes and heart disease, says of Ms. Calvillo, ''She has the humanity and kindness typical of the State of Michoacan,'' where she comes from.
 Ms. Calvillo, too, has wrapped emotions around the couple that go beyond the employee-employer relationship.
 ''My mother died of cancer 10 years ago, and I would have liked to have taken care of her the way I do with la senora Lupita,'' said Ms. Calvillo, who works from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. on weekdays and is paid $15 an hour. ''She treats me with so much affection, and that is what reminds me of my mother.''
 When relationships work, there is a deep comfort level, cultural sensitivity and communion of values and customs. But some Latina domestic workers say they avoid Latino employers because of the attitudes some bring from their home countries, like treating workers like servants or haggling over pay. 
 In some surveys Latino employers get mixed reviews. ''It's a mixed bag,'' said Abel Valenzuela Jr., an urban planning professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has surveyed workers and employers. ''You have Latino employers who want to help immigrants and understand their struggle,'' he added. ''But not all Latinos are benevolent.''
 In a study of 500 day laborers Professor Valenzuela did in 1999, the workers ranked Latinos lower than Anglos in fair treatment, but higher than Asians and right alongside blacks. The workers were employed by homeowners as construction laborers, landscapers and painters.
 Professor Valenzuela said the workers may be holding Latinos to a higher standard than other employers. ''Here's a Latino who has the means to hire them,'' he said. ''The workers have higher expectations.''
 AMONG Latina nannies, house cleaners and companions, common complaints about bosses, regardless of ethnicity, revolve around being asked to do more work than was originally agreed upon for the same pay, having their working hours extended, being constantly watched while they work and having to put up with difficult employers. ''They complain that their bosses take out their frustrations on them,'' said Ms. Denis of Mujeres Unidas y Activas.
 But pay is the biggest issue, Ms. Denis said, since most of the women are heads of household. A 2004 survey of 247 domestic workers by a coalition of groups that represent the women in the Bay Area found that most of the workers reported being unable to meet basic living expenses and that most worked overtime without compensation.
 A bill that would ensure overtime for nannies and allow them and other domestic workers to sue for back wages was vetoed last month by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who said it would encourage frivolous litigation. 
 But while household workers lack many basic worker rights like health insurance and paid days off, they can still seek to ''do the job with dignity,'' said Guillermina Castellanos, a coordinator of worker programs at La Raza Centro Legal here. The most active of the women teach one another how to fend for themselves at organizations like La Raza and Mujeres Unidas y Activas. Housed in the Women's Building in the Mission District, Mujeres trains women to negotiate hours, to clean with natural products like vinegar and baking soda and to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
 Ms. Azpeitia, a Mujeres member, said she is cleaning for a Latina employer who shares her values and ''sentimientos.'' Her employer didn't make a fuss, for example, when Ms. Azpeitia showed up for work with her granddaughter on one occasion because her daughter couldn't take care of the child. ''She said, 'No problem, turn the TV on,' '' Ms. Azpeitia said. 
 ''Because she is Latina she knows how to value me.'' And in the end, Ms. Azpeitia said, she looks at her Latino employers as role models.
 ''If they could make it,'' she said, ''why wouldn't I accomplish the same?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TWO SIDES -- Maria Guadalupe Calvillo, far left, cares for Lupe Valencia. Gloria Azpeitia, left, quit a job when her boss offended her.
 HOME AWAY FROM HOME -- Marta Rodriguez said that her Latina employer is supportive and encouraging, if demanding. (Photographs by Darcy Padilla for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); CENSUS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (60%) Domestic Service; Hispanic-Americans

PERSON: Mireya Navarro

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



514 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2048 words

HEADLINE: For Music's Sake

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
IT can wreck a marriage, reconfigure a home, lead to late-night sorties and seductive soirees -- and yet hundreds of suburbanites nurture an obsession with a seemingly genteel practice: playing chamber music. 
 Behind the placid lawns and condominium walls of New York's suburbs, these amateur musicians cluster around music stands in living rooms and dens after connecting at seminars and on street corners, through e-mail messages, word-of-mouth and cold calls. Many, after studying since childhood, had aspired to performing careers and even attended conservatory, but went instead into law or medicine or accounting or teaching. The yen to play, though, never left, so they live in a parallel musical world of amateur orchestras, ad hoc music sessions and long-established groups that adopt the familiar patterns of married couples (or more often, quartets or quintets).
''It's a great labor of love,'' said William Becker, 75, of West Orange, N.J. ''I lose myself in it.''
 Mr. Becker said that in the early 1980's, he picked up his cello after a long layoff following a ''tremendous personal tragedy,'' one that he did not wish to talk about. 
 ''I found my cello in the attic and got it fixed,'' he said. ''I just needed it. It was there for me. It pulled me back to life.'' 
 He now plays in two amateur orchestras in New Jersey -- the Summit Symphony and the Metropolitan Orchestra in West Orange -- and takes part in chamber music seminars. Scores of such seminars, like music camps for adults, take place around the country, mostly in the summer.
 ''I like playing with other people,'' Mr. Becker said. ''You're sitting there, and you're playing. You know you may not be playing perfectly in tune, and your interpretation may be bizarre, but the fact is, there are times where it really sounds good. It's transforming. It's transcendental -- is that the word?''
 Many of the amateurs, like Mr. Becker, a former securities analyst, are retirees who have the leisure time to play and who delight in the social connections. Others have to maneuver around the schedules of their young children to find time to rehearse. Still others are single and keep their antennae up for potential mates when they join new chamber ensembles. 
 Groups form and dissolve, often fed by the amateur orchestras that dot the region. They are all part of the larger universe of amateur classical music-making, which includes choruses. 
 Playing at home and for the love of it is an unseen aspect of the nation's cultural life, an activity that follows a direct line from 18th-century European drawing rooms to 21st-century family rooms. Nowadays, e-mail has made organizing groups much easier. Musicians also have a formal network, the Amateur Chamber Music Players association, which publishes directories listing willing players around the world. Its Web site quickly yields a handful of oboists or double bassists in any given region. Players grade themselves according to the association's guidelines and list their instruments, contact information, availability and languages spoken. 
 The association lists 75 members in northern New Jersey, about 50 each in southern Connecticut, Long Island and Westchester and 200 in the five boroughs of New York. Countless other music makers, of course, do not belong to it.
 Community orchestras and music seminars are also an important source for playing partners. So are chance encounters.
 ''I've met somebody on the street with an instrument and said, 'Hey, you want to play quartets?' '' said Lucretia M. Harrison of Port Washington, N.Y. Ms. Harrison, a violist, said she plays quartets once or twice a week, and performs occasionally at gatherings of the Port Washington Music Study Club in Nassau County, ''a bunch of ladies that meet once a month in people's homes and perform for each other.''
 The habit is ingrained in Ms. Harrison, a wry 85-year-old who has been playing chamber music for more than 60 years.
 The quartet that she has been playing with has been ''very tolerant'' of her, she said, ''although I miss some of the notes.''
 Ms. Harrison said she started playing violin in the fourth grade and switched to viola several years later. She formed her first quartet in high school in Port Washington, meeting the other members in an amateur opera company. As a young adult, she moved in with her sister in Manhattan, where an old boyfriend from high school tracked her down.
 ''He came a-courtin','' she said. ''So, by golly, we got married, and I moved back to Port Washington.'' 
 She worked as a public school teacher and librarian and raised four children, one of whom, a son, is an amateur French horn player. 
 Days after being interviewed, Ms. Harrison fell in her home and broke a hip. Yet she was undaunted and determined to keep playing. ''I couldn't live if I couldn't get back to it,'' she said in a later interview. ''If it takes three weeks or three months or three years, I'll get back to it.''
 Joseph Gluck, a violinist who retired from the New Jersey Symphony two years ago, runs a weekend workshop in Maplewood that has 82 people signed up. Mostly string players, they are generally assigned to groups by Mr. Gluck and rehearse for two hours on Saturdays. A coach counsels them for one of the two hours of the session. At the fourth session, they perform for each other. The cost is $160. The sessions take place in an Ethical Culture Society building.
 Mr. Gluck said he must negotiate around musicians who rate themselves too highly, or too modestly. ''I always try to encourage people to believe that if they are the strongest person in the group, it's a wonderful opportunity to share their knowledge and expertise,'' he said. 
 At the same time, he does not blame people for wanting to play with others at their own level.
 ''If I'm good at something, it's maintaining an atmosphere where people lose their competitive edges and try to remember we're playing music as a joyful experience, and to leave all the stuff that they do in real life away from the building and just come here for the pure joy of the whole thing.''
 Professional musicians sometimes get caught up in the business aspects of performing, Mr. Gluck said. ''But when you surround yourself with people who are doing it with one motivation, who love music, it infects oneself and keeps you optimistic,'' he said.
 The nature of suburban life, including the need to travel by car, often on heavily trafficked roads, inevitably creates differences in the way chamber music is lived in New York City and outside of it. Suburban players say there seems to be less socializing after music sessions, partly because of the time it takes to drive home. But the hours invested in travel also imply a greater commitment to the sessions.
 ''Just to try to get four people together at a common time is quite difficult,'' said Lisa Uckardes, a violinist and public school string teacher from Hicksville, N.Y. ''Honestly, I wouldn't look past Queens for anything because the traffic can really be kind of bad.''
 Groups that may not be compatible will often stay together because it is harder to find a substitute nearby, some players said. At the same time, playing in a house as opposed to an apartment means there is less worry about disturbing the neighbors downstairs, so rehearsals can go longer and later. 
 But living in a house has not necessarily made rehearsing easier for Kevin Root, a cello-playing psychotherapist who lives in Greenwich, Conn. He has 13-year-old identical twin boys whose presence makes scheduling music sessions difficult.
 ''They're asrambunctious as the day is long,'' he said. ''They would never allow me to take up that much space.'' His solution would probably not occur in Manhattan. He is converting his garage into a chamber music room in a $20,000 renovation.
 In many ways, Mr. Root exemplifies the rhythms and customs of the amateur chamber musician. He plays in an amateur group called the American Chamber Orchestra, based in Fairfield County. During a break in a rehearsal a little more than six months ago he turned to a violist nearby and asked if she would be interested in playing string quartets.
 ''She said, 'Definitely,' '' Mr. Root recalled. Whom, they wondered, could they recruit? The violist, who runs an after-school string program, mentioned a violin teacher who had recently graduated from the Eastman School of Music, in Rochester. The violist also brought in a second violinist she had played with years ago. 
 Presto, a string quartet.
 ''We get along quite well,'' Mr. Root said. ''That seems to be at least 50 percent of playing music, the ability to get along. I find it extremely difficult to put together groups, because of personality conflicts.''
 In fact, he said, it has taken him 10 years to form a quartet that stuck. Once, a nascent group fell apart because the first violinist had a ''dictatorial approach'' to playing music. ''No one wanted to play again,'' he said. ''It's personalities that just have to jell.''
 Another quartet lasted only six months. The first violinist was a conservatory-trained pianist who taught himself the violin. ''He sounded like a pianist playing the violin,'' Mr. Root said. ''He was very percussive. I couldn't stand to play with him anymore. I had to remove myself from that group.''
 In another case, Mr. Root said, he joined a quartet with a woman who had recently divorced. ''She decided she wanted me to be her boyfriend,'' he said. ''That fell apart very quickly.''
 Mismatched ability levels can also be a problem. A weaker player can frustrate the stronger players. 
 ''It's very hard to find the proper level and somebody you like and want to be with,'' said Lori C. Marden, a violinist also of Greenwich. Ms. Marden, a committed practicer, generally plays trios with a pianist and cellist on Monday mornings; string quartets from morning until after lunch every other Wednesday or so; and duos with a pianist on Friday mornings.
 ''I'm a fanatic,'' she said. ''It's part of me. There's no way that I could not do this. Music is so much a part of my life. It's always in my head, always.''
 Ms. Marden, who is unmarried, said she sometimes wondered how people dealt with enthusiastic music-making spouses. A pianist she has played with was married to a nonmusician, she said. ''The pianist became much more of a pianist and practiced all the time, and the marriage broke up,'' she said. The pianist later married a horn player, Ms. Marden said, adding that they remain happily together. 
 Some musical groups last longer than many marriages.
 Dr. Ralph Kirmser of Wilton, Conn., an oboist, founded a woodwind quintet 25 years ago with a French horn player, who remains with the group. (The other three members have changed.) ''We're called the Prevailing Winds,'' Dr. Kirmser said.
 The quintet often performs in nursing homes and libraries. ''It makes a difference,'' Dr. Kirmser said. ''It really focuses our rehearsals.''
 The personnel is typical: the horn player is a lawyer in Fairfield; the bassoonist is a dentist in Westport; a Bridgeport lawyer plays flute; the clarinetist teaches music in the Greenwich school system; and Dr. Kirmser is a cardiologist at Norwalk Hospital. 
 Dr. Kirmser recently began playing with another quintet, based in New York City. The commute to rehearsals takes him an hour. ''It adds a certain level of difficulty to get in there, and hence commitment to keep that group going,'' he said.
 Other amateur players eschew performances, preferring to sight-read or rehearse just for themselves.
 ''You have to have more dedication,'' said Michael Ira Asen, an oboist who lives in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Mr. Asen said his wind quintet had given only a few performances since its founding in 1995. 
 A litigator during the week, Mr. Asen turns the weekends over to tennis and the oboe. He practices for an hour on Saturday afternoon. His golden retriever, Mr. Asen asserts, keeps track of wrong notes and bad intonation with a bark. On Sunday morning, ''the guys'' gather at the home of a member of the quintet, which also includes a doctor, an economics professor, a retired lawyer and a marketing executive. 
 ''There is something really extraordinary about playing music,'' Mr. Asen said. ''It elevates you.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STRING TIME -- Kevin Root, right, a cellist, and Polly Jimenez, a violist, during a chamber music session at her home in Stamford, Conn. Allison McCann, a violinist, completed the trio. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
A LITTLE HELP -- Joseph Gluck, center, a former New Jersey Symphony violinist, coaching a quartet that includes Helen Kong on cello and Steve Rasch on violin at the Ethical Culture Society in Maplewood, N.J.
MAKING MUSIC -- A quintet rehearsing in the Larchmont, N.Y., home of its bassoonist, Michael Edelstein, above right, included, from left: Bill Salatino on clarinet
Mark Burns, on flute
Leslie Mantrone, back to camera, on French horn
and Michael Asen, whose oboe is obscured. Two cellists among the many string players who participate in amateur chamber sessions: Kevin Root, far right, in Stamford, Conn.
 and Bill Becker in Maplewood, N.J. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); SUBURBS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CITIES (64%) Music

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



515 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Boo! Halloween Is for the Kids

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Halloween on Heels,'' by Allison Glock (Op-Ed, Oct. 16):
 As a working mother of two young girls, I am taken aback by the glut of crude female fantasy images that saturate our culture. 
 But I am also struck by the parade of female representations that are consistently either hyper-sexy (Wal-Mart's saucy Red Riding Hoods) or totally sexless (Ms. Glock's description of pumpkins and nuns).
Where are images of women that integrate an appreciation of mind and body, of sensuality and sense? 
 It is no wonder that girls grow up internalizing images that are polarized, one-dimensional and ultimately unrealistic. 

Sharon Bober
Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 16, 2006

To the Editor:
 One antidote for avoiding inappropriate Halloween costumes is to create them yourself. 
 I have no talent or training for sewing, but my daughter and I have managed to pull together outfits for her representing one of ''The Twelve Dancing Princesses'' from the Brothers Grimm, Ms. Frizzle from ''The Magic School Bus'' series, and Astrid Lindgren's ''Pippi Longstocking.''
 Our inspiration for the character selections came from her school's ''Books Come Alive'' event, which allows costumes to be worn on Halloween only if they represent characters from a book. Parents are invited to read stories in the classroom and participate in an all-school literary parade. 
 Need I mention that this approach is also economical, and no Halloween hookers need apply.

Raleigh Mayer
New York, Oct. 16, 2006

To the Editor:
 I am a 12-year-old girl who has always been the first in my group of friends to know what I am going to be for Halloween, and this article caught my eye. 
 This morning, I stood outside my Westchester middle school with a group of about five girls. The typical conversation starter this time of year is, ''What are you going to be for Halloween?'' So we were all surprised when everyone replied, ''I don't know.'' 
 As it turned out, we had all visited a costume store or flipped through a catalog this weekend and felt that all the costumes were too revealing. 
 This year, I was planning on being Superwoman, but when I went online to look for a costume, none of the skirts even came close to my knees. I could barely even get to my neighbor's house without freezing in a costume like that. 
 Luckily, I have lots of dress-up clothes I'm going to use to make my costume this year, but what I want to know is, When did ghost and hippie costumes turn into French maids?

Julia Schwarz
New Rochelle, N.Y., Oct. 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); COSTUME SHOPS (78%); CHILDREN (71%); LITERATURE (70%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Halloween; Women; Children and Youth; Costumes, Theatrical

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: Sharon Bober; Raleigh Mayer; Julia Schwarz; Allison Glock

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



516 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Heal Us as We Grow Old?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Geriatrics Lags in an Age of High-Tech Medicine'' (front page, Oct. 18):
 The population is aging, and there will never be enough geriatricians to provide care to even the frailest boomers. Training nongeriatricians in geriatric care is vital.
But we must also train geriatricians of the future to be leaders of health care systems. In leadership roles, geriatricians can bring geriatric principles of care to bear on large populations of older people. 
 Failure to ''geriatricize'' our health care system will condemn older Americans to care organized in a manner incompatible with their needs, and will bankrupt the nation.

Bruce Leff, M.D.
Baltimore, Oct. 18, 2006

The writer is an associate professor, Division of Geriatric Medicine, at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.

To the Editor:
 Your excellent article about the growing demand for geriatricians highlights the adverse financial incentives for physicians considering this challenging specialty.
 Changing Medicare's fee structure is an obvious and simple solution. But when Medicare spending comprises 14 percent of the federal budget, fears of escalating costs (and taxes) sabotage rational discussion. Underlying these fears are common assumptions or myths about aging and economics.
 We must both broaden and clarify our policy discussions concerning economic productivity in our aging society. A serious examination of the evidence leads to the provocative yet undeniable conclusion that the economic benefits of high-quality geriatric care will outweigh its costs.

Marianne C. Fahs
New York, Oct. 18, 2006

The writer is a professor of urban public health at Hunter College and acting executive director of the Brookdale Center on Aging.

To the Editor:
 Ask experienced geriatric social workers, and they will confirm the points made in your article.
 We spend a great deal of time second-guessing doctors' diagnoses and care plans that recommend surgery and other invasive ''high tech'' procedures. We go to seminars and conferences to share best practices for our elderly clients, knowing that we may have to intervene on behalf of the family members, or, in many cases, the client, who is all alone.
 We search for geriatricians like Dr. Rosanne Leipzig at Mount Sinai, and feel lucky to have found a few. We team up with nurse practitioners who treat the patients holistically and with respect. This takes time, patience and persistence, along with experience and skill.
 We joke around that while we ''dropped out of medical school,'' we're following the doctors' creed of ''first, do no harm.''

Beth Zeidel
Brooklyn, Oct. 19, 2006

To the Editor:
 Medical students' and residents' time, as well as the funds of training programs, are limited. Additional geriatrics training has to be taken from someplace else, and I suspect that it will be pediatrics.
 In my medical school we were inundated with geriatric instruction that seemed endless because it was nothing more than a duplication of material we'd been taught in internal medicine. To the contrary, we received the minimum amount of pediatrics instruction necessary to maintain our accreditation.
 I am not aware, nor did you present any evidence, that the medical care of the elderly is substandard. In fact, every trend I'm aware of indicates that people in this country are having longer functional lives than at any time in history and that the elderly are subjected to too many expensive procedures. 
 On the contrary, there is much evidence that children hospitalized in dedicated children's hospitals have less morbidity and shorter hospitalizations than those hospitalized in community hospitals. 
 This may be because the pediatric training of specialists not trained by a pediatric fellowship -- that is, surgeons, radiologists and emergency-room physicians -- is occasionally inadequate. 
 Unfortunately, millions of American children do not have access to children's hospitals.
 Please, no more wailing about the state of geriatric medicine in this country. The elderly receive excellent medical care. Children's health care desperately requires more resources and better-trained practitioners.

Jonathan D. Reich, M.D.
Lakeland, Fla., Oct. 18, 2006

The writer is a fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics.

To the Editor:
 The concept that one field of medicine is of more value than another and that hence some doctors deserve to be paid more than others is absurd and is just one more symptom of our ailing medical care system.
 Neurosurgery is no more difficult than geriatrics; cardiology is not more beneficial than pediatrics. If we continue to reimburse physicians as if one specialty deserves more than another, we will continue to shunt physicians into fields of greatest financial remuneration and we will attract into medicine people who would rather be technicians than caregivers. 
 While some physicians will benefit, patients certainly will not. 

Mark Miller, M.D.
Seattle, Oct. 18, 2006

The writer practices emergency medicine.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Hope Larson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GERIATRICS (96%); AGING (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (88%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); BEST PRACTICES (76%); FAMILY (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CHILDREN (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PEDIATRICS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Medicine and Health; Aged; Children and Youth; Doctors; Wages and Salaries; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Bruce (Dr) Leff; Marianne C (Prof) Fahs; Beth Zeidel; Jonathan D (Dr) Reich; Mark (Dr) Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



517 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Tension, Desperation: The China-North Korean Border 

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
NORTH KOREA'S porous 880-mile border with China is its lifeline to the outside world. About 39 percent of its trade last year was with China, which, critically, supplies it with 80 to 90 percent of its oil. Trafficking in money transfers and human beings also flourishes. 
 By contrast, North Korea's border with Russia is 11 miles and heavily guarded; the 150-mile-long demilitarized zone with South Korea has hundreds of thousands of soldiers on each side. Until now, the North's ships have regularly visited Japan, from which relatives sent cash and goods, but North Korea's nuclear test is expected to end that trade.
For China, the bottom line is to erect the right number of fences, as it did along the border city of Dandong recently. Build too few and you invite instability in China. Build too many and North Korea collapses.
 A collapse is clearly something Beijing doesn't want, and why it is lukewarm toward harsh sanctions. A collapse might send more North Koreans into China than the 100,000 to 300,000 estimated to have flooded the border during the North's great famine in the mid- to late-1990's. (Paradoxically, the famine also opened trade links when local North Korean groups formed to barter raw materials for Chinese grain.) 
 The end of the North Korean state could also bring reunification of the Korean Peninsula under America's ally South Korea, another development Beijing does not want. Also, the border itself could be put into question. South Korea has, in recent years, challenged China over the legacy of Koguryo, an ancient Korean kingdom whose rule extended into present-day China. The region is home to hundreds of thousands of ethnic Korean-Chinese, who face discrimination in China and might be sympathetic toward a reunified Korea making territorial claims.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Danfung Dennis/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by China Daily, via Reuters)
(Photo by Stephen Shaver/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Ng Han Guan/Associated Press)Chart/Map:The View from ProsperityBinoculars in the Chinese city of Tumen, left, offer close-up views beyond the Tumen River. The city has a new riverfront promenade lined with restaurants whose patrons sip beer and eat barbecued meats as they gaze across the border. ''The difference in the standard of living is astonishing,'' said Marcus Noland of the Institute for International Economics, who visited the area this year. North Koreans, aware they are on view, ''must feel like zoo animals,'' he said.The Refugee CorridorDuring the 1990's famine, most refugees fled over the shallow and narrow Tumen River. It is easily crossed in spots on foot or by swimming. Most recent refugees also escaped here.The Short Russian FrontierRussia has tapped North Korean labor for its timber industry, but it has no desire to harbor refugees. Its 11-mile border is better patrolled than China's
there is no ethnic Korean community in which to hide, as there is in China. Still, rising anti-American feeling in Russia has created a growing sympathy for North Korea.A Border Gets More PorousTrade across the border increased after North Korean economic reforms in 2002. In recent months, it has tapered off -- perhaps an indication of worsening conditions in North Korea, or of Chinese efforts to exert pressure. After the nuclear test, China stepped up border checks. In Dandong, above, a customs agent inspects a truck headed for North Korea.In Dandong, the border is heavily policed and a security fence has been under construction.North Korea has tried to set up three special economic zones that allow freer enterprise. (Noted with this symbol: ) Only the Kaesong zone near South Korea is functioning. Rason, in the east, is moribund
a plan for Sinuiju failed.Long, desolate stretches of the border are not patrolled at all.The Yalu River is wide, swift and deep, not easily crossed, as the northern Tumen is.Mount Paektu is the source of the two border rivers. It is also, according to official accounts, the birthplace of Kim Jong-il, the North Korean dictator.A 20-mile stretch of the border is dry, remote and mountainous, barely patrolled.MILITARY REVOLT -- The best documented challenge to the government occurred here in 1995, when famine-starved soldiers began a march toward the capital, Pyongyang. The revolt was quelled and the unit disbanded.It is virtually impossible to escape from the North across the demilitarized zone, which is heavily stocked with landmines. Refugees must head for China.Anxiety Nearby In China's Rust BeltNortheast China, which borders North Korea, was industrialized by Japan, its occupier, in the 1930's. It remained the center of Chinese industry -- steel, autos, mining -- in the 1950's and 60's, but today its factories are obsolete. It is considered a backward frontier region, notorious for mining accidents and pollution, by the more prosperous south. Workers feel insecure as factories are sold off
there has been unrest.Koreans In ChinaThere are already an estimated two million ethnic Koreans in the three northeastern provinces highlighted on the map at left. Most are in Jilin, with its Korean-majority Yanbian border district, where residents are allowed to maintain their own language and ethnic identity. There may be up to 300,000 North Korean refugees in China as well.Hunger in the North Korean Rust BeltThe entire nation is economically depressed, but the three northeast provinces are the most destitute. (Yangang and North and South Hamgyong, outlined with a heavy border: ) Major cities in the region were industrialized by the Japanese
their factories are decrepit and failing. (Cities noted with this symbol: )This is also where the worst hunger of the famine years occurred and where most refugees come from, according to the U.N. and surveys of refugees. Millions are still destitute
if the regime collapsed, many would head north to China.Bridges of Commerce and TourismChinese trucks bound for an iron ore mine, above, cross the shallow Tumen River at Nanping. North Korea is on the left. Below, Chinese tourists look at the Yalu River Broken Bridge, bombed by the United States during the Korean War, at Dandong, China, the border's southern end.(Bill Marsh, Erin Aigner and Baden Copeland/The New York Times)Map of North Korea and China border highlighting areas mentioned above.(Sources by Marcus Noland, Institute for International Economics
Charles K. Armstrong, Director of Center for Korean Research, Columbia University
 James R. Lilley, former U.S. ambassador China and South Korea)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FAMINE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%) Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); LIAONING, CHINA (90%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); JILIN, CHINA (58%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%) North Korea; China

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



518 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; A Looking Glass; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Marie Antoinette, Citoyenne

BYLINE: By ERIC KONIGSBERG

 BODY:
SHE may never have said the words that got her in Bartlett's -- ''Let them eat cake'' -- but she might as well have. Nevertheless, the image of Marie Antoinette -- dauphine, villain, tea-party thrower in shepherdess garb -- is in the midst of an extreme rehab.
 What with Sofia Coppola's movie, two sympathetic books (''Queen of Fashion,'' a biography by Caroline Weber, and ''Abundance,'' a work of historical fiction by Sena Jeter Naslund); and a PBS documentary, we're having a Marie Antoinette moment. And she doesn't even have a publicist. 
The question, then, might be less a matter of what to make of Marie Antoinette, than of why the makeover, and why now? Of all the victimizers in history, why are we suddenly flooded with these new narratives that show us Marie Antoinette -- vain, selfish, solipsistic and venal -- as a victim?
 The simplest answer may be that most Americans don't have even the flimsiest grasp of who she was.
 ''Never underestimate our historical illiteracy,'' says the historian Ron Chernow, whose biography of Alexander Hamilton explored the Founding Fathers' disagreements over the excesses of the French Revolution. ''Unburdened by an existing context through which to view her life, it becomes much easier to see her simply as a captive of the monarchy and a captive of her own celebrity.''
 Even in the packaging, the current depictions paint Marie Antoinette -- the most significant target of a most significant populist revolt -- as herself a revolutionary. 
 ''Her required wardrobe included 12-foot wide hoopskirts,'' reads the jacket copy of Ms. Weber's book. ''But when she became queen, Marie Antoinette rebelled, seeking to establish her own royal style as a way to seduce the public (and distract attention from her failure to conceive).'' 
 The cover flap of ''Abundance'' describes her as ''a heroine of inspiring stature, one whose nobility arises not from the circumstance of her birth but from her courageous spirit.'' And the lettering on the advertisements for Ms. Coppola's movie -- on crudely cut hot-pink banners -- recall the cover of the Sex Pistols' album ''Never Mind the Bollocks.'' (God save the Queen, anyone?)
 Americans' relationship to rebellion, in any case, is more complicated than you might think. ''It was thought of as an attractive concept through much of the 20th century,'' Mr. Chernow says. ''But at the moment, we're living in the aftermath of many failed revolutions -- Communism and Fascism come to mind -- and with the conspicuous exception of the jihadists, people are more attuned to the excesses of revolution.''
 Robert H. Frank, the Cornell economist whose books include ''Luxury Fever: Why Money Fails to Satisfy in an Era of Excess,'' says that although the gap between the rich and the rest of us has only widened over the last 35 or 40 years, ''Americans aren't known for great class resentment toward the wealthy.
 ''It's not that the extra spending of the rich hasn't caused problems for the middle class -- it has, particularly in the housing market,'' Professor Frank says. 
 But to be angry about that, Professor Frank says, is too complicated. ''People in the U.S. don't look at what the people at the top have and say, 'That's making life more difficult for me.' They watch and say, 'That'll be me someday. So, I'd better vote to abolish the estate tax, because you never know what the future may bring.' ''
 In other words, there are many Americans who see themselves -- accurately or not -- in Marie Antoinette (just as there are people who spend their Sundays at open houses for $10 million dollar co-ops on Fifth Avenue, even though they're raising a family in a cramped two-bedroom where the oven doubles as a china closet).
 On another level -- one of personal experience, rather than socioeconomic station -- we're an entire nation of Marie Antoinettes. 
 ''I meet these people all the time: binge consumers, intentionally oblivious young people who see amassing a great shoe collection as their purpose in life,'' says Richard Florida, the author of the books ''The Rise of the Creative Class'' and ''The Flight of the Creative Class.''
 ''As our whole society is fundamentally challenged -- war, terrorism, globalism -- there is a large segment whose measured response has been self-expression through shopping and partying,'' he says. ''They're constructing their own fantasy world, a bubble to seal themselves off from the trauma of our times.''
 Even in France, the revisionism has taken hold. It was only last May that Antonia Fraser's 2001 biography, ''Mary Antoinette: The Journey'' (on which Ms. Coppola's film is based), was finally translated into French and published by a French house.
 ''And when it finally happened, they refused to put the subtitle,'' Ms. Fraser says. ''I was interested in the journey, her development. The French seemed not to want to acknowledge that.''
 On the other hand, and despite the fact that the movie was booed when it made its debut at Cannes, the American novelist Diane Johnson says over the phone from Paris, where she is currently residing, that the French also have their ''Marie Antoinette mania.'' 
 She cites ''My Name Was Marie Antoinette,'' a play in Paris, at the end of which audience members were asked to vote on the Queen's ultimate fate. ''The audience generally votes to let her live,'' she says. Today, she says, ''in the stores, you see a lot fashion that's been very much influenced by her new popularity.'' 
 This has taken the form of taffeta gowns by Alexander McQueen, new shoes by Manolo Blahnik and dresses by John Galliano for Dior Couture. 
 ''I guess you could call that tie-in merchandise,'' Ms. Johnson says. ''If it were a Disney film, of course, they'd have made plastic figures.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Makeover -- Depictions of the queen takes her out of her shoes and puts her in ours. (Photo by Leigh Johnson/Columbia Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); HISTORY (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%) History; United States International Relations

PERSON: Eric Konigsberg; Marie Antoinette (1755-93)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%) France

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



519 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: On the Block

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BLEYER

 BODY:
NOT since the Dodgers departed in 1957 has there been a slugfest in Brooklyn like the one over Atlantic Yards. 
 The plan is colossal -- 16 high-rise buildings and an 18,000-seat basketball arena on 22 acres near the borough's busy downtown -- and fans and opponents have matched its magnitude with their own statistics. The developer, Forest City Ratner, which is also the development partner of The New York Times Company for its new headquarters in Midtown, says that the $4.2 billion project will bring 4,000 permanent jobs, billions of dollars in tax revenue and more than 6,000 units of housing. Opponents counter that the plan will corral $2 billion in public money and tax breaks, crowd 15,000 new residents into the area and clog local streets with thousands more cars.
Ever since the idea was floated in 2003, the sides have also framed their appeals broadly, citing big-picture concerns about urban policy and socioeconomic justice. 
 Less noticed amid the large numbers and loud clamor is the sound of the street: the skepticism and dread, or hope and excitement, of people who live and work near Atlantic Yards. 
 But that sound is there, on the neighborhood's sidewalks and stoops, in its stores and coffee shops, in its kitchens and parlors. There is the Nets fan dreaming of walking to home games. The mother worried about steering her stroller across an even busier Flatbush Avenue. The teacher hoping that one apartment in the tall towers has her name on it. And the gardener fretting over the shade thrown by those same towers. JENNIFER BLEYER

THE GARDENER

Jon Crow
Coordinator, Brooklyn Bear's Community Garden
 Back in 1982, the East Pacific Street Block Association worked to create the garden. There was a lot of prostitution, drug dealing, vagrancy in the area. Broken glass, used condoms, crack vials. People got together and little by little tried doing something nice.
 Because we were surrounded by nothing, there was really nothing we couldn't grow. We were basking in sunshine. The original garden was lots of vegetables, trees, shrubs and flowers. And because we were such a diverse population of gardeners, there were plants that were more typical of Cuba or Japan or Greece. Now we have about 21 little vegetable boxes and planting areas. We have a goldfish pond and a waterfall.
 Our fear is a few things. One is shade. The project would take away our sunshine until about noon every day. So from enjoying 12 or more hours of full sun, we're going to be down to 6 or 8. And in Los Angeles, one of Frank Gehry's buildings raised the ground temperature of the surrounding area to over 125 degrees because of the material and the glare. 
 We don't know what kind of environment we'll be in that people would want to garden. Would you want to do a vegetable garden next to Madison Square Garden?

THE APARTMENT SEEKER

Mildred Coleman
Teacher, Crown Heights
 My family is originally from South Carolina, but we migrated to New York in the 50's. We landed in Brooklyn, and this is where we stayed. I grew up in Williamsburg, and then I moved to Crown Heights. I teach third grade between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., and I'm a day-care worker from 3 to 6.
 When they came up with this Atlantic thing, I said, this is great. This is a place where I could live in peace. Crown Heights is fine, but it's not comfortable like what I need. I've heard they're supposed to build this complex that gives you a laundry room, places to exercise, places to shop. 
 I'm hoping I'm a candidate. After being a teacher for 22 years, that's what I need. I need comfort. I don't have it where I'm living. 
 I remember years ago when I was a little girl, Downtown Brooklyn had Loehmann's and all those nice places, and you had to dress up to go to Junior's. 
 If that's what Atlantic Yards is going to do, if it's going to bring back a certain culture and standard we had years ago, I think that's great.

THE RETIREE

Mildred Davis
Resident, Fort Greene
 In 1942, I was 18, going on 19. My husband came from Washington to go to school for photography. In Washington, we lived in neighborhoods of two-story private homes. I didn't like Manhattan. I was disoriented with all the skyscrapers and the tall buildings. So we moved to Brooklyn. I felt it was a better place for my kids, and a warmer community than I had found in Manhattan.
 Sixty years ago there was a bill passed by two politicians, Mitchell and Lama, so working people could afford good housing. What's happening now is developers are going to take over, and people like me on a fixed income will be pushed out. The Mitchell-Lama building I'm living in will soon be developed into something higher priced. 
 I would like to stay in the community, but unfortunately I'm not eligible for senior citizen housing. That means I pay fair market. 
 This is a neighborhood I loved. I just don't know what the future holds for me and people like me, who can't afford the high prices of the high-rises.

THE BASKETBALL FAN

Kelly Burwell
Resident, Crown Heights
 I was born in Brooklyn Jewish Hospital in Prospect Heights 36 years ago, and they brought me straight to Lincoln Place in Crown Heights. I've been there ever since. I have my own business doing garbage removal and demolition.
 I'm looking forward to Brooklyn having a professional basketball team. The Knicks broke my heart so many times. I left them when Patrick Ewing was still playing and went over the water to New Jersey. I go as often as I can. Every time I get free time from work and the Nets have a home game, I go to the Continental Arena. I have five nephews, and they're all Nets fans. When I get Nets tickets, I take my nephews and we chant, ''Brooklyn Nets! Brooklyn Nets!'' 
 It'll be great the year they first play as the Brooklyn Nets. I believe they're going to win the championship because of all the hype. We could walk right to the Atlantic Yards from our house and watch a basketball game. That's a beautiful thing. The fans, we're going to be ready for them.

THE INVESTOR

Christopher Morris
Real estate developer
 I want to be ahead of the game, so I want to be where all the action is. I have five properties in Brooklyn close to the stadium, which I bought for a total of $15 million. I bought two properties that are three blocks from the Atlantic Yards for about $4 million. One I'm turning into condominiums, 24 condos. I wouldn't have bought that property if it weren't for the Atlantic Yards. Mr. Ratner has brought a whole change to this neighborhood. 
 Is it good? Yeah, it's good for businesses. The smallest guy on the block selling something is going to sell more. All real estate investors are going to sell more. Everybody's property is going to go up in the next 10 years. Property in the range of a million will become $2 million, maybe $4 million. 

THE MOTHER

Sarah Caylor
Resident, Fort Greene
 We used to live on the Upper West Side in a big complex where we didn't know anyone. The first time we came to Fort Greene, we totally fell in love with the neighborhood. Here, we know everyone who lives in our building. We run into people when we walk down the street. 
 Parents with young children seem to come out of the woodwork here. My child is Felix. He's 8 1/2 months old. We go to Fort Greene Park pretty much every day, and I take him on the swings or hang out on a blanket. I've seen renderings where the skyscrapers would cast shadows over a third of the park, covering the entire playground, for half of the day. I can't imagine that the grass would be as green or it would be as nice a place to hang out. 
 Sometimes we cross Atlantic at South Portland and walk a few blocks to Fifth Avenue to run errands. There are a lot of cute little kids' shops there. When I'm crossing now, it's O.K., but I can imagine it being a lot worse -- like some intersections I try to avoid like the plague. If there's more traffic in the area, it's just more dangerous. It's not the type of situation I imagined raising a child in.

THE HOMEMAKER

Audrey Doyle
Resident, Fort Greene
 We've lived here for 21 years, about five blocks from the rail yards. I'm a homemaker, and my husband works in computers. When we first moved in, a lot of the area was run-down, and crime was very high. Over the years, things have changed a lot. 
 I feel mostly positive about the changes. Fort Greene still has a varied population. People in public housing and people who own $2 million brownstones live side by side. I absolutely like that mix. I have friends and acquaintances in the neighborhood who are white from the Midwest, and some who immigrated from Argentina or India, and quite a few Caribbean neighbors. 
 There's a Chinese family on the street and a few doors down there's a Japanese family. There are a lot of working-class people who have owned the houses they live in for a long time, mostly African-American. And there's a lot of street life, people walking around or sitting on stoops or kids playing outside.
 If there's a huge development plunked down in the middle of our neighborhood, the tone of the whole area will gradually change. People who can afford very high housing prices have to be well off, and I would suspect that most of those new people would be white. I'm fearful of the neighborhood changing so much that we wouldn't want to live here.

THE MERCHANT

Ludlow Beckett
Owner of Yu Interiors, Fort Greene
 I've been open since December 1999. I sell home accessories with a lean toward 50's and 60's vintage modern. Our customers are mostly from the neighborhood, but we get a lot from Park Slope, Carroll Gardens, all the brownstone neighborhoods. A lot of them come by car. My concern is, if they can't park, will they stay? 
 It's not just that I work here, but I live here also, and I have to drive around sometimes two or three times just to find parking. We've seen a few larger buildings go up in the area, and parking has become an issue. It can only get worse.

THE BUSINESS HOPEFUL

Brian Saunders
Resident, Crown Heights
 I live and grew up in Crown Heights. My father came to the United States from the Caribbean in the early 70's. He started off having a lounge, and I think it's in my blood. Basically, I've managed bars and restaurants in Carroll Gardens and the Village. 
 What I've been hearing is they'll help individuals who want to open small businesses in the footprint of the project, whether by reducing the rent or helping you with a business plan. I heard they want it to be like mom-and-pop places.
 I'd like to have a little lounge in the community, something nice and upscale with a ''Cheers'' atmosphere. I want a place where people from those condos can come down and relax. Not a big club blaring music. Something for 50 or 75 people at most.
 That's my goal. Financing and capital play a big role in opening up something, and I don't have the capital to jump-start it. If I can get in with help in terms of rent and the development of my dream, I'm with it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: STREET-CORNER VIEW -- Nine neighbors, from a merchant to a mother to a Nets fan, all see Brooklyn's Atlantic Yards plan through lenses colored by their own lives. (Photographs by Josh Haner/The New York Times)(pgs. 1,8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); GARDENING (89%); BASKETBALL (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%) Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn); Area Planning and Renewal; Basketball; Stadiums and Arenas 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Forest City Ratner; New York Nets

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (72%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (50%) Jennifer Bleyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%) New York City; Brooklyn (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



520 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: PELHAM PARKWAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: For a Wobbly Walk, A Dressing Down

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BLEYER

 BODY:
ON Tuesday morning, Albert DeSimone once again had to fix the bricks. 
 In front of a building where he works as a maintenance man on a bustling shopping strip on White Plains Road south of Pelham Parkway, he supervised two other workers who pulled loose red bricks from the sidewalk. They cleaned the bricks, swabbed them with quick-setting concrete and inserted them back into their places. 
''We have to do this so nobody trips,'' Mr. DeSimone, a bearish man who wore black suspenders over a plaid shirt, said with a shrug as he explained that fixing the bricks was a regular part of his job.
 But brick sidewalk repair will not be among his responsibilities for long. This month, contractors began removing the bricks that adorn this part of White Plains Road, a four-block stretch of jewelry shops, florists, pharmacies and banks bisected overhead by the elevated tracks of the No. 2 subway. 
 The bricks are being replaced with concrete at a cost of $160,000, in a project overseen by the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 The bricks were installed in the early 1980's by a local development corporation, since disbanded, that wanted to beautify a retail strip that had cooled slightly after a period of midcentury glamour. 
 ''There was a time after World War II when this area was chic,'' said Larry Prospect, director of the White Plains Road Business Improvement District. ''We had the most expensive stores. People came from all over the city to shop here.''
 The bricks were attractive but problematic. Weather and wear caused them to loosen and crumble. Pedestrians often tripped on them, sending the fear of lawsuits rippling among landlords. 
 ''They added an upscale ambience, but people were always stumbling on them,'' Mr. Prospect said. ''If the bricks came loose, we'd repair them. But it's not our responsibility.''
 For merchants on White Plains Road, of whom a handful of the oldest remain, bidding farewell to the brick sidewalks was easy. 
 ''I once had to pay for new eyeglasses for someone who fell on the bricks,'' said Sandi Simon, the owner of Frishman's, a women's clothing store opened in 1932 by her father, Sol Frischman, who died last week at age 105. 
 Thankfully, Ms. Simon added, ''we know the people at the optical store across the street.'' JENNIFER BLEYER


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pretty but perilous, these bricks were removed and replaced with concrete. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAILERS (89%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (77%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (68%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (68%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Brick and Tile; Sidewalks

ORGANIZATION: Economic Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: Jennifer Bleyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



521 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: On Fordham Road, Signs of the Times

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Uneasy Street'' (Oct. 15):
 Bill the Greek certainly has his finger on the pulse of the local economics around Fordham Road, especially when he mentioned ''Then rents went up'' in the 1990's. 
The cost of housing is draining more and more from the quality of life of low- and moderate-income working people. It continues to worsen as rent regulations are loosened and ignored. 
 Bill Kourdis and other merchants will see better times when the gap between what people earn and the cost of renting an apartment is narrowed.

John M. Reilly
Exec. Dir., Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation
Fordham, the Bronx

To the Editor:
 I really enjoyed reading your report on Fordham Road. The department store Super Mundo is indeed one of the best bargain places in the region. But it is not ''just'' an abandoned synagogue. 
 It used to be the Jacob Schiff Jewish Center, a kind of Jewish community center that opened in 1917. The center was named after the German-born banker and philanthropist Jacob Henry Schiff (1847-1920), who was, among other things, one of the founding fathers of the Jewish Theological Seminary and the Hebrew Union College. 
 Schiff was a kind of Edgar Bronfman of his time, and the Jacob Schiff Center one of the most prominent Jewish buildings along the Grand Concourse -- a place that also contained a Hebrew school and numerous other Jewish facilities. 
 The area around Fordham Road and the Grand Concourse is therefore not only worth exploring for a bargain hunt, but also a treasure hunt, searching for Jewish traces. 

Julian Voloj
Sunnyside, Queens

The writer is founder of JWalks, a Jewish heritage walking-tour group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RENT CONTROL (77%); RETAILERS (75%); WRITERS (73%); RELIGION (67%) Retail Stores and Trade

PERSON: John M Reilly; Julian Voloj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Bronx (NYC); New York City; Fordham Road (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



522 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Mastic Weighs Pros and Cons of Traffic Circles

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

DATELINE: MASTIC 

 BODY:
ROUNDABOUTS, common in Europe and increasingly popular among transportation planners in parts of the metropolitan region, are running into trouble in Mastic.
 A Suffolk County road improvement and downtown renewal plan that is under consideration calls for building three of the traffic-calming circles along a one-mile stretch of Montauk Highway in downtown Mastic. 
 That section of the road, a notorious bottleneck, has one lane in each direction, a center turning lane and a roadside lined by small businesses, fast-food franchises and strip malls.
 Roundabout proponents, including the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, Vision Long Island and some local residents, say the circles will slow but not impede traffic, make road crossings safer for pedestrians and be a first step toward a more inviting downtown. 
 ''Roundabouts create more of a community rather than cars speeding through town,'' said Kate Slevin, the associate director of Tri-State, a nonprofit transportation planning group based in New York. 
 Volunteer fire departments and ambulance companies in Mastic and neighboring areas take a different view. They say the roundabouts are a bad idea because they would delay emergency vehicles. 
 ''To make fire trucks and ambulances responding to emergencies go around circles is just asinine,'' said Fred Wesemann, a fire and ambulance volunteer and business owner in Mastic.
 Mr. Wesemann said emergency vehicles stuck in traffic would have to make up time by going over the curb onto the raised center median that would replace the center turn lane. He said they would have to go back onto the road to negotiate each of the roundabouts. ''Try that while you're putting an IV in a patient,'' he said. 
 Currently, emergency vehicles can use the center turning lane, which is at grade level. 
 Emergency volunteers support an alternative plan, also under consideration, that would synchronize traffic signals but include no roundabouts, and it would allow emergency vehicles traveling in the center turn lane to change lights to green as they approached them.
 Public hearings on the roundabouts have been held, and now the county's Department of Public Works will decide which plan to recommend to the Suffolk Legislature. But it will probably be weeks before a decision is made, officials said.
 ''Both plans are acceptable from a capacity and safety standpoint,'' said William Hillman, the chief engineer for public works, noting that the median curbs were designed so that vehicles could mount them. ''We wouldn't propose something that doesn't work.'' 
 County Executive Steve Levy set aside $16 million for the project in Suffolk's capital budget for 2007 through 2009. That amount includes $12 million in federal money.
 The entire project covers 1.7 miles from the Montauk Highway intersection with William Floyd Parkway eastward. It would add an extra lane in both directions from William Floyd a short distance to Garden Place.
 County Legislator Kate M. Browning, a Working Families Party member whose district includes Mastic, said the views of emergency volunteers should weigh heavily. 
 ''I grew up in Northern Ireland and I'm familiar with roundabouts,'' said Mrs. Browning, a native of Belfast. ''They are good, but what works there maybe doesn't work here.'' 
 The State Department of Transportation recommends that roundabouts be considered a primary tool for improving intersections. They have been built recently in Great Neck Plaza, Huntington and Westhampton Beach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (91%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); FRANCHISING (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (72%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); BUDGETS (62%); FAST FOOD (56%); RETAILERS (55%) Roads and Traffic; Ambulances; Fires and Firefighters; Traffic Signals and Signs

PERSON: John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mastic (NY); Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



523 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: A Storyteller With an Eye for History 

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
As an artist, Jacob Lawrence (1917-2000) was interested primarily in storytelling. His most famous work is ''The Migration of the Negro'' (1940-41), a series of paintings depicting the Northern movement of African-Americans during and after World War I. Painted in a Social Realist-inspired style, with sharp-edged, flattened shapes and forms, it is a powerful allegory of the social and economic plight of African-Americans in the United States.
 Three series of Lawrence's prints fill adjoining galleries at the Heckscher Museum of Art. These are also about storytelling, though with one exception they tend to be more decorative than his earlier work and less inclined toward direct social comment. Lawrence mellowed a bit in his later years, mining personal interests and some old favorite themes as subjects. 
Born in Atlantic City in 1917, Lawrence grew up in Harlem, studying art in the 1930's at the Harlem Community Art Center and other schools. He began to make naive-looking figurative paintings relating to Harlem and the daily lives of its people, meeting with swift success. In 1941, Lawrence became the first African-American artist to be represented in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art, where he was honored with a solo exhibition in 1944. He was one of the first black Americans to win wide recognition in the art world.
 Lawrence's best works never varnish raw facts; instead, he presents us with human suffering in what seems like a supremely indifferent world, then invites us to empathize with the victims. So it is with ''Hiroshima,'' a provocative series of prints he made in 1983 based on the 1946 account by the writer John Hersey of the aftermath of the dropping of the atomic bomb.
 The prints depict everyday scenes -- women at the market, children in a playground -- though the figures are faceless. Look closer and you can see that they are writhing in agony, flesh dripping off their bones. You can feel mentally bruised looking at these prints.
 ''Toussaint L'Ouverture'' (1986-1999), the largest series here, is a reworking of some paintings from the late 1930's based on the life of Toussaint L'Ouverture, a hero of the Haitian slave uprising of the late 18th century, which led to the country's independence from France. In 1801, Toussaint also invaded Spanish-controlled Santo Domingo on the other side of the island and freed slaves there. Soon afterward Haiti became the first independent republic to be run by people of African descent. 
 All the prints are serigraph, or silkscreen, which seems the perfect medium for this subject matter. Used for T-shirts and posters, it emphasizes flat, bold, bright and graphic images. 
 The tone of ''Toussaint L'Ouverture'' is elegiac, the artist zeroing in on specific moments in the life of the revolutionary leader, from his early years as a slave, to his role in the overthrow of the French government in Haiti, to his death two years later. You don't need to know the story to follow the narrative, for the prints offer a realistic portrayal of these volatile events, arranged in more or less chronological order. 
 It is the little details that enchant, like the artist's attention to the clothing and jewelry worn by ordinary people animating the battle scenes, or the wonderful verdant foliage conjured with little more than a few blocky, angular lines. These prints have a muscular lyricism, most apparent perhaps in a half-length portrait of Toussaint dressed as a general. He comes across as a determined hulk of a man. 
 The final series, ''Genesis'' (1989-90), draws on the artist's experiences of religion; he was baptized in the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem and recalled hearing passionate sermons there about the Creation. Lawrence depicts those sermons in this series, showing an animated minister and his congregation. Perhaps it was there at church that Lawrence's love of storytelling began.

''Jacob Lawrence: Three Series of Prints,'' Heckscher Museum of Art, 2 Prime Avenue, Huntington, through Nov. 5. Information: (631) 351-3250 or www.heckscher.org.


GRAPHIC: Photos: NARRATIVES -- Left, ''Toussaint L'Ouverture'' (1986), and far left, ''Boy With Kite'' (1983, from the Hiroshima series), two prints from an exhibition of Jacob Lawrence's work. Center, a visitor views ''The Capture'' (1987). (Photos by Bottom left and above center, photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); SLAVERY (69%); YOUTH MARKET (62%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Heckscher Museum of Art (Huntington, NY)

PERSON: Benjamin Genocchio; Jacob (1917-2000) Lawrence

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (92%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



524 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Plug-In Hybrid Cars, For Long Island's Future

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Morris's excellent article about local initiative in fostering plug-in hybrid vehicles (''Turn On the Electric Road,'' Op-Ed, Oct. 8) makes good sense, but there are three aspects of it that must be borne in mind. 
 First, we should not allow the ''perfect to become the enemy of the good.'' The last thing we ought to do is wait around for the plug-ins to arrive. 
 The most important single step we can take to cope with the energy problems facing us is to improve the efficiency of our transportation sector. We can do this right now by replacing our cars, when their time has come, with already available fuel efficient or hybrid vehicles. They are just as comfortable as the gas burners and benefit the natural environment.
 Second, plug-in hybrids are sensible because of what they plug into. In most of the United States, regions get their electricity from hydroelectricity or power plants burning coal or nuclear. The power plants on Long Island, New York City and most of downstate New York burn either oil or gas. 
 Plug-ins still make some sense here because we get some of our power from other places, generated by hydroelectricity, coal and nuclear. But new power plants using indigenous fuels and renewables are being walled off from us by legislative actions, making it more difficult to build transmission lines to the places in the western part of the state where those plants could be built and would be welcomed.
 Finally, plug-ins would be a really good thing for the economics of electric supply. If people plugged in at night, it would help spread the costs of owning all the major facilities needed to supply electricity, tending to lower electric costs for all of us.

Ira L. Freilicher
East Hills

The writer is an energy lawyer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%) Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles

PERSON: Ira L Freilicher; David Morris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



525 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2048 words

HEADLINE: For Music's Sake

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
IT can wreck a marriage, reconfigure a home, lead to late-night sorties and seductive soirees -- and yet hundreds of suburbanites nurture an obsession with a seemingly genteel practice: playing chamber music. 
 Behind the placid lawns and condominium walls of New York's suburbs, these amateur musicians cluster around music stands in living rooms and dens after connecting at seminars and on street corners, through e-mail messages, word-of-mouth and cold calls. Many, after studying since childhood, had aspired to performing careers and even attended conservatory, but went instead into law or medicine or accounting or teaching. The yen to play, though, never left, so they live in a parallel musical world of amateur orchestras, ad hoc music sessions and long-established groups that adopt the familiar patterns of married couples (or more often, quartets or quintets).
''It's a great labor of love,'' said William Becker, 75, of West Orange, N.J. ''I lose myself in it.''
 Mr. Becker said that in the early 1980's, he picked up his cello after a long layoff following a ''tremendous personal tragedy,'' one that he did not wish to talk about. 
 ''I found my cello in the attic and got it fixed,'' he said. ''I just needed it. It was there for me. It pulled me back to life.'' 
 He now plays in two amateur orchestras in New Jersey -- the Summit Symphony and the Metropolitan Orchestra in West Orange -- and takes part in chamber music seminars. Scores of such seminars, like music camps for adults, take place around the country, mostly in the summer.
 ''I like playing with other people,'' Mr. Becker said. ''You're sitting there, and you're playing. You know you may not be playing perfectly in tune, and your interpretation may be bizarre, but the fact is, there are times where it really sounds good. It's transforming. It's transcendental -- is that the word?''
 Many of the amateurs, like Mr. Becker, a former securities analyst, are retirees who have the leisure time to play and who delight in the social connections. Others have to maneuver around the schedules of their young children to find time to rehearse. Still others are single and keep their antennae up for potential mates when they join new chamber ensembles. 
 Groups form and dissolve, often fed by the amateur orchestras that dot the region. They are all part of the larger universe of amateur classical music-making, which includes choruses. 
 Playing at home and for the love of it is an unseen aspect of the nation's cultural life, an activity that follows a direct line from 18th-century European drawing rooms to 21st-century family rooms. Nowadays, e-mail has made organizing groups much easier. Musicians also have a formal network, the Amateur Chamber Music Players association, which publishes directories listing willing players around the world. Its Web site quickly yields a handful of oboists or double bassists in any given region. Players grade themselves according to the association's guidelines and list their instruments, contact information, availability and languages spoken. 
 The association lists 75 members in northern New Jersey, about 50 each in southern Connecticut, Long Island and Westchester and 200 in the five boroughs of New York. Countless other music makers, of course, do not belong to it.
 Community orchestras and music seminars are also an important source for playing partners. So are chance encounters.
 ''I've met somebody on the street with an instrument and said, 'Hey, you want to play quartets?' '' said Lucretia M. Harrison of Port Washington, N.Y. Ms. Harrison, a violist, said she plays quartets once or twice a week, and performs occasionally at gatherings of the Port Washington Music Study Club in Nassau County, ''a bunch of ladies that meet once a month in people's homes and perform for each other.''
 The habit is ingrained in Ms. Harrison, a wry 85-year-old who has been playing chamber music for more than 60 years.
 The quartet that she has been playing with has been ''very tolerant'' of her, she said, ''although I miss some of the notes.''
 Ms. Harrison said she started playing violin in the fourth grade and switched to viola several years later. She formed her first quartet in high school in Port Washington, meeting the other members in an amateur opera company. As a young adult, she moved in with her sister in Manhattan, where an old boyfriend from high school tracked her down.
 ''He came a-courtin','' she said. ''So, by golly, we got married, and I moved back to Port Washington.'' 
 She worked as a public school teacher and librarian and raised four children, one of whom, a son, is an amateur French horn player. 
 Days after being interviewed, Ms. Harrison fell in her home and broke a hip. Yet she was undaunted and determined to keep playing. ''I couldn't live if I couldn't get back to it,'' she said in a later interview. ''If it takes three weeks or three months or three years, I'll get back to it.''
 Joseph Gluck, a violinist who retired from the New Jersey Symphony two years ago, runs a weekend workshop in Maplewood that has 82 people signed up. Mostly string players, they are generally assigned to groups by Mr. Gluck and rehearse for two hours on Saturdays. A coach counsels them for one of the two hours of the session. At the fourth session, they perform for each other. The cost is $160. The sessions take place in an Ethical Culture Society building.
 Mr. Gluck said he must negotiate around musicians who rate themselves too highly, or too modestly. ''I always try to encourage people to believe that if they are the strongest person in the group, it's a wonderful opportunity to share their knowledge and expertise,'' he said. 
 At the same time, he does not blame people for wanting to play with others at their own level.
 ''If I'm good at something, it's maintaining an atmosphere where people lose their competitive edges and try to remember we're playing music as a joyful experience, and to leave all the stuff that they do in real life away from the building and just come here for the pure joy of the whole thing.''
 Professional musicians sometimes get caught up in the business aspects of performing, Mr. Gluck said. ''But when you surround yourself with people who are doing it with one motivation, who love music, it infects oneself and keeps you optimistic,'' he said.
 The nature of suburban life, including the need to travel by car, often on heavily trafficked roads, inevitably creates differences in the way chamber music is lived in New York City and outside of it. Suburban players say there seems to be less socializing after music sessions, partly because of the time it takes to drive home. But the hours invested in travel also imply a greater commitment to the sessions.
 ''Just to try to get four people together at a common time is quite difficult,'' said Lisa Uckardes, a violinist and public school string teacher from Hicksville, N.Y. ''Honestly, I wouldn't look past Queens for anything because the traffic can really be kind of bad.''
 Groups that may not be compatible will often stay together because it is harder to find a substitute nearby, some players said. At the same time, playing in a house as opposed to an apartment means there is less worry about disturbing the neighbors downstairs, so rehearsals can go longer and later. 
 But living in a house has not necessarily made rehearsing easier for Kevin Root, a cello-playing psychotherapist who lives in Greenwich, Conn. He has 13-year-old identical twin boys whose presence makes scheduling music sessions difficult.
 ''They're asrambunctious as the day is long,'' he said. ''They would never allow me to take up that much space.'' His solution would probably not occur in Manhattan. He is converting his garage into a chamber music room in a $20,000 renovation.
 In many ways, Mr. Root exemplifies the rhythms and customs of the amateur chamber musician. He plays in an amateur group called the American Chamber Orchestra, based in Fairfield County. During a break in a rehearsal a little more than six months ago he turned to a violist nearby and asked if she would be interested in playing string quartets.
 ''She said, 'Definitely,' '' Mr. Root recalled. Whom, they wondered, could they recruit? The violist, who runs an after-school string program, mentioned a violin teacher who had recently graduated from the Eastman School of Music, in Rochester. The violist also brought in a second violinist she had played with years ago. 
 Presto, a string quartet.
 ''We get along quite well,'' Mr. Root said. ''That seems to be at least 50 percent of playing music, the ability to get along. I find it extremely difficult to put together groups, because of personality conflicts.''
 In fact, he said, it has taken him 10 years to form a quartet that stuck. Once, a nascent group fell apart because the first violinist had a ''dictatorial approach'' to playing music. ''No one wanted to play again,'' he said. ''It's personalities that just have to jell.''
 Another quartet lasted only six months. The first violinist was a conservatory-trained pianist who taught himself the violin. ''He sounded like a pianist playing the violin,'' Mr. Root said. ''He was very percussive. I couldn't stand to play with him anymore. I had to remove myself from that group.''
 In another case, Mr. Root said, he joined a quartet with a woman who had recently divorced. ''She decided she wanted me to be her boyfriend,'' he said. ''That fell apart very quickly.''
 Mismatched ability levels can also be a problem. A weaker player can frustrate the stronger players. 
 ''It's very hard to find the proper level and somebody you like and want to be with,'' said Lori C. Marden, a violinist also of Greenwich. Ms. Marden, a committed practicer, generally plays trios with a pianist and cellist on Monday mornings; string quartets from morning until after lunch every other Wednesday or so; and duos with a pianist on Friday mornings.
 ''I'm a fanatic,'' she said. ''It's part of me. There's no way that I could not do this. Music is so much a part of my life. It's always in my head, always.''
 Ms. Marden, who is unmarried, said she sometimes wondered how people dealt with enthusiastic music-making spouses. A pianist she has played with was married to a nonmusician, she said. ''The pianist became much more of a pianist and practiced all the time, and the marriage broke up,'' she said. The pianist later married a horn player, Ms. Marden said, adding that they remain happily together. 
 Some musical groups last longer than many marriages.
 Dr. Ralph Kirmser of Wilton, Conn., an oboist, founded a woodwind quintet 25 years ago with a French horn player, who remains with the group. (The other three members have changed.) ''We're called the Prevailing Winds,'' Dr. Kirmser said.
 The quintet often performs in nursing homes and libraries. ''It makes a difference,'' Dr. Kirmser said. ''It really focuses our rehearsals.''
 The personnel is typical: the horn player is a lawyer in Fairfield; the bassoonist is a dentist in Westport; a Bridgeport lawyer plays flute; the clarinetist teaches music in the Greenwich school system; and Dr. Kirmser is a cardiologist at Norwalk Hospital. 
 Dr. Kirmser recently began playing with another quintet, based in New York City. The commute to rehearsals takes him an hour. ''It adds a certain level of difficulty to get in there, and hence commitment to keep that group going,'' he said.
 Other amateur players eschew performances, preferring to sight-read or rehearse just for themselves.
 ''You have to have more dedication,'' said Michael Ira Asen, an oboist who lives in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Mr. Asen said his wind quintet had given only a few performances since its founding in 1995. 
 A litigator during the week, Mr. Asen turns the weekends over to tennis and the oboe. He practices for an hour on Saturday afternoon. His golden retriever, Mr. Asen asserts, keeps track of wrong notes and bad intonation with a bark. On Sunday morning, ''the guys'' gather at the home of a member of the quintet, which also includes a doctor, an economics professor, a retired lawyer and a marketing executive. 
 ''There is something really extraordinary about playing music,'' Mr. Asen said. ''It elevates you.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STRING TIME -- Kevin Root, right, a cellist, and Polly Jimenez, a violist, during a chamber music session at her home in Stamford, Conn. Allison McCann, a violinist, completed the trio. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
A LITTLE HELP -- Joseph Gluck, center, a former New Jersey Symphony violinist, coaching a quartet that includes Helen Kong on cello and Steve Rasch on violin at the Ethical Culture Society in Maplewood, N.J.
MAKING MUSIC -- A quintet rehearsing in the Larchmont, N.Y., home of its bassoonist, Michael Edelstein, above right, included, from left: Bill Salatino on clarinet
Mark Burns, on flute
Leslie Mantrone, back to camera, on French horn
and Michael Asen, whose oboe is obscured. Two cellists among the many string players who participate in amateur chamber sessions: Kevin Root, far right, in Stamford, Conn.
 and Bill Becker in Maplewood, N.J. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); SUBURBS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CITIES (64%) Music

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



526 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2048 words

HEADLINE: For Music's Sake

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
IT can wreck a marriage, reconfigure a home, lead to late-night sorties and seductive soirees -- and yet hundreds of suburbanites nurture an obsession with a seemingly genteel practice: playing chamber music. 
 Behind the placid lawns and condominium walls of New York's suburbs, these amateur musicians cluster around music stands in living rooms and dens after connecting at seminars and on street corners, through e-mail messages, word-of-mouth and cold calls. Many, after studying since childhood, had aspired to performing careers and even attended conservatory, but went instead into law or medicine or accounting or teaching. The yen to play, though, never left, so they live in a parallel musical world of amateur orchestras, ad hoc music sessions and long-established groups that adopt the familiar patterns of married couples (or more often, quartets or quintets).
''It's a great labor of love,'' said William Becker, 75, of West Orange, N.J. ''I lose myself in it.''
 Mr. Becker said that in the early 1980's, he picked up his cello after a long layoff following a ''tremendous personal tragedy,'' one that he did not wish to talk about. 
 ''I found my cello in the attic and got it fixed,'' he said. ''I just needed it. It was there for me. It pulled me back to life.'' 
 He now plays in two amateur orchestras in New Jersey -- the Summit Symphony and the Metropolitan Orchestra in West Orange -- and takes part in chamber music seminars. Scores of such seminars, like music camps for adults, take place around the country, mostly in the summer.
 ''I like playing with other people,'' Mr. Becker said. ''You're sitting there, and you're playing. You know you may not be playing perfectly in tune, and your interpretation may be bizarre, but the fact is, there are times where it really sounds good. It's transforming. It's transcendental -- is that the word?''
 Many of the amateurs, like Mr. Becker, a former securities analyst, are retirees who have the leisure time to play and who delight in the social connections. Others have to maneuver around the schedules of their young children to find time to rehearse. Still others are single and keep their antennae up for potential mates when they join new chamber ensembles. 
 Groups form and dissolve, often fed by the amateur orchestras that dot the region. They are all part of the larger universe of amateur classical music-making, which includes choruses. 
 Playing at home and for the love of it is an unseen aspect of the nation's cultural life, an activity that follows a direct line from 18th-century European drawing rooms to 21st-century family rooms. Nowadays, e-mail has made organizing groups much easier. Musicians also have a formal network, the Amateur Chamber Music Players association, which publishes directories listing willing players around the world. Its Web site quickly yields a handful of oboists or double bassists in any given region. Players grade themselves according to the association's guidelines and list their instruments, contact information, availability and languages spoken. 
 The association lists 75 members in northern New Jersey, about 50 each in southern Connecticut, Long Island and Westchester and 200 in the five boroughs of New York. Countless other music makers, of course, do not belong to it.
 Community orchestras and music seminars are also an important source for playing partners. So are chance encounters.
 ''I've met somebody on the street with an instrument and said, 'Hey, you want to play quartets?' '' said Lucretia M. Harrison of Port Washington, N.Y. Ms. Harrison, a violist, said she plays quartets once or twice a week, and performs occasionally at gatherings of the Port Washington Music Study Club in Nassau County, ''a bunch of ladies that meet once a month in people's homes and perform for each other.''
 The habit is ingrained in Ms. Harrison, a wry 85-year-old who has been playing chamber music for more than 60 years.
 The quartet that she has been playing with has been ''very tolerant'' of her, she said, ''although I miss some of the notes.''
 Ms. Harrison said she started playing violin in the fourth grade and switched to viola several years later. She formed her first quartet in high school in Port Washington, meeting the other members in an amateur opera company. As a young adult, she moved in with her sister in Manhattan, where an old boyfriend from high school tracked her down.
 ''He came a-courtin','' she said. ''So, by golly, we got married, and I moved back to Port Washington.'' 
 She worked as a public school teacher and librarian and raised four children, one of whom, a son, is an amateur French horn player. 
 Days after being interviewed, Ms. Harrison fell in her home and broke a hip. Yet she was undaunted and determined to keep playing. ''I couldn't live if I couldn't get back to it,'' she said in a later interview. ''If it takes three weeks or three months or three years, I'll get back to it.''
 Joseph Gluck, a violinist who retired from the New Jersey Symphony two years ago, runs a weekend workshop in Maplewood that has 82 people signed up. Mostly string players, they are generally assigned to groups by Mr. Gluck and rehearse for two hours on Saturdays. A coach counsels them for one of the two hours of the session. At the fourth session, they perform for each other. The cost is $160. The sessions take place in an Ethical Culture Society building.
 Mr. Gluck said he must negotiate around musicians who rate themselves too highly, or too modestly. ''I always try to encourage people to believe that if they are the strongest person in the group, it's a wonderful opportunity to share their knowledge and expertise,'' he said. 
 At the same time, he does not blame people for wanting to play with others at their own level.
 ''If I'm good at something, it's maintaining an atmosphere where people lose their competitive edges and try to remember we're playing music as a joyful experience, and to leave all the stuff that they do in real life away from the building and just come here for the pure joy of the whole thing.''
 Professional musicians sometimes get caught up in the business aspects of performing, Mr. Gluck said. ''But when you surround yourself with people who are doing it with one motivation, who love music, it infects oneself and keeps you optimistic,'' he said.
 The nature of suburban life, including the need to travel by car, often on heavily trafficked roads, inevitably creates differences in the way chamber music is lived in New York City and outside of it. Suburban players say there seems to be less socializing after music sessions, partly because of the time it takes to drive home. But the hours invested in travel also imply a greater commitment to the sessions.
 ''Just to try to get four people together at a common time is quite difficult,'' said Lisa Uckardes, a violinist and public school string teacher from Hicksville, N.Y. ''Honestly, I wouldn't look past Queens for anything because the traffic can really be kind of bad.''
 Groups that may not be compatible will often stay together because it is harder to find a substitute nearby, some players said. At the same time, playing in a house as opposed to an apartment means there is less worry about disturbing the neighbors downstairs, so rehearsals can go longer and later. 
 But living in a house has not necessarily made rehearsing easier for Kevin Root, a cello-playing psychotherapist who lives in Greenwich, Conn. He has 13-year-old identical twin boys whose presence makes scheduling music sessions difficult.
 ''They're as rambunctious as the day is long,'' he said. ''They would never allow me to take up that much space.'' His solution would probably not occur in Manhattan. He is converting his garage into a chamber music room in a $20,000 renovation.
 In many ways, Mr. Root exemplifies the rhythms and customs of the amateur chamber musician. He plays in an amateur group called the American Chamber Orchestra, based in Fairfield County. During a break in a rehearsal a little more than six months ago he turned to a violist nearby and asked if she would be interested in playing string quartets.
 ''She said, 'Definitely,' '' Mr. Root recalled. Whom, they wondered, could they recruit? The violist, who runs an after-school string program, mentioned a violin teacher who had recently graduated from the Eastman School of Music, in Rochester. The violist also brought in a second violinist she had played with years ago. 
 Presto, a string quartet.
 ''We get along quite well,'' Mr. Root said. ''That seems to be at least 50 percent of playing music, the ability to get along. I find it extremely difficult to put together groups, because of personality conflicts.''
 In fact, he said, it has taken him 10 years to form a quartet that stuck. Once, a nascent group fell apart because the first violinist had a ''dictatorial approach'' to playing music. ''No one wanted to play again,'' he said. ''It's personalities that just have to jell.''
 Another quartet lasted only six months. The first violinist was a conservatory-trained pianist who taught himself the violin. ''He sounded like a pianist playing the violin,'' Mr. Root said. ''He was very percussive. I couldn't stand to play with him anymore. I had to remove myself from that group.''
 In another case, Mr. Root said, he joined a quartet with a woman who had recently divorced. ''She decided she wanted me to be her boyfriend,'' he said. ''That fell apart very quickly.''
 Mismatched ability levels can also be a problem. A weaker player can frustrate the stronger players. 
 ''It's very hard to find the proper level and somebody you like and want to be with,'' said Lori C. Marden, a violinist also of Greenwich. Ms. Marden, a committed practicer, generally plays trios with a pianist and cellist on Monday mornings; string quartets from morning until after lunch every other Wednesday or so; and duos with a pianist on Friday mornings.
 ''I'm a fanatic,'' she said. ''It's part of me. There's no way that I could not do this. Music is so much a part of my life. It's always in my head, always.''
 Ms. Marden, who is unmarried, said she sometimes wondered how people dealt with enthusiastic music-making spouses. A pianist she has played with was married to a nonmusician, she said. ''The pianist became much more of a pianist and practiced all the time, and the marriage broke up,'' she said. The pianist later married a horn player, Ms. Marden said, adding that they remain happily together. 
 Some musical groups last longer than many marriages.
 Dr. Ralph Kirmser of Wilton, Conn., an oboist, founded a woodwind quintet 25 years ago with a French horn player, who remains with the group. (The other three members have changed.) ''We're called the Prevailing Winds,'' Dr. Kirmser said.
 The quintet often performs in nursing homes and libraries. ''It makes a difference,'' Dr. Kirmser said. ''It really focuses our rehearsals.''
 The personnel is typical: the horn player is a lawyer in Fairfield; the bassoonist is a dentist in Westport; a Bridgeport lawyer plays flute; the clarinetist teaches music in the Greenwich school system; and Dr. Kirmser is a cardiologist at Norwalk Hospital. 
 Dr. Kirmser recently began playing with another quintet, based in New York City. The commute to rehearsals takes him an hour. ''It adds a certain level of difficulty to get in there, and hence commitment to keep that group going,'' he said.
 Other amateur players eschew performances, preferring to sight-read or rehearse just for themselves.
 ''You have to have more dedication,'' said Michael Ira Asen, an oboist who lives in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Mr. Asen said his wind quintet had given only a few performances since its founding in 1995. 
 A litigator during the week, Mr. Asen turns the weekends over to tennis and the oboe. He practices for an hour on Saturday afternoon. His golden retriever, Mr. Asen asserts, keeps track of wrong notes and bad intonation with a bark. On Sunday morning, ''the guys'' gather at the home of a member of the quintet, which also includes a doctor, an economics professor, a retired lawyer and a marketing executive. 
 ''There is something really extraordinary about playing music,'' Mr. Asen said. ''It elevates you.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STRING TIME -- Kevin Root, right, a cellist, and Polly Jimenez, a violist, during a chamber music session at her home in Stamford, Conn. Allison McCann, a violinist, completed the trio. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
A LITTLE HELP -- Joseph Gluck, center, a former New Jersey Symphony violinist, coaching a quartet that includes Helen Kong on cello and Steve Rasch on violin at the Ethical Culture Society in Maplewood, N.J.
MAKING MUSIC -- A quintet rehearsing in the Larchmont, N.Y., home of its bassoonist, Michael Edelstein, above right, included, from left: Bill Salatino on clarinet
Mark Burns, on flute
Leslie Mantrone, back to camera, on French horn
and Michael Asen, whose oboe is obscured. Two cellists among the many string players who participate in amateur chamber sessions: Kevin Root, far right, in Stamford, Conn.
 and Bill Becker in Maplewood, N.J. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); SUBURBS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CITIES (64%) Music

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



527 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of Connecticut

Hartford Hearing on water diversion permits. Tuesday and Thursday at 9:30 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037.

Hartford Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism. Monday at 1:30 p.m. 755 Main Street. (860) 256-2727.

Hartford State Elections Enforcement Commission. Wednesday at 9 a.m. 20 Trinity Street. (860) 566-1776.

Kent Connecticut Trustee Subcouncil of the Department of Environmental Protection meeting on a natural resources restoration plan for the Housatonic River Basin. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Kent Town Hall, 41 Kent Green Boulevard. (860) 424-3474.

Trumbull Connecticut Siting Council public hearing on the United Illuminating Company's application to build an electric substation. Tuesday at 3 p.m. Trumbull Town Hall, 5866 Main Street. (203) 452-5000.

Fairfield County

Bethel Charter Revision Committee. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.

Bethel Parks and Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.

Danbury Environmental Impact Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

Danbury Zoning Board of Appeals. Thursday at 7 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

Darien Board of Education. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Darien Town Hall, 2 Renshaw Road. (203) 656-7300.

New Canaan Historic District Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. New Canaan Town Hall, 77 Main Street. (203) 972-2323.

Norwalk Conservation Commission. Tuesday at 6 p.m. Norwalk City Hall, 125 East Avenue. (203) 854-7900.

Redding Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002.

Ridgefield Architectural Advisory Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Ridgefield Town Hall, 400 Main Street. (203) 431-2700.

Trumbull Water Pollution Control Authority. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Trumbull Town Hall, 5866 Main Street. (203) 452-5000.

Hartford County

New Britain Board of Finance and Taxation. Monday at 6 p.m. New Britain City Hall, 27 West Main Street. (860) 826-3344.

Plainville Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Plainville Municipal Center, 1 Central Square. (860) 793-0221.

Litchfield County

Barkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285.

Cornwall Zoning Board of Appeals. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Cornwall Town Hall, 26 Pine Street. (860) 672-2709.

Falls Village Planning and Zoning Board. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Canaan Town Hall, 108 Main Street. (860) 824-0707.

New Milford Inland Wetlands Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020.

New Milford Town Council. Monday at 7:30 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020.

Plymouth Board of Finance. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Plymouth Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001.

Middlesex County

Chester Retirement Board. Monday at 7 p.m. Chester Town Hall, 203 Middlesex Avenue. (860) 526-0013.

Essex Harbor Management Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340.

New Haven County

Madison Water Pollution Control Authority. Wednesday at 8 a.m. Madison Town Campus, 8 Campus Drive. (203) 245-5672.

Milford Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at noon. Milford City Hall, 70 West River Street. (203) 783-3210.

New London County

Groton Zoning Board of Appeals. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Groton Town Hall, 45 Fort Hill Road. (860) 441-6640.

Montville Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030, ext. 311.

Tolland County

Andover Board of Finance. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Old Firehouse, Center Street. (860) 742-7305.

Bolton Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Bolton Town Hall, 222 Bolton Center Road. (860) 649-8066.

Windham County

Ashford Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Ashford Town Office Building, 5 Town Hall Road. (860) 487-4401.

Plainfield Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7 p.m. Plainfield Town Hall, 8 Community Avenue. (860) 230-3000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ZONING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY SITING (76%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); RIVERS (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (68%); WATER POLLUTION (67%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (52%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED ILLUMINATING CO (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



528 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Debt Is Keeping Troops From Overseas Duty, Study Finds

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 21 

 BODY:
Thousands of American troops are being barred from overseas duty because they are so deep in debt that they are considered security risks, according to a review of military records by The Associated Press. 
 The number of troops held back has climbed sharply in the past few years. And while it appears to represent a small percentage of all military personnel, the increase is occurring at a time when the armed forces are stretched thin by wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
''We are seeing an alarming trend in degrading financial health,'' said Capt. Mark D. Patton, commander of Naval Base Point Loma in San Diego.
 The Pentagon contends that financial problems can distract troops from their duties or make them vulnerable to bribery and treason. As a result, those who fall heavily into debt can be stripped of the security clearances they need to go overseas.
 The number of revoked clearances has surged since the beginning of the Iraq war, but military officials say there is no evidence that troops are deliberately running up debts to stay out of harm's way.
 The problem is attributed to several factors, including a lack of financial acumen among young recruits; reckless spending among those exhilarated to make it home from a tour of duty; and the profusion of so-called payday lenders, businesses that allow military personnel to borrow against paychecks at extremely high interest rates.
 The debt problems have persisted despite financial counseling offered to the troops by the Pentagon and crackdowns on payday lenders.
 Data supplied by the Air Force, the Marines and the Navy show that the number of clearances revoked for financial reasons rose every year from 2002 to 2005, climbing to 2,654 last year from 284 at the start of the period. Partial numbers from this year suggest the trend is continuing.
 About 6,300 troops in the three branches lost their clearances in that four-year period. Roughly 900,000 people are serving in the three branches, though not all need clearances.
 The figures represent just a piece of the problem, because the Army -- which employs an additional 500,000 people and accounts for the majority of the 160,000 troops in Iraq and Afghanistan -- rejected requests to supply its data, saying such information was confidential.
 Security clearances are revoked when service members' debt payments total 30 to 40 percent of their salary. The exact amount depends on the military branch.
 Not all military jobs require security clearances. Marine infantryman does not, but some Marine specialties do. So do many jobs in the Navy and Air Force.
 Financial problems are the overwhelming reason security clearances are revoked. Other reasons include criminal activity, questionable allegiance and ill health.
 A primary reason the military revokes clearances on financial grounds is the fear that soldiers in debt may be tempted to sell secrets or equipment to the enemy.
 In addition, ''when they are over there fighting, we like them to have their heads in the game,'' said Maj. Gen. Michael Lehnert, commander of Marine bases in the Western United States. 
 Military officials also blame high interest rates at payday lending businesses, many of which are clustered outside bases around the country. Several states have cracked down on the lending practices. On Tuesday, President Bush signed legislation limiting how much these businesses could charge military personnel.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A used car lot in Oceanside, Calif., offers credit to marines from nearby Camp Pendleton. Credit problems can affect security clearances. (Photo by Denis Poroy/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NAVIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (86%); ARMIES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); TREASON (74%); BRIBERY (69%); TERRORISM (59%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Credit; Wages and Salaries; Security and Warning Systems; United States Armament and Defense

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



529 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: North and South Don't Share the Same View on Conditions at One Manhattan Park

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
On a warm, cloudless day a few weeks ago, Riverside Park hummed with activity. At the annual Oyster Festival, crowds of people downed freshly shucked oysters and drank pints of Guinness as the Hudson River lapped softly in the background.
 In the same park, about 30 blocks to the north, the scene was less genteel. Two homeless women, one speaking animatedly, the other silently combing her hair with her fingers, negotiated with a crack cocaine dealer. 
''Come over here a minute,'' he told them, gesturing to an overgrown section where soiled mattresses lay in a tangle of weeds.
 Both episodes took place within half an hour of each other at one of the city's most popular open spaces. The park's southern tier, which stretches some 266 acres along the river from 59th Street to 125th Street, has among its highlights immaculate lawns, sand volleyball courts, a preserve for bird watching, and tennis courts and baseball and soccer fields that have been resurfaced in the past 18 months. 
 The park's 50-acre northern section, which continues along the river from 125th Street to 158th Street, has none of those amenities. The divots in the two ball fields are so deep that they remain full of water for days after rainstorms, leading children to place sections of cardboard over them in order to play baseball. 
 In the north, as well, a thriving open-air sex market exists, with mattresses and lean-tos fashioned out of plastic bags and cast-off clothes for privacy. There are discarded hypodermic needles, crack cocaine paraphernalia, mounds of trash and the stench of human waste.
 Outside a playground at 141st Street and Riverside Drive, the walkway is sinking -- taking a picnic table and two benches with it. 
 At another playground, there is a hole in the granite pavement about the size of a child's foot. The Parks Department has placed a metal sheet over it, but people who use the playground said the hole has gone unrepaired for more than two years.
 In a recent interview, William Castro, the Parks Department's Manhattan borough commissioner, said he had been unaware of many of the trash and maintenance problems at the northern end of the park. Mr. Castro, in fact, said the department spent roughly the same amount to maintain each end of the park.
 ''The capital dollars that go to the northern part of the park is approximately equal to the south,'' he said. ''And the cleaning in both parts is about the same.''
 But the disparity in conditions between the two sections is so stark that longtime residents say it is as if a line has been drawn at 125th Street.
 Savona Bailey-McClain, a Harlem resident and executive director of the West Harlem Art Fund, said she has been working for years to win what she defines as parity for the northern tier of Riverside Park and has recently helped develop a master plan for an overall improvement of the area.
 ''That area of the park has been neglected for decades -- not weeks, not months, not years -- decades,'' she said.
 Park advocates say public complaints about uneven maintenance in city parks is not new, but at Riverside Park, the differences seem particularly conspicuous. The northern end includes areas where wild vines grow out of broken lampposts and the park's benches have been removed, leaving holes in the pavement. Barricades have also been posted across entry stairways with ''No Trespassing'' signs. 
 Mr. Castro said the economic differences between the neighborhoods that border the two sections of Riverside Park -- the more affluent Upper West Side and the more economically uneven streets of Harlem -- had nothing to do with the way the department maintained either end. 
 According to the Parks Department's Web site, its inspectors have consistently rated the cleanliness of the northern section as being ''acceptable,'' the highest rating it awards.
 Still, last month, after inquiries were made about cleaning and maintenance in the northern tier, the Parks Department began a cleanup that included evicting homeless people and dismantling their shanties, removing truckloads of garbage, and using high powered hoses to cleanse urine and feces stained staircases.
 Left behind was a massive pile of trash that neighbors said has been growing for years. Mr. Castro said Parks Department workers had not found it during the cleanup.
 ''We need to do a better job of cleaning it,'' Mr. Castro said of the northern section. He said he planned to place an extra cleaning crew in the area. 
 But Mr. Castro said some portions of the northern tier were magnets for litterbugs. He said cleaning the northern section's steep slopes was difficult because workers have a hard time keeping their balance.
 ''It's very dangerous, dirty, hard work for our park workers to clean the slopes,'' he said.
 Mr. Castro acknowledged that sex and drug trades in the northern tier has been a problem for years.
 Mr. Castro said the city could do little to stop the illegal activities or to fix the section of the northern tier that is sinking. He said the metal plate covering the hole outside the playground made the play area secure.
 ''It is safe,'' he said.
 But William Artist, 42, who said he refuses to let his son play in the playground anymore, disagreed.
 ''I stopped letting him go there because the whole thing might collapse,'' he said. ''It's dangerous, and they won't fix it.''
 Jim Dowell, president of the Riverside Park Fund, a private, nonprofit group that he said spends about $2 million a year on various projects in the park, said he has heard few, if any complaints, about inequality between the south and north sides of the park.
 ''I could take you places up there that are just as well-maintained as anywhere else in the park,'' he said.
 While parks officials say there are no homeless encampments in the southern park, the people who live in the northern part said they remain there because they are undisturbed by parks workers.
 ''We come here because nobody bothers us here,'' said a man in his 40's who gave his name as Georgie. ''We like it dirty.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two sections of Riverside Park in Manhattan. At left, a bridge leads to an isolated portion to the north, near economically uneven neighborhoods. The portion at right is near the affluent Upper West Side. (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); BASEBALL (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (64%); BIRDING (53%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Homeless Persons; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Cocaine and Crack Cocaine; Parks and Other Recreation Areas

PERSON: William (Comr) Castro; Timothy Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Riverside Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



530 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: 2 Sides Brace for Rematch In Westchester Senate Bid

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: YONKERS, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
The neighborhood of well-appointed Tudor homes in this city's northeast corner, snug against the genteel villages of Bronxville and Tuckahoe, is a stronghold of State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, the Republican scion of an influential Westchester County family. 
 Mr. Spano has consistently carried the neighborhood, known as Crestwood, for more than two decades. In 2004, it gave him three times as many votes as his challenger, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, who barely campaigned within its borders.
But as the day dawned on Thursday, Ms. Stewart-Cousins was inside the Crestwood Metro-North station, shaking hands and passing out leaflets to commuters.
 Having come within 18 votes of toppling Mr. Spano two years ago, Ms. Stewart-Cousins, a Democratic Westchester County legislator, is now courting constituents deep inside his turf, knowing that even a few minds changed could make the difference in what is expected to be another close election. 
 ''Had I lost by 1,800 votes or 18,000 votes, everyone would have been able to say, 'Well, what could I have done?' But with 18 votes, everybody knows they could have done something, and that's the underlying message of my campaign,'' Ms. Stewart-Cousins said later that morning over breakfast at a downtown diner. 
 ''This is an opportunity to those who felt that they could sit out an election or that they didn't matter to show that the power of legacy and entrenchment are not real excuses,'' she said. ''The only thing that's real is people's power to effect change.''
 Every bit the underdog in 2004, Ms. Stewart-Cousins, the first black woman elected to represent Yonkers in the County Legislature, is now a crucial part of the Democratic Party's strategy to eat away at the 35-to-27 Republican majority in the State Senate. She is running in an overwhelmingly Democratic district at a time when the Democratic Party is poised to win the governorship for the first time in 12 years. 
 Victory is far from a sure bet, however. Ms. Stewart-Cousins, 56, faces an atypical Republican, who has been able to straddle both sides of the ideological aisle, at times to the chagrin of his party's conservative wing. 
 Over the past few years, Mr. Spano has won praise from women's reproductive rights groups by introducing a bill that would have made the so-called morning-after pill available without a prescription, although it was vetoed by Gov. George E. Pataki. He also received support from gay rights groups after successfully pushing legislation that extended hospital visitation rights to same-sex couples.
 The stakes in this race ''are very high'' among those who are active in party politics, said Gregory Julian, chairman of the Political Science Department at Pace University. ''On one side, you have a popular African-American woman who is demonstrating this incredible knowledge of the issues and who, in some ways, embodies the transformation that has been at the heart of the Democratic agenda this election season,'' Professor Julian said. ''On the other hand you have a guy who is being supported by his party in a way he's never been supported before and that makes it incredibly difficult for the challenger,'' he added.
 Mr. Spano was dealt a blow by the Working Families Party, which is staying neutral after endorsing him in 2004. He has, however, won the overwhelming support of that party's union members, who have an efficient get-out-the-vote operation, and of Acorn, the country's largest community group for low-income families.
 Ms. Stewart-Cousins, meanwhile, is trying to capitalize on her party's standard-bearers. She has campaigned with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Attorney General Elliot Spitzer, the front- runner in the gubernatorial race. On Thursday, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. endorsed her.
 Still, as one of the state's most senior senators, Mr. Spano, 53, the senior assistant majority leader, holds considerable sway in Albany, which can benefit his district and his electoral chances He has been particularly active since his near-defeat, which might explain, in part, his success in the past legislative session, especially on the local front. He patched up a decades-old feud between the state and the city over financial aid to help the city close its budget gap and engineered an aid package to rescue the Westchester Medical Center and delivered state funds to help close a gap in the Yonkers schools budget.
 ''Over the last two years, I have led the charge to reform the system in the Senate,'' Mr. Spano said in an interview. ''I feel that I was elected as an independent voice, and it's a role I take very seriously. I can represent Westchester in a bipartisan way and I've gotten results.''
 He has raised about $1 million in campaign funds since January, three times as much as Ms. Stewart-Cousins, and outspent her by a ratio of 10 to 1, according to the most recent reports filed with the Board of Elections. He has not shied away from pointed attacks against her in interviews, on the campaign trail, and in campaign commercials. In one of them, Mr. Spano chastised Ms. Stewart-Cousins for what he called her failing to oppose the opening of a homeless shelter, even though the shelter was never the subject of a vote by the County Legislature.
 Ms. Stewart-Cousins has focused her criticism on what she calls Mr. Spano's "20 years of failure" in Albany, including his inability to reduce property taxes and to offer a lasting solution for the chronic fiscal problems that beset the Yonkers schools. She has sought to visit every corner of the district, which encompasses most of Yonkers and the towns of Mount Pleasant and Greenburgh. 
 ''This election is going to come down to phone calls reminding people to vote. It's going to come down to knocking on doors. It's going to come down to pure voter contact,'' said Brian Stedge-Stroud, who is managing Ms. Stewart-Cousins's campaign. Mr. Spano and Ms. Stewart-Cousins come from different sides of a city that remains deeply divided along racial and economic lines 21 years after a federal judge ordered the desegregation of its public housing and schools. He was born here to a family of 16 children, went to Catholic schools and lives in the predominantly white east side. She grew up in the Bronx, but moved to Yonkers as a young bride in 1979 and still lives in the same minority-heavy neighborhood on the west side of town. She is the first in her family to enter into politics.
 There have been signs recently that the Spano family may be losing some of its influence. The senator's father, Leonard Spano, retired last year as county clerk after three decades of public service. In 2003, the senator's younger brother, Michael Spano, lost the Republican primary for mayor and later decided not to seek re-election to the Assembly, where he had served for 10 years. He is now vying to regain his seat in Albany, but is facing fierce opposition from Shelley Mayer, who is running on the Democratic and Working Families Party lines. But Senator Spano does not sound intimidated. He is quick to tell the story of a registered Democrat who walked up to him and said, ''You're the Republican I'm voting for this year.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrea Stewart-Cousins campaigning in Yonkers last week. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, who faces a challenger he defeated by 18 votes two years ago, campaigning in Yonkers last week. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); VETO (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); LGBT RIGHTS (63%); CONTRACEPTION (50%) 

PERSON: Nicholas A (Sen) Spano; Andrea Stewart-Cousins; Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State; Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



531 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: A Factory Laborer in Cleats, Leyland Is a Symbol of a City 

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Jim Leyland is a factory of a man, with hex bolts for elbows and smoke plumes from his Marlboros. He is thin but rugged, with hollow cheeks abandoned by any sign of excess. He is as austere as this city. 
 He knows, like Motown, about the remains of a fall, what it's like to be on blocks. In his topography, in his journey, in his unthinkable revival, Leyland is Detroit. 
 But as he prowled the dugout last night, the team he saw at Comerica Park was not humming the gospel of grit. The Tigers opened the World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals practically ditzy in a 7-2 loss. 
 ''For whatever reason,'' outfielder Curtis Granderson said, ''we were passive.''
 The Tigers weren't just rusty from a week off, but dazed and unprepared.
 ''It seemed like we were a step behind,'' said third baseman Brandon Inge, who made an error and was called for interference on a play that led to a run. ''Seemed like the intensity wasn't there.'' 
 Maybe arrogance left them in a lull. Destiny had picked them, right? The American League was superior, wasn't it? 
 Leyland seemed to play into the theme of overconfidence in the third inning when he trusted Justin Verlander to face the serial brute Albert Pujols.
 ''I pitched to him, and obviously he burned us,'' Leyland said.
 Pujols put an uppercut on a two-run homer that left the Leyland faithful in the right-field stands asking, ''What was he thinking?''
 It was a quiet rumble of discontent, though. After all, the Tigers have a habit of teasing giddy anticipation with bursts of folly. 
 There is still plenty of time for the Tigers to find themselves, for Leyland to refocus the team with a scolding if necessary. Detroiters believe in Leyland's resuscitation skills because they know a little bit about rebirths. 
 Of all small-town Jims -- a guy reared an hour away in Perrysburg, Ohio -- Leyland is urban renewal. 
 ''When I heard Jimmy Leyland when he first came to town, how he talked about winning and championships and revival, I knew people didn't believe him,'' Detroit Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick said on Friday. ''But there is a spirit of can-do here. You can change the culture.''
 The city's hope brokers played host to the Super Bowl in February, but that was a party for everyone else. The Super Bowl is a gilded squatter, plopping down, not moving for a week, so every outsider in a limo can pull up to indulge. The World Series is local, not global, and it's a party for the people.
 ''It's interesting to me,'' Kilpatrick added, ''how this issue of a baseball team has turned into an example of hope for the city.''
 Leyland's Tigers are reflective of what can develop from a renovation of ideas. For three years, General Manager Dave Dombrowski had to overpay players like Pudge Rodriguez in an effort to lure talent to this losers' abyss. Dombrowski assembled a collection of castoffs and spare parts.
 To pull together a team of square wheels, Detroit didn't need street cred. The Tigers needed blue-collar cred. They needed Leyland. 
 ''He's often referred to as a blue-collar type of person, and sometimes as an old-time baseball manager,'' said Jim's brother, the Rev. Thomas Leyland, in an e-mail message yesterday. 
 Rev. Leyland understands Detroit. He is the pastor at St. Rose Parish in Perrysburg, but he spent four years at the University of Detroit. 
 ''Although I realize that Detroit and the area have many economic classes of people, and although I realize that things have changed since my undergraduate days, there is a kind of basic no-nonsense quality in the people,'' said Rev. Leyland, adding that his brother had a big heart ''as do the people of mid-America, in my experience.'' 
 Jim Leyland is grounded, firmly planted in a lunch-pail ideology. 
 Detroit has been trying to survive a cycle of failure with its shrinking auto industry, with its futile team. Somehow, out of a stubborn belief in each other, a World Series contender was born. Somehow, in a city seemingly destined to despair, there are construction cranes downtown. Reparation is far from completion, but at least now there is a team to love and a manger to identify with. 
 That's what made Game 1 so baffling. The Tigers bore no resemblance to Leyland. In fact, the Tigers looked like a team in costume -- like the fans who, on Friday, played dress up in a Magglio Ordonez lookalike contest, complete with curly wigs.
 The Tigers can reclaim their identity in Game 2. They're good at transformation. They've taken notes on Leyland's comeback. 
 After he burned out in Colorado six years ago, Leyland retreated to the grassroots of baseball, to fundamentals, hitting backyard fungos to his son as a Little League parent. 
 ''I think what it did is it made me realize that watching my son play made me more nervous than managing in the major leagues,'' Leyland said Friday. ''I don't know if that's why I came back for sure or not. But it's kind of hard to believe that a year ago I was throwing batting practice to a bunch of 13-year-olds on some kind of field that looked nothing like Comerica Park.''
 Embrace it, and it can embrace you right back. When the Tigers closed out its American League division series victory over the Yankees, Leyland walked to the backstop, leaned through the netting and kissed his wife.
 A lovestruck fan pushed against the net loops for a smooch, too. And so Leyland obliged by giving the guy a peck on the bill of his Tigers cap. 
 He was in no mood to hug anyone after Game 1. But Leyland is a sap beneath the gristle and smoke, blemishes and hollow cheeks. He is Detroit.
 ''I think the team is emblematic of the city,'' Kilpatrick said. ''Just a bunch of hard-working guys no one expected to win.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); ATHLETES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MAYORS (66%) Baseball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Coaches and Managers; World Series

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (91%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (83%) Detroit Tigers; St Louis Cardinals

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

PERSON: Selena Roberts; Jim Leyland

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



532 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Brilliant Pitching Gains a Rookie Some Recognition

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Anthony Reyes pulls his cap down so far on his head that he looks as if he is trying to hide from somebody.
 ''I'm not a real stylemaster,'' Reyes's manager, Tony La Russa said, ''but that style is not that attractive. I don't think it's going to be copied widely by the kids of America.''
Reyes also wears his uniform pants high, old style, so that his socks show. 
 ''The socks I've had up since Little League,'' said Reyes, a 25-year-old right-hander. ''I saw no reason to change now.'' And the cap? ''It helps me see better; I see the signs a little better.''
 One more fashion note: The bill of the cap is flat, unlike other players' bills, which are stylishly curved. ''It comes out of the box flat,'' Reyes said. ''I just don't bend it.''
 Reyes's cap and socks became topics of discussion last night because he pitched brilliantly in the St. Louis Cardinals' surprising 7-2 victory over the Detroit Tigers in the opening game of the World Series.
 It was a surprise because few people expected the Cardinals to have a chance against the Tigers, who had won seven straight postseason games, knocked the Yankees out of the playoffs in the first round and swept Oakland out of the League Championship Series.
 In a first-ever first-game matchup between rookie pitchers, Reyes outpitched Justin Verlander, allowing a run in the first inning, then retiring the next 17 batters after Carlos Guillen's run-scoring single. Reyes, one of the Cardinals' new starting pitchers this year, pitched into the ninth inning and gave up only three hits.
 Because he lasted only four innings in Game 4 of the series against the Mets, it was speculated that for the World Series, La Russa might switch to Jason Marquis, who was not on the roster for the Mets series.
 Asked after the game why he didn't switch to Marquis, La Russa said, ''He had value as a spot starter or reliever,'' but that Reyes had pitched more recently. ''We decided it was more reasonable for Anthony than to challenge Jason,'' he said.
 The Cardinals could not have asked for more from Reyes, whose first start this season came May 20. He compiled a 5-8 record and a 5.06 earned run average in 17 starts.
 ''We had a coaches dinner last night and each coach put down what they thought he would do,'' La Russa said. ''Two coaches said into the eighth inning. I thought if he went five or six with low runs that he had done a great job.''
 Reyes, who pitched one complete game this season, gave up a run-scoring single to Guillen in the first inning, then did not allow another runner until Guillen singled with one out in the seventh. 
 ''I just tried to focus on the glove after all that happened and just forgot about what type of level game this is,'' Reyes said, referring to the first inning. ''Just focus on the glove and whatever signs are put down, just try to hit them and not worry about anything else.''
 The Tigers drafted Reyes in 2002, but he didn't sign with them. The Cardinals drafted him a year later, and he signed with them.
 ''I came off an injury in college when they drafted me,'' Reyes said of the Tigers, ''so I just figured, take the summer off and just heal up and try to go back to my last year of college.''
 The Cardinals have experienced a constant turnover of starting pitchers, economically motivated moves. 
 Two of the four pitchers who started for the Cardinals the last time they were in the World Series, only two years ago, are gone. None of the nine pitchers who started the Cardinals' 162 games in 2003 are on this year's World Series roster either.
 The turnover rate has been high, not only among pitchers but among position players as well. Only eight players who played in the 2004 World Series roster were on the roster last night. Yet the Cardinals continue to win division championships -- they have won four in the last five seasons -- and sometimes get to the World Series; they have gone twice in the last three years.
 They do it with skillful signings in their orchestration of the annual turnover, which is prompted largely by economic necessity. But they also do it by retaining the core of their team. Both facets played prominent roles last night.
 By comparison, Scott Rolen, Albert Pujols and Jim Edmonds are long-time members of the team, and they provided the punch that produced the outcome.
 Rolen and Pujols each slugged a home run, accounting for three of the Cardinals' first four runs. Edmonds singled home the fifth run and Rolen added a double that led to two more runs.
 ''We've managed to keep our core players, which are very important to our club,'' General Manager Walt Jocketty said. ''The key is our core players and finding the right guys to fit around them.''
 Four starting pitchers can become free agents next week: Jeff Weaver, Jeff Suppan, Mark Mulder and Marquis.
 ''We decided in spring training we were going to go through the year, and at the end of the season we'd decide who we wanted to sign,'' Jocketty said. 
 Whichever pitchers they sign, the Cardinals will have Reyes back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (87%); YOUTH SPORTS (76%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%) Baseball; World Series

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (83%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (83%) St Louis Cardinals; Detroit Tigers

PERSON: Murray Chass; Anthony Reyes

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



533 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 22, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	2	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	2		1	THIRTEEN MOONS, by Charles Frazier. (Random House, $26.95.) A man raised in the North Carolina wilderness travels America in defense of his adopted Indian people and broods over an elusive woman.		 	 	 	3		1	MOTOR MOUTH, by Janet Evanovich. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Alexandra Barnaby, known as Barney; her boyfriend, a Nascar driver; and his St. Bernard inadvertently become involved in a murder investigation as they investigate a possible cheating scandal.		 	 	 	4	5	5	THE BOOK OF FATE, by Brad Meltzer. (Warner, $25.99.) The apparent murder of a presidential aide reveals Masonic secrets in Washington and a 200-year-old code invented by Thomas Jefferson.		 	 	 	5	2	4	THE THIRTEENTH TALE, by Diane Setterfield. (Atria, $26.) A biographer struggles to discover the truth about an aging writer who has mythologized her past.		 	 	 	6	3	2	UNDER ORDERS, by Dick Francis. (Putnam, $25.95.) Sid Halley, a jockey turned P.I., investigates the murder of a jockey who may have been throwing races.		 	 	 	7	4	2	THE ROAD, by Cormac McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.) A father and son journey through post-apocalypse America.		 	 	 	8		1	STRANGE CANDY, by Laurell K. Hamilton. (Berkley, $23.95.) Fourteen dark stories from the author of the ''Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter'' series.		 	 	 	9	8	6	RISE AND SHINE, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of two New York sisters, one the host of a popular morning television show and the other a social worker, in two very different New Yorks.		 	 	 	10		1	FINDING NOEL, by Richard Paul Evans. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) At Christmas, an unhappy young man helps a woman find her family; from the author of ''The Christmas Box.''		 	 	 	11	6	5	THE GUY NOT TAKEN, by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria, $24.95.) Stories about women and relationships from the author of ''In Her Shoes.''		 	 	 	12	10	10	JUDGE & JURY, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An aspiring actress and an F.B.I. agent join forces against a powerful mobster.		 	 	 	13	7	3	THE MISSION SONG, by John le Carre. (Little, Brown, $26.99.) An English translator, born in Congo, is sent by British intelligence to work for a corporate syndicate that wants to subvert Congolese elections.		 	 	 	14	11	2	DARTH BANE: PATH OF DESTRUCTION, by Drew Karpyshyn. (Lucas/Del Rey/Ballantine, $25.95.) A young warrior gifted in the Force struggles to become lord of the Siths: a ''Star Wars'' novel.		 	 	 	15		1	CHRISTMAS LETTERS, by Debbie Macomber. (Mira, $16.95.) It's Christmas on Blossom Street in Seattle, and a child psychologist and a writer fall in love despite their differences.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	2	2	STATE OF DENIAL, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The third ''Bush at War'' volume by the longtime Washington Post reporter and editor describes the inept conduct of the invasion and occupation of Iraq.		 	 	 	2	1	2	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	3	5	10	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	4	4	2	SAVING GRACES, by Elizabeth Edwards. (Broadway, $24.95.) A memoir by the wife of the vice presidential candidate John Edwards focuses on the election of 2004 and her subsequent struggle against breast cancer.		 	 	 	5	6	51	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	6	11	3	LETTER TO A CHRISTIAN NATION, by Sam Harris. (Knopf, $16.95.) The author of ''The End of Faith'' responds to Christians' arguments in defense of their beliefs.		 	 	 	7	3	3	THE GREATEST STORY EVER SOLD, by Frank Rich. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) A Times columnist attacks the Bush administration's message management.		 	 	 	8	12	3	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	9	10	79	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	10	7	2	U2 BY U2, by Bono, the Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr. with Neil McCormick. (HarperCollins, $39.95.) Photographs, documents and extensive interviews with members of the legendary band.		 	 	 	11		10	FIASCO, by Thomas E. Ricks. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) How the failure to understand the developing Iraqi insurgency contributed to its further growth.		 	 	 	12	8	2	IN THE LINE OF FIRE, by Pervez Musharraf. (Free Press, $28.) A memoir by the president of Pakistan discusses his role in the war on terror.		 	 	 	13	13	2	SOCIAL INTELLIGENCE, by Daniel Goleman. (Bantam, $28.) The author of ''Emotional Intelligence'' argues that our brains are designed for sociability.		 	 	 	14		1	BLOOD AND THUNDER, by Hampton Sides. (Doubleday, $26.95.) A history of the American conquest of the West, focused on Kit Carson's defeat of the Navajo.		 	 	 	15		1	THE BLIND SIDE, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $24.95.) The evolving business of football, viewed through the rise of the left tackle Michael Oher.		 	 	 	16*	9	3	THE CONFESSION, by James E. McGreevey. (Regan, $26.95.) The former New Jersey governor comes out.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Oct. 7, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interestDEAN ACHESON: A Life in the Cold War, by Robert L. Beisner. (Oxford University, $35.) A biography of the secretary of state who guided postwar America's global engagement.
 THE DISCOMFORT ZONE: A Personal History, by Jonathan Franzen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) Essays by the author of ''The Corrections'' focus on formative experiences of his youth.
 MORAL DISORDER: Stories, by Margaret Atwood. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.) Atwood's latest collection seems circumscribed by lived, rather than imagined, experience.
 THE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL, by Chris Adrian. (McSweeney's, $24.) Angels guide the only survivors of a global flood in this magic realist novel. 
 BEDLAM, by Greg Hollingshead. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) A historical novel about a struggle to free an inmate from a London asylum and to discover how he got there. 
 BLACK GIRL/WHITE GIRL, by Joyce Carol Oates. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.95.) The white girl of Oates's title tries to reconstruct the brutal death of her black college roommate in the 1970's. 
 THROUGH THE CHILDREN'S GATE: A Home in New York, by Adam Gopnik. (Knopf, $25.) ''Comic-sentimental'' essays about the city and family life by the author of ''Paris to the Moon.''
 THANKSGIVING NIGHT, by Richard Bausch. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) An insular small-town family lies at the heart of this generous novel.
 QUEEN OF FASHION: What Marie Antoinette Wore to the Revolution, by Caroline Weber. (Holt, $27.50.) Weber suggests that the queen miscalculated in dressing to project an image of power.
 LOVE AND LOUIS XIV: The Women in the Life of the Sun King, by Antonia Fraser. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $32.50.) This coital history of Louis's court examines the king's ''variegated philanderings'' and delineates his mistresses. 
 THE LIFE AND TIMES OF THE THUNDERBOLT KID: A Memoir, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A humorist's evocation of growing up happy in Des Moines in the strange normality of the 1950's.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (85%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); SCANDALS (74%); JURY TRIALS (71%); NASCAR RACING (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: MITCH ALBOM (73%); JAMES PATTERSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



534 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye, Toaster. Hello, Free Stock Trades.

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
NOTHING grabs a customer's attention quite like the word ''free.'' So when Bank of America announced an offer this month for free online stock trades, investors with accounts elsewhere sat up and paid attention. But they may want to examine what the offer entails -- and compare it with what's available elsewhere -- before making a leap.
 For one thing, the deal may end up bolstering deposits at the traditional bank, more than driving business to the company's online brokerage firm. Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., owns both the bank of that name and Banc of America Investment Services, its brokerage arm.
Bill Doyle, an analyst at Forrester Research, noted that the $25,000 minimum deposit that is required to qualify for free trades must be kept in traditional federally insured bank accounts -- like checking, savings, money markets and certificates of deposit. (These can be held in either taxable or retirement accounts.) The balance in brokerage accounts does not count toward the $25,000. 
 ''They've found a better toaster,'' Mr. Doyle said, referring to typical bank giveaways in bygone years.
 Depending on your finances, $25,000 may be too much to park in cash accounts. Many financial planners advise people who are in the middle of their income-earning years to keep 10 to 20 percent of their portfolio in cash. 
 But personal finances are, well, personal. People who are already in retirement, or who have predictable near-term costs like college tuition, might keep more than 20 percent of their money in C.D.'s.
 Under the Bank of America offer, if your combined deposits dip below $25,000, you would revert to basic rates for online trading. Bank of America already charges its banking customers relatively little for online stock trades: $5 to $10, depending on the type of bank account. That compares with $14 for online brokerage customers who don't also bank there. Online stock trades at $5 to $10 are competitive with rates offered by discount online brokers like E*Trade and TD Ameritrade.
 The bank's offer is available immediately in the Northeast and will be rolled out nationwide by next spring. If keeping $25,000 in cash seems reasonable to you, the next step would be to examine the fine print and compare it with the competition's.
 To begin with, Bank of America is allowing 30 free trades a month, but that applies only to orders that are entered on its Web site for stocks and exchange-traded funds. There is a charge to buy bonds or options online, or to place stock trades over the phone.
 If you buy mostly stocks and E.T.F.'s -- and always enter the orders online -- the 30-trade rule will probably suit you just fine. Only 4 percent of American investors trade more than 10 times a year, according to Forrester Research, a technology consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass.
 So if you trade 10 times a year, you could save $100 to $200 by switching from your current online broker. If you have an account at TD Ameritrade, for example, you pay a flat $9.99 for an online stock trade, making for an easy comparison. In this case, the savings for 10 free trades a year would be $100.
 Some online brokers charge less than $9.99, but they have various rates based on a host of considerations, including the number of shares being traded, the amount of assets in the account and the frequency of trades.
 For example, Fidelity's cheapest rate for an online stock trade is $8. You can qualify for it with as little as $25,000 in assets -- but only if you trade at least 120 times a year. If you have $25,000 and trade at least 36 times a year, the cost is $10.95 a trade. Fidelity's top rate for online stock trades is $19.95. So if you don't qualify for one of its lower rates based on either the size of your account or the frequency of your trading patterns, you would save about $200 a year if you made 10 free trades at Bank of America, and maintained its deposit account minimum. 
 Of course, the cost of trading isn't everything. Some people stick with a particular brokerage firm because they prefer its Web site or the range and convenience of its mutual fund offerings. Bank of America's online brokerage firm offers investors 1,300 mutual funds that do not charge sales fees, but people who invest regularly in mutual funds may want to make sure that their favorite fund families are included.
 As for the Web sites' capabilities, Fidelity and Charles Schwab were both well-rated in an online investor customer survey last year by J. D. Power & Associates. TD Ameritrade and E*Trade were ranked somewhat lower, but the Web sites appear to be designed for different types of investors. While Fidelity's and Schwab's sites are geared more toward buy-and-hold investors, TD Ameritrade's and E*Trade's sites are aimed at frequent traders.
 Bank of America's brokerage Web site wasn't included in the rankings of the J. D. Power survey, because the sample size was too small, said James Lohmann, an analyst at J. D. Power. But he said that customers ranked Bank of America's brokerage site as about average for the industry. Currently, Bank of America's online brokerage customers have free access to research from Standard & Poor's, Argus Research, Briefing.com and Thomson Financial. 
 Finally, if you're not already banking at Bank of America and are thinking of moving your deposits from another bank, you should compare all the fees and services at the banks as well, said Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America, based in Washington. ''Don't be seduced by just one product,'' she said.
 For example, she advised bank customers to consider where they typically use automated teller machines, to determine if they might pay more or less in A.T.M. fees, and whether the interest rates might be higher or lower on their C.D.'s.
 SHE also reminded customers who keep their bank and brokerage accounts at one company to be prepared for cross-selling, the industry's term for marketing many different types of financial products and services to customers.
 ''Often when customers are given the trade-off between the convenience of one-stop shopping and the loss of privacy that goes with that, people will choose the convenience,'' Ms. Roper said. ''But they should factor in how comfortable they feel with all of that data gathered in one place, and recognize that it will be used for cross-marketing.''
 Bank of America executives say that they hope to make up for the losses from free stock trades by selling more mortgages and C.D.'s, and charging interest on margin accounts, the loans that brokers make to customers to buy stock.
 ''We are highly confident that this offer won't cost us, that it will be accretive from a revenue and earnings standpoint from the beginning,'' said Tim Maloney, the president of Banc of America Investment Services. ''Our own research has shown that a very high percentage of our customers would like to consolidate their financial affairs with fewer, or even with one provider.''
 Mr. Maloney said the offer had already accomplished something else he considers important. He said that when he demonstrated the company's online trading system this month in Bryant Park in Manhattan, ''many people remarked that they didn't know that Bank of America was in the investment business.'' After the buzz generated by the offer of free trades, he said, ''America knows that we're in the investment business.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Phil Marden)Chart: ''Online Brokerage Fees For Stock Trades''BANC OF AMERICA INVESTMENT SERVICES(COST PER TRADE: CONDITIONS)free: $25,000 in deposits with Bank of America$7: 31 trades a quarter and $25,000 in assets in brokerage account OR For other bank customers with some types of checking accounts$10: For other bank customers, with checking accounts that don't require minimum balances$14: For brokerage customers who don't bank with Bank of AmericaE*TRADE(COST PER TRADE: CONDITIONS)$6.99: 1,500 trades a quarter
no minimum assets$7.99: 150 to 1,499 trades a quarter
 no minimum assets$9.99: 30 to 149 trades a quarter OR $50,000 in assets with E*Trade$12.99*: For other customersFIDELITY(COST PER TRADE: CONDITIONS)$8**: 120 trades a year and $25,000 in household assets with Fidelity OR $1 million in household assets with Fidelity$10.95***: 36 trades a year and $25,000 in household assets with Fidelity OR $50,000 in household assets with Fidelity OR 72 trades a year$19.95***: For other customersCHARLES SCHWAB(COST PER TRADE: CONDITIONS)$9.95: 120 trades a year OR $1 million in household assets with Schwab$12.95***: For other customersTD AMERITRADE(COST PER TRADE: CONDITIONS)$9.99: For all account holders*Additional 1.5 cents is charged for each share of listed securities over 2,000.**Additional 0.5 cents a share is charged for orders placed outside normal trading hours, stocks priced under $1 for each share over 1,000, and other services.***Additional 1.5 cents is charged for each share over 1,000. This fee cwaived in the case of stocks under $1 at Schwab.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); ONLINE TRADING (89%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); BONDS (77%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (72%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); TUITION FEES (68%); WEB SITES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (94%); BANC OF AMERICA INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (70%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Banc of America Securities; E*trade Financial Corp; Fidelity Investments; Schwab, Charles, Corp; Td Ameritrade

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (94%); BAC (LSE) (94%); 8648 (TSE) (94%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); AMTD (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



535 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL DOMAIN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Who You Know. It's Where You Are.

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS. 
Randall Stross is an author based in Silicon Valley and a professor of business at San Jose State University. E-mail: digitaldomain@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FIBER networks cross the world. Data bits move at light speed. The globe has been flattened, and national boundaries obliterated. Yet in Silicon Valley, the one place that is responsible more than any other for creating the network technology that supposedly renders geography irrelevant, physical distance is very much on the minds of the investors who provide venture capital.
 Meet the ''20-minute rule'' that guides fateful decisions in Silicon Valley. Craig Johnson, managing director of Concept2Company Ventures, a venture capital firm in Palo Alto, Calif., who has 30 years of experience in early-stage financings, said he knew many venture capitalists who adhered to this doctrine: if a start-up company seeking venture capital is not within a 20-minute drive of the venture firm's offices, it will not be funded.
Mr. Johnson explained that close proximity permits the investor to provide in-person guidance; initially, that may entail many meetings each week before investor and entrepreneur come to know each other well enough to rely mostly on the phone for updates. Those initial interactions are fateful. ''Starting a company is like launching a rocket,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''If you're a tenth of a degree off at launch, you may be 1,000 miles off downrange.'' 
 Capital and attention are lavished on entrepreneurs in the Valley as in no other place. Ten years ago, when Dow Jones VentureOne began a quarterly survey of where venture investments landed, one-third of all deals in the country went to the San Francisco Bay Area. Since then, the same share of deals has gone to the same place, almost without variation. Most recently, in the first six months of this year, Silicon Valley still pulled in 32 percent; the region with the second-largest total, New England, was far behind, at 10 percent.
 The latest wave of innovation, embodied in Web 2.0 companies, is centered in Silicon Valley. Joshua Grove, a research analyst at VentureOne, said that 43 percent of Web 2.0 deals this year were in the Bay Area, the formal category for the Valley. These included three of the four largest financings: the $25 million that went to Facebook, $14.5 million to Zimbra and $12 million to Six Apart.
 How well is the Valley doing in incubating this newest crop of start-ups? Ask the investors at YouTube, who are celebrating Google's $1.65 billion deal for a company that was all of 19 months old. Or look at Google's own record of growth: building a market capitalization of $141 billion in only eight years.
 YouTube and Google share the same source of venture financing: Sequoia Capital, situated among the venture capital firms clustered in a handful of blocks in office parks along Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, near the Stanford campus. Google's other source of venture capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, is nearby, too. 
 Why so many of these firms, which form the world's most concentrated source of capital for new ventures, originally collected in that particular spot, rather than, say, outside the Massachusetts Institute of Technology or the California Institute of Technology, is not important; what is important is that this is where they happen to be today. 
 Sequoia makes its preference for the 20-minute rule almost explicit, telling applicants whose companies are at the ''seed stage'' (receiving less than $1 million) or ''early stage'' ($1 million to $10 million) that ''it is helpful if the company is close to our offices'' because they ''require very frequent contact.''
 Kleiner Perkins has only one office, the one in Menlo Park. Sequoia has reached out to entrepreneurs more considerately, providing five offices. But only one of the five, the one in Menlo Park, is in the United States. The others are in China (two), India and Israel. 
 If you have a brilliant idea for the New New Thing and want Sequoia to provide its funds and blessing -- using the same golden touch provided not long ago to Google's founders -- you would be much better off in Beijing, where Sequoia has an office, than in Boston, where it does not.
 It's convenient for venture capitalists to have entrepreneurs close by, but the reverse is true, too, said Allen Morgan, a managing director of the Mayfield Fund, which manages $2.3 billion in venture capital and is also on Sand Hill Road. Mr. Morgan made the case by pointing out that a prospective entrepreneur would, on average, need to have three to eight meetings with a venture fund before he or she was successful, but would have to go through a similar process with 5 to 10 firms before finding the one that approved the funding request. 
 Even if the process goes smoothly and requires only 15 meetings -- the fewest possible, given the lowest range of possibilities -- and even if most of those meetings are set up in advance, the time consumed in getting to Sand Hill Road, even using local highways, can be significant. The problem is that much worse when, as often happens, a meeting is called with just an hour or two of notice. ''If you live in Santa Clara, it's doable,'' Mr. Morgan said. ''If you live in Dubuque, it's not.''
 Entrepreneurs who live in Silicon Valley also find the technical talent they need faster than they can in any other place; they pay more for that talent, but speed is the sine qua non for success. Seth J. Sternberg, the chief executive of Meebo, an instant-messaging company in Palo Alto that is backed by Sequoia, described Silicon Valley with the fervent appreciation of a recent transplant from New York, where he had suffered three separate bad experiences with start-ups, none of which had attracted venture funding. 
 The ecosystem in Silicon Valley, Mr. Sternberg said, includes ''incredible techies, who live here because this is the epicenter, where they can find the most interesting projects to work on.'' The ecosystem also includes real estate agents, accountants, head hunters and lawyers who understand an entrepreneur's situation -- that is, emptied bank accounts and maxed-out credit cards.
 ''In New York, it would be extremely difficult to find a law firm willing to defer the first $20,000 of your legal fees,'' Mr. Sternberg said. ''Here, we got that. It's a pretty standard thing in Silicon Valley.''
 On the East Coast, a business plan contest at the Harvard Business School in 2004 prompted one M.B.A. graduate, Arijit Sengupta, to found BeyondCore, a software company, in his apartment in Boston. Mr. Sengupta, who earlier had earned a bachelor's degree in computer science and economics at Stanford, was determined to develop a finished product and to acquire customers by the oldest method of all: bootstrapping, or starting a business without outside capital.
 He did end up needing Silicon Valley for something else: technical talent that would be willing to accept equity in place of any salary. Six weeks ago, he moved to Silicon Valley to recruit more people like his chief technical officer, who has been working full time since Jan. 1 for equity only. 
 ''Elsewhere, if people in a large organization think you have potential, they offer you a job, trying to save you from the uncertainties of a start-up,'' said Mr. Sengupta, who himself has worked at Oracle, Microsoft and General Motors. ''In Silicon Valley, they say, 'Can I join you?' ''
 Mr. Sengupta now has six ''employees'' working for BeyondCore without salaries. Only in Silicon Valley, he said, do ''people have confidence that if you act on great ideas, the money will come.''
 Predictions of the Valley's demise have become a perennial, said Mr. Morgan, the Mayfield venture capitalist. ''Every five years, Time or Newsweek runs a story: 'Silicon Valley is Dead,' '' he said. ''But Silicon Valley is bigger and more vibrant and better at creating companies than it has ever been.''
 Silicon Valley is not ''bigger'' in a literal sense. In fact, it remains geographically contained by the Santa Cruz Mountains on one side and San Francisco Bay on the other. The physical features of the place help explain the Valley's vitality.
 MR. JOHNSON, the venture capitalist in Palo Alto, noted that the greater Los Angeles area also has a pool of talented engineers (working at aerospace companies like Lockheed, Northrop and Hughes) and great universities (notably Caltech and U.C.L.A.) and plenty of money to invest. ''But in Los Angeles,'' he said, ''people are scattered across a wide area; everything is more spread out.'' 
 It's harder for entrepreneurs to meet with one another and with investors, he added. And that means connections take longer, deals move slowly, fewer companies are formed. ''Like a gas, entrepreneurship is hotter when compressed.'' he said.
 Why, one might ask, must relationships be built only by physical presence? Why, if the phone does not serve well, cannot the newest generation of videoconferencing gear -- which provides stunning video to accompany sound -- save the various participants from the vexations of getting together in person?
 Mr. Morgan of Mayfield scoffed at the suggestion of virtual meetings as a feasible medium of establishing trust in business. He said that if the matter were important -- and human beings were involved -- he believed that there would never, ever be a replacement for face-to-face meetings.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by James O'Brien)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STARTUPS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WEB 2 (85%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (68%) Computers and the Internet; Venture Capital ; Finances; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (52%); SEQUOIA CAPITAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Ventureone Corp; Facebook; Zimbra Inc; Apart (Co); Youtube; Google Inc; Sequoia Capital; Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: JAMES J O'BRIEN (55%) Randall Stross; Joshua Grove

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



536 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank: October 16-20; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: A Bouncing Dow Ends the Week Above 12,000 

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average broke through the 12,000 barrier last week and despite some up-and-down days, it closed on Friday in that higher altitude. 
 The Dow first crossed 12,000 on Wednesday, soaring as high as 12,049.51 before dropping, and on Thursday it closed above 12,000 for the first time. The market fell early on Friday, but an afternoon rally pulled the Dow back over 12,000 by the close.
Caterpillar, the maker of earth-moving equipment, was the worst weekly performer in the Dow, falling 14.6 percent. On Friday, it said its sales would drop because of an economic slowdown. Johnson & Johnson, the health care company, gained 6.3 percent for the week, the best in the Dow.
 For the week, the Dow gained 41.86 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 12,002.37. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.98 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 1,368.60. 
 The Nasdaq composite index lost 14.99 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 2,342.30. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.79 percent from 4.80 percent the previous week. 
 In New York, a barrel of crude oil fell to $56.82 on Friday, its lowest level this year. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Apple ComputerNNM: AAPLThe computer maker reported a 27 percent increase in quarterly profit on strong back-to-school Mac and iPod sales. Profit was 62 cents a share
 analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected 51 cents.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $79.95WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.57%EST. '06 P/E: 29.49Oshkosh TruckNYSE: OSKThe maker of military and commercial vehicles said it would acquire JLG Industries, a manufacturer of aerial work platforms and booms, for about $3 billion in cash.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.81WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.32%EST. '06 P/E: 17.60UnitedHealthNYSE: UNHThe insurer reported that its chief, William W. McGuire, under scrutiny over stock options, would step down by Dec. 1. It also said its quarterly net climbed to 79 cents a share, beating analysts' expectations by 3 cents.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $50.70WEEK'S CHANGEL: +4.00%EST. '06 P/E: 17.16GoogleNNM: GOOGShares of the Web media company jumped after it said that profit almost doubled and revenue rose 70 percent in the third quarter, widening its lead over Yahoo.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $459.67WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.58%EST. '06 P/E: 46.08Advanced MicroDevicesNYSE: AMDThe maker of computer chips said its profit margin narrowed by more than 5 percentage points in the quarter, following price cuts and new products from its rival Intel.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $20.12WEEK'S CHANGE: -20.25%EST. '06 P/E: 17.76Dell ComputerNNM: DELLShares slid after Hewlett-Packard reclaimed the title of world's biggest personal-computer maker, according to Gartner, the research firm. Dell's shipments grew 3.6 percent in the third quarter, Gartner said.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $23.54WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.71%EST. '06 P/E: 21.84Merrill LynchNYSE: MERThe brokerage firm reported that its third-quarter profit more than doubled on strong trading revenue and a one-time gain from its deal to sell a unit to the money manager BlackRock.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $84.18WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.69%EST. '06 P/E: 12.54CaterpillarNYSE: CATThe maker of construction equipment said third-quarter profit rose less than analysts had forecast. It predicted that sales would weaken next year, citing a slowdown in the economy.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $59.00WEEK'S CHANGE: -14.59%EST. '06 P/E: 10.70(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (55%); HEALTH CARE (54%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (70%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (70%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



537 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Wealthy Coal Executive Hopes to Turn Democratic West Virginia Republican 

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, W.Va. 

 BODY:
Don L. Blankenship is not the governor of West Virginia. But here in coal country some say he may as well be, considering the power he wields.
 Mr. Blankenship, the chief executive of the state's largest coal producer, Massey Energy, has promised to spend ''whatever it takes'' to help win a majority in the State Legislature for the long-beleaguered Republican Party in a state that is a Democratic and labor stronghold.
In a state where candidates who win typically spend less than $20,000, Mr. Blankenship has poured more than $6 million into political initiatives and local races over the past three years. Mr. Blankenship has spent at least $700,000 in his current effort to oust Democrats, and the state is awash with lawn signs, highway billboards, radio advertisements and field organizers paid for by him. 
 ''Don Blankenship would actually be less powerful if he were in elected office,'' said United States Representative Nick J. Rahall II, a Democrat whose district includes a majority of Massey's coal mines. ''He would be twice as accountable and half as feared.'' 
 Rather than bankroll his own political ambitions, as have businessmen like Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, Mr. Blankenship has exerted his financial clout in the mold of Warren Buffett and George Soros, choosing issues and candidates in line with his partisan philosophy.
 Union leaders say Mr. Blankenship, 56, is the main reason that less than a quarter of the state's coal miners are now organized, down from about 95 percent just three decades ago. And environmentalists describe him as the biggest force behind a highly destructive form of mining called mountaintop removal that involves using explosives to blow off the tops of mountains to reach coal seams.
 Local Republicans admiringly say that Mr. Blankenship combines the strategic savvy of Karl Rove, the White House adviser, and the fund-raising skill of Richard Mellon Scaife, the conservative financier. Mr. Blankenship personally oversees his media campaigns; he writes advertisements and designs polls, and speaks on talk radio more than the chairman of the state Republican Party.
 ''This has never been an easy state for Republicans,'' said the party chairman, Doug McKinney, seated in his party's headquarters, a dank cinder-block building in Charleston bought in 2002, half of it paid for with a $100,000 donation from Massey Energy. ''But finally this state is at a tipping point, and Don is a big reason for that.''
 In 2004, Mr. Blankenship financed a $3.5 million campaign that catapulted a little-known lawyer, Brent D. Benjamin, who barely won the Republican primary, onto the public stage as the first Republican to serve on the state's Supreme Court.
 In 2005, Mr. Blankenship spent $650,000 to deal Gov. Joe Manchin III, a Democrat, the most significant defeat of his tenure by blocking a plan to use bonds to shore up the state's under-financed employee pension plan. 
 George W. Bush won West Virginia in 2000, the first time since 1928 that voters backed a nonincumbent Republican for president. Mr. Bush won the state again in 2004, and in the past several years, a large number of Republicans have moved into the state's eastern panhandle, mostly from Virginia.
 In 2002, Republicans picked up 11 seats in the House of Delegates (but are still in the minority), and local political analysts say it is possible, though a long shot, that the Republicans will pick up the additional 18 House seats they need to control the Legislature in November. The Democrats retain a strong majority in the Senate. 
 ''Don is really the linchpin of it all,'' said Gary Abernathy, a consultant for the state Republican Party. 
 Mr. Blankenship, who declined to be interviewed for this article, told a gathering of Republicans last year in his famously blunt and monotone delivery that it ''doesn't take clairvoyance to know what we need to do'' in West Virginia. 
 ''If you go down to Virginia and copy the law book and write 'West' in front of it, you would clearly have a more prosperous economy, a better education system and you'd have a better state. It's that simple,'' he said, referring to Virginia, which is deeply Republican and has more pro-business laws than West Virginia.
 The first step in that mission, said Cecil E. Roberts, president of the United Mine Workers of America, has been to oppose unions fervently in the state. ''From the first day he could, Don began busting unions,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''He was pretty effective at that, so now Don is trying to extend his reach across the state in politics.'' 
 Raised just up the road from Matewan, the scene of an epic 1921 strike, Mr. Blankenship keeps a reminder of his anti-union beliefs in the back of his office. In 1985, Massey broke from the industry and insisted that miners at each site negotiate separately with the company. During the 11-month strike that resulted, someone shot through Mr. Blankenship's office window. The old Zenith television whose screen was shattered by the bullet still sits not far from his desk.
 After graduating with an accounting degree from Marshall University in Huntington, Mr. Blankenship worked at several companies before becoming a manager in 1982 at Massey, the fourth largest coal producer in the United States. Eight years later, he became the first non-Massey family member to serve as president of the company.
 Mr. Blankenship, who received about $34 million in compensation last year (roughly four times the industry standard) runs the company from a double-wide trailer just across the state line in Belfry, Ky. In April, Mr. Blankenship's personal housekeeper filed a lawsuit seeking unemployment benefits in which she accused him of responding with angry fits to infractions like getting the wrong McDonald's order or stocking the freezer with the wrong ice cream. After the disasters at the Aracoma Alma Mine, which Massey owns, and the Sago Mine, in which a total of 14 miners were killed, Mr. Blankenship drew sharp criticism after he told The Herald-Mail of Hagerstown, Md., that such accidents were rare and statistically insignificant.
 E. Morgan Massey, the company's former chief executive and an admirer of Mr. Blankenship's, said that while the criticism he faced as C.E.O. was that he was ''too paternalistic,'' Mr. Blankenship had been viewed differently.
 ''Let's just say Don is the other way entirely,'' Mr. Massey said. Mr. Blankenship has also been faulted for his company's environmental record. Massey has had more toxic spills of coal waste than any other company in the state, and from January 2000 to December 2005, it received 4,268 citations from state regulators. The next closest company received fewer than 800. A Massey spokeswoman responded by pointing out that Massey is the largest coal producer in the state.
 One of Mr. Blankenship's biggest concerns, especially after Massey lost a $50 million jury verdict in August 2002 for having forced a smaller company out of business, has been ''plaintiff-friendly courts'' that he says have made West Virginia an expensive place to do business. 
 At the same time, Mr. Blankenship has not been shy about using the courts to deal with his adversaries. In the past several years he has sued the governor, the United Mine Workers union, the state Supreme Court, and The Charleston Gazette, the state's largest newspaper.
 Governor Manchin said he tried not to pay Mr. Blankenship any mind. 
 ''I know Don writes a lot of checks,'' Mr. Manchin said. ''At this point, I'm just sticking with the issues and reminding voters of the successes we've had with help from the Legislature. I'm not paying attention to Don.''
 The state Democratic Party, however, is taking the opposite approach. It is distributing bumper stickers saying, ''Don, WV is not for sale,'' and has set up a Web site listing controversial comments from Mr. Blankenship. The party has sent letters to Republican candidates pressing them to give back Mr. Blankenship's contributions; so far, two candidates have done so. 
 The Democratic-controlled Legislature has also tried to rein in Mr. Blankenship's influence.
 Last year in response to Mr. Blankenship's impact on the Supreme Court race in 2004, lawmakers passed a campaign-finance law capping at $1,000 how much an individual can give to so-called 527 groups like the one Mr. Blankenship used to influence that race. 
 However, individuals still can spend unlimited sums of their own money on campaign advertisements, and that is just what Mr. Blankenship has said he plans to do.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Don L. Blankenship, C.E.O. of Massey Energy, has put more than $6 million into campaigns favoring Republican interests in West Virginia. (Photo by Jeff Gentner/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COAL MINING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); SURFACE MINING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MINE WORKERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Elections; Election Issues; Finances; Organized Labor; Legislatures and Parliaments; Coal; Mines and Mining

COMPANY: MASSEY ENERGY CO (92%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Massey Energy Co

TICKER: FLR (FRA) (92%); ANR (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%)

PERSON: DON L BLANKENSHIP (94%); JON CORZINE (58%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); NICK J RAHALL II (56%); KARL ROVE (56%); GEORGE SOROS (54%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%) Ian Urbina; Don L Blankenship

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (92%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) West Virginia; West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



538 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-22-06: PHENOMENON; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: Radioactive Nationalism

BYLINE: By Peter Maass. 
Peter Maass, a contributing writer, formerly reported from South Korea for The Washington Post.

 BODY:
In a classic Mexican standoff, two men point guns at each other's heads. Neither wants to shoot, but each knows the downside of not pulling the trigger first. It is an inherently gripping situation, and Quentin Tarantino's ''Reservoir Dogs'' offers one of the most memorable examples: in a climactic scene that takes place in a warehouse, three men aim guns at one another, with catastrophe (for macabre laughs) just a twitch away.
We can now thank North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, who is credited with directing several movies, for creating a Mexican standoff that outdoes Tarantino but is no postmodern parody; it takes place in the real world. Earlier this month, North Korea announced that it had exploded an atomic bomb, thus becoming the newest and scariest nuclear power in the world. This set off alarms in South Korea, Japan, China, Russia and the United States; all have good reasons to fear North Korea and one another. We now have a Mexican standoff that involves a) as many as six participants, including b) countries that are threatening one another with c) nuclear weapons. Tarantino couldn't invent it. 
 Yet something -- someone -- is missing from this semi-apocalyptic drama. Warming his hands over a fire in north Waziristan or wherever, Osama bin Laden, the embodiment of evil in our times, is no more a factor than John Dillinger. True, there are fears that North Korea might try to sell a nuke to Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups. But diplomats are just as concerned that Japan might choose to build a nuclear weapon or two, that South Korea would be tempted to do the same, that China, Russia and the United States will shove against one another and that in the Middle East, Iran will accelerate its nuclear program, leading Saudi Arabia and Egypt to Google ''how to build the bomb.'' 
 What's happening, in other words, is an old-fashioned clash of nations and national interests, exacerbated, as often happens, by the imperatives of regime survival. The suspicions and alliances date back a century or more, though the weaponry, instead of muskets and catapults, is nuclear. After 9/11, we came to believe that the menace that mattered most was the wrath of religious terror, and our geopolitical lingua franca embraced a new vocabulary to define it -- jihad, suicide bombers, asymmetric warfare, nonstate actors. Whatever happened to nationalism and the risky maneuverings of states? Nothing, actually. Kim Jong Il, entering from stage far-left, reminds us that new threats, like Islamic extremism, do not replace old ones.
 The Korean peninsula is an ancient hothouse for nationalism and its offshoots; it is also a brilliant example of the uses, abuses and durability of national esteem. The peninsula is sandwiched between China and Japan, which are two of the great powers of modern and not-so-modern history; without their pride and willingness to sacrifice for a common goal, Koreans would speak Japanese or Chinese today. Defiantly, through a millennium or two of attack and occupation, they held on to their language and even their gene pool. When I lived in Seoul in the 1980's, intermarriage, to a Japanese or an American or whomever, was rare and an occasion for scorn or, at best, pity. The taboos are lessening -- earlier this year, the government lifted a ban against mixed-race Koreans serving in the military -- but as a recent article in The Asia Times noted, ''A foreigner, even another Asian, stands out.'' More so on the other side of the DMZ: not long ago, a North Korean general chastised South Korea for even allowing intermarriage.
 The Korean peninsula was divided into American and Russian zones after World War II -- Japan had ruled Korea brutally for nearly a half-century -- and was then reduced to cinders by the Korean War. The resurrection of North and South was stunning because they started from utter scratch and without a blueprint or Marshall Plan. Both governments drummed into their people that unless they worked hard and prepared to fight hard, they would be overrun and subjugated by their brother enemies. Each side wanted to prove itself as the true carrier of the Korean torch. The peninsula's division and war was akin to the splitting of a highly charged nationalist atom that unleashed an explosion of directed energy.
 The cross-border rivalry provided material not just for political experts but also for Freudian analysts. In addition to postwar spasms of violence -- like several attempts by northern assassins to kill South Korea's leaders -- the one-upmanship reached the absurd. American soldiers at Panmunjom, the truce village, entertain visitors with a story of how, at the outset of armistice talks in the 1950's, delegations from North and South brought in larger and larger national flags -- each side wanted its totem to be the biggest. Eventually, the flags were too large to fit through the doors; physics rather than good sense forced them to agree to modest and identically sized flags.
 My three-year sojourn in South Korea was punctuated with iterations of nationalist fervor, some of them charming. There was, in those days, a club that supported Koreans training for stunts that would get them into The Guinness Book of World Records; if memory serves, one hopeful was a man who walked up mountains on his hands. The club's aim wasn't just to help zealous citizens get into the holy book, but to have South Korea itself inscribed as the country with the most world records. This wasn't entirely removed, in its linking of nationalist glory and athletic achievement, from East Germany's effort to legitimize itself, and trump its brother state, by becoming an Olympic power, even if that required doping a generation of athletes (which it did). 
 Today, even though it has a highly advanced economy -- more than 80 percent of South Koreans have broadband Internet access at home, the highest rate in the world -- the country has a nearly provincial relationship to its local heroes, like Ban Ki-moon, the foreign minister who will be the next U.N. secretary general. The most famous South Korean of recent times was Hwang Woo Suk, a scientist who in 2004 and 2005 announced breakthroughs in cloning. At home, he was worshiped, a hybrid of Einstein and Madonna. The government awarded him the title Supreme Scientist and gave him millions of dollars. The embrace was so intense that when a television news program reported on unethical conduct in Hwang's lab, the program's sponsors withdrew their ads and the show was temporarily taken off the air. The reporting was accurate -- Hwang faked his research. The awards were withdrawn, prosecutors charged him with embezzlement -- yet even so, supporters staged rallies, and a Web site in his honor pleads, ''Please come back, Dr. Hwang.''
 In North Korea, nationalism has taken a different course and been put to different uses by a tyranny that exports counterfeit dollars and has been described, with amusing accuracy, as a ''Soprano state,'' after the Mafia family in the HBO series. But until the 1970's, when it began to be hollowed out because of the inherent contradictions of command economics, North Korea was more industrialized and prosperous than South Korea. It has always, and proudly, had the upper hand in a key nationalistic category -- foreign troops are not based on its soil. When I visited Pyongyang in 1989 (a long time ago, but North Korea's cryonic rhetoric has changed little in half a century), officials I met were obsessed by two things: the threat posed by American troops on their doorstep and SouthKorea's cowardly acceptance of these foreigners. It was not unlike, I now realize, the religious fervor with which Islamic conservatives criticized the presence of American troops in Saudi Arabia and the cowardly royal family that welcomed them (when Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990).
 The decades-long rotting of North Korea's economy, and thus the erosion of its military power, was a key reason to develop nuclear weapons: nukes are a poor man's defense, cheaper to build and maintain than an army, and a guarantee that you will not be invaded because the stakes are cataclysmic. North Korea's million-man army is poorly equipped and poorly trained, and no match for the smaller but more sophisticated South Korean military, which is augmented by 28,000 G.I.'s on the ground and additional U.S. forces that would come to South Korea's aid if attacked. Nukes are also a great way, if you lead a small, hopelessly poor and violently repressed nation, to get the attention of the rest of the world; rather than being treated like Albania, North Korea will be treated like Albania with nukes. The government's English-language announcement boasted that its test came ''at a stirring time when all the people of the country are making a great leap forward in the building of a great prosperous powerful socialist nation.'' This nationalist, and deluded, phrase was in the first sentence.
 Because nationalism is more of a collective belief than a particular policy, the positions adopted in its name can evolve, even rotate. Inter-Korean hostility subsided as a result of the ''sunshine policy'' initiated by former President Kim Dae-jung, who dropped the stance of utter hostility taken by the conservative generals who ruled South Korea from the 1960's until the 1990's. The same national pride that set North and South against each other can also create common ties. Now, instead of regarding the North as a violently psychotic regime, the southern attitude is more along the indulgent yet exasperated lines of ''Oh, no, what's our nutty brother done today?'' Particularly among South Koreans with no memories of the Korean War -- that's now most of the country -- yearnings for peace and good relations, as well as anti-Americanism, are stronger than the hostile anti-Communist intent of their fathers and grandfathers. And in the wake of Germany's costly unification, policy makers in Seoul realize that the collapse of the North, which an older generation wished for, would create a high degree of political instability and an enormous financial burden that should perhaps be avoided. This helps explain why Seoul has limited its antinuclear criticism of the North, and why South Koreans aren't rushing for bomb shelters quite yet.
 One factor bringing the Koreas together is their shared enmity for Japan. North Korea's tirades against Tokyo are nearly unprintable; the South Koreans are more polite but fervently resolute whenever their prestige is challenged by Japan. In the mid-1990's, when FIFA, the international soccer organization, decided to hold the 2002 World Cup in Asia for the first time, the host-country finalists were South Korea and Japan. The competition was intense beyond belief; among other extravagances, Buddhist monks in Seoul prayed three times a day that their homeland would get the nod. In the end, recognizing that the humiliation of losing to an ancient rival would be too much for either side to bear, FIFA took the unusual step of splitting hosting duties between the two countries. Even then, naming the event was problematic; FIFA called it ''World Cup 2002 KoreaJapan,'' but when Japan printed its tickets, the geographic reference was deleted because Korea came first.
 More than any other country, Japan feels threatened by North Korea's nuclear capacities. The brutality of the Japanese occupation of parts of China and all of Korea has not been forgotten in the region nor fully apologized for. The sexual slavery of Korean women during World War II remains an issue the Japanese avoid rather than accept full responsibility for. Of course Japan is linked to China and South Korea in good ways -- they are major trading partners, and Japan has been an important source of loans and investment. None want to go to war, and one triumph of the nation-state system is that it is not a suicide pact, though neither is it a foolproof way to keep the peace.
 If this sounds familiar -- history shaped by the rivalries, interests and missteps of nations rather than terrorists dashing from hideout to hideout -- it should. It's the way the world has been ordered and disordered since the emergence of the nation-state and even before, and it did not vanish on Sept. 11, 2001. If anything, traditional powers that kept to themselves in past years are asserting themselves in new ways. Because of an influx of funds for its oil and gas, the Russia of Vladimir Putin is far more aggressive than the shipwreck presided over by Boris Yeltsin. The fast growth of China's economy has increased its appetites for not just greater political clout but also for resources with which to feed its bustling industries. And of course there is Iran, which has not forgotten its Persian history and would not mind recapturing, by becoming a nuclear state, the influence it once had.
 In the 19th century, Britain and Russia struggled for control of Central Asia in what was called ''the Great Game.'' In the 21st century, the great game is far more complex, taking place across the globe between an expanding number of actors with a multiplicity of interests and a variety of weapons. Yet certain basic facts -- war is an extension of politics, politics are often driven by a need for resources as well as collective feelings of pride or shame -- remain much the same in the wake of Sept. 11. We are obliged to focus on Islamism and the terrorist threat it has produced, to study Arabic and the work of Sayyid Qutb, but we should not fail to consult Kennan, Clausewitz or Thucydides either.


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Christopher Morris
VII/Time)
 The Line That Divides: A photographic rendering by Atta Kim of the DMZ, from South Korea looking north, from his series ''DMZ: 8 Hours, 2003.'' (Photograph by Atta Kim/Yossi Milo Ggallery

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); AL-QAEDA (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); RELIGION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CHINA (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



539 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 10010 words

HEADLINE: In the Land of the Taliban

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Rubin. 
Elizabeth Rubin, a contributing writer for the magazine, has reported extensively about Afghanistan. Her last article from the region was about the October 2005 Afghan elections.

 BODY:
One afternoon this past summer, I shared a picnic of fresh mangos and plums with Abdul Baqi, an Afghan Taliban fighter in his 20's fresh from the front in Helmand Province in southern Afghanistan. We spent hours on a grassy slope under the tall pines of Murree, a former colonial hill station that is now a popular resort just outside Pakistan's capital, Islamabad. All around us was a Pakistani rendition of Georges Seurat's ''Sunday on La Grande Jatte'' -- middle-class families setting up grills for barbecue, a girl and two boys chasing their errant cow with a stick, two men hunting fowl, boys flying a kite. Much of the time, Abdul Baqi was engrossed in the flight pattern of a Himalayan bird. It must have been a welcome distraction. He had just lost five friends fighting British troops and had seen many others killed or wounded by bombs as they sheltered inside a mosque. 
He was now looking forward to taking a logic course at a madrasa, or religious school, near Peshawar during his holiday. Pakistan's religious parties, he told me through an interpreter, would lodge him, as they did other Afghan Taliban fighters, and keep him safe. With us was Abdul Baqi's mentor, Mullah Sadiq, a diabetic Helmandi who was shuttling between Pakistan and Afghanistan auditing Taliban finances and arranging logistics. He had just dispatched nine fighters to Afghanistan and had taken wounded men to a hospital in Islamabad. ''I just tell the border guards that they were wounded in a tribal dispute and need treatment,'' he told me. 
 And though Mullah Sadiq said they had lost many commanders in battles around Kandahar, he and Abdul Baqi appeared to be in good spirits, laughing and chatting loudly on a cellphone to Taliban friends in Pakistan and Afghanistan. After all, they never imagined that the Taliban would be back so soon or in such force or that they would be giving such trouble to the Afghan government of Hamid Karzai and some 40,000 NATO and U.S. troops in the country. For the first time since the fall of 2001, when the Taliban were overthrown, they were beginning to taste the possibility of victory. 
 As I traveled through Pakistan and particularly the Pashtun lands bordering Afghanistan, I felt as if I were moving through a Taliban spa for rehabilitation and inspiration. Since 2002, the American and Pakistani militaries have focused on North Waziristan and South Waziristan, two of the seven districts making up Pakistan's semiautonomous tribal areas, which are between the North-West Frontier Province and, to the south, Baluchistan Province; in the days since the 9/11 attacks, some tribes there had sheltered members of Al Qaeda and spawned their own Taliban movement. Meanwhile, in the deserts of Baluchistan, whose capital, Quetta, is just a few hours' drive from the Afghan city of Kandahar, the Afghan Taliban were openly reassembling themselves under Mullah Omar and his leadership council. Quetta had become a kind of free zone where strategies could be formed, funds picked up, interviews given and victories relished.
 In June, I was in Quetta as the Taliban fighters celebrated an attack against Dad Mohammad Khan, an Afghan legislator locally known as Amir Dado. Until recently he was the intelligence chief of Helmand Province. He had worked closely with U.S. Special Forces and was despised by Abdul Baqi -- and, to be frank, by most Afghans in the south. Mullah Razayar Nurzai (a nom de guerre), a commander of 300 Taliban fighters who frequently meets with the leadership council and Mullah Omar, took credit for the ambush. Because Pakistan's intelligence services are fickle -- sometimes supporting the Taliban, sometimes arresting its members -- I had to meet Nurzai at night, down a dark lane in a village outside Quetta.
 My guide was a Pakistani Pashtun sympathetic to the Taliban; we slipped into a courtyard and behind a curtain into a small room with mattresses and a gas lamp. In hobbled a rough, wild-looking graybeard with green eyes and a prosthetic limb fitted into a permanent 1980's-era shoe. More than a quarter-century of warring had taken its toll on Nurzai's 46-year-old body but not on his spirit. It was 10 at night, yet he was bounding with energy and bombast about his recent exploits in Kandahar and Helmand. A few days earlier, Nurzai and his men had attacked Amir Dado's extended family. First, he told me, they shot dead his brother -- a former district leader. Then the next day, as members of Dado's family were driving to the site of the first attack, Nurzai's men ambushed their convoy. Boys, cousins, uncles: all were killed. Dado himself was safe elsewhere. Nurzai was mildly disappointed and said that they had received bad information. He had no regrets about the killings, however. Abdul Baqi was also delighted by the attack. He would tell me that Dado used to burn rocket casings and pour the melted plastic onto the stomachs of onetime Taliban fighters he and his men had captured. Abdul Baqi also recalled that during the civil war that ended with the Taliban's seizure of Kabul, Dado and his men had a checkpoint where they ''grabbed young boys and robbed people.''
 Mullah Omar and his followers formed the Taliban in 1994 to, among other things, bring some justice to Afghanistan and to expel predatory commanders like Dado. But in the early days of Karzai's government, these regional warlords re-established themselves, with American financing, to fill the power vacuum that the coalition forces were unwilling to fill themselves. The warlords freely labeled their many enemies Al Qaeda or Taliban in order to push the Americans to eradicate them. Some of these men were indeed Taliban. Most, like Abdul Baqi, had accepted their loss of power, but they rejoined the Taliban as a result of harassment. Amir Dado's own abuses had eventually led to his removal from the Helmand government at United Nations insistence. As one Western diplomat, who requested anonymity out of personal safety concerns, put it: ''Amir Dado kept his own prison, authorized the use of serious torture, had very little respect for human life and made security worse.'' Yet when I later met Amir Dado in Kabul, he pulled out a letter that an officer in the U.S. Special Forces had written requesting that the Afghan Ministry of Defense install him as Helmand's police chief and claiming that in his absence ''the quality of security in the Helmand Province has dramatically declined.''

One Place, Two Stories
 I went to Afghanistan and Pakistan this summer to understand how and why the Taliban were making a comeback five years after American and Afghan forces drove them from power. What kind of experience would lead Afghans to reject what seemed to be an emerging democratic government? Had we missed something that made Taliban rule appealing? Were they the only opposition the aggrieved could turn to? Or, as many Afghans were saying, was this Pakistan up to its old tricks -- cooperating with the Americans and Karzai while conspiring to bring back the Taliban, who had been valued ''assets'' before 9/11? 
 And why has the Bush administration's message remained that Afghanistan is a success, Iraq a challenge? ''In Afghanistan, the trajectory is a hopeful and promising one,'' Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld wrote on the op-ed page of The Washington Post earlier this month. Afghanistan's rise from the ashes of the anti-Taliban war would mean that the Bush administration was prevailing in replacing terror with democracy and human rights. 
 Meanwhile, a counternarrative was emerging, and it belonged to the Taliban, or the A.C.M., as NATO officers call them -- the Anti-Coalition Militia. In Kabul, Kandahar and Pakistan, I found their video discs and tapes in the markets. They invoke a nostalgia for the jihad against the Russians and inspire their viewers to rise up again. One begins with clattering Chinooks disgorging American soldiers into the desert. Then we see the new Afghan government onstage, focusing in on the Northern Alliance warlords -- Abdul Rashid Dostum, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Karim Khalili, Muhammad Fahim, Ismail Khan, Abdul Sayyaf. It cuts to American soldiers doing push-ups and pinpointing targets on maps; next it shows bombs the size of bathtubs dropping from planes and missiles emblazoned with ''Royal Navy'' rocketing through the sky; then it moves to hospital beds and wounded children. Message: America and Britain brought back the warlords and bombed your children. In the next clip, there are metal cages under floodlights and men in orange jumpsuits, bowed and crouching. It cuts back to the wild eyes of John Walker Lindh and shows trucks hauling containers crammed with young Afghan and Pakistani prisoners -- Taliban, hundreds of whom would suffocate to death in those containers, supposedly at the command of the warlord and current army chief of staff, General Dostum. Then back to American guards wheeling hunger-striking Guantanamo prisoners on gurneys. Interspliced are older images, a bit fuzzy, of young Afghan men, hands tied behind their backs, heads bowed, hauled off by Communist guards. The message: Foreigners have invaded our lands again; Americans, Russians -- no difference. 
 During the period from 1994 to 2001, the Taliban were a cloistered clique with little interest in global affairs. Today they are far more sophisticated and outward-looking. ''The Taliban of the 90's were concerned with their district or province,'' says Waheed Muzhda, a senior aide at the Supreme Court in Kabul, who before the Taliban fell worked in their Foreign Ministry. ''Now they have links with other networks. Before, only two Internet connections existed -- one was with Mullah Omar's office and the other at the Foreign Ministry here in Kabul. Now they are connected to the world.'' Though this is still very much an Afghan insurgency, fueled by complex local grievances and power struggles, the films sold in the markets of Pakistan and Afghanistan merge the Taliban story with that of the larger struggle of the Muslim umma, the global community of Islam: images of U.S. soldiers in Iraq and Israelis dragging off young Palestinian men and throwing off Palestinian mothers clinging to their sons. Humiliation. Oppression. Followed by the same on Afghan soil: Northern Alliance fighters perching their guns atop the bodies of dead Taliban. In the Taliban story, Special Forces soldiers desecrate the bodies of Taliban fighters by burning them, the Koran is desecrated in Guantanamo toilets, the Prophet Muhammad is desecrated in Danish cartoons and finally an apostate, Abdul Rahman, the Afghan who was arrested earlier this year for converting to Christianity, desecrates Islam and is not only not punished but is released and flown off to Italy. 
 It is not at all clear that Afghans want the return of a Taliban government. But even sophisticated Kabulis told me that they are fed up with the corruption. And in the Pashtun regions, which make up about half the country, Afghans are fed up with five years of having their homes searched and the young men of their villages rounded up in the name of counterinsurgency. Earlier this month in Kabul, Gen. David Richards, the British commander of NATO's Afghanistan force, imagined what Afghans are thinking: ''They will say, 'We do not want the Taliban, but then we would rather have that austere and unpleasant life that that might involve than another five years of fighting.''' He estimated that if NATO didn't succeed in bringing substantial economic development to Afghanistan soon, some 70 percent of Afghans would shift their loyalty to the Taliban.

Nation-Building, Again
 In the middle of Lashkar Gah, the capital of Helmand Province, a metal sign tilts into the road advertising the New York English Language Center. It is a relic of the last American nation-building scheme. Half a century ago, this town, built at the confluence of the Arghandab and Helmand Rivers, was the headquarters for an ambitious dam project partly financed by the United States and contracted out to Morrison-Knudsen, an engineering company that helped build Cape Canaveral and the Golden Gate Bridge. 
 Lashkar Gah (literally, ''the place of soldiers'') was to be a model American town. Irrigation from the project would create farms out of the desert. Today you can still see the suburban-style homes with gardens open to the streets, although the typical Afghan home is a fort with walls guarding the family's privacy. Those modernizing dreams of America and Afghanistan were eventually defeated by nature, culture and the war to drive the Russians out of Afghanistan in the 1980's. What remains is an intense nostalgia among the engineers, cooks and farmers of Lashkar Gah, who remember that time as one of employment and peace. Today, Lashkar Gah is home to a NATO base.
 Down the road from the base stands a lovely new building erected by an N.G.O. for the local Ministry of Women's Affairs. It is big, white and, on the day I visited, was empty except for three women getting ready to leave. ''It's so close to the foreigners, and the women are afraid of getting killed by car bombs,'' the ministry's deputy told me. She was a school headmistress and landowner, dressed elegantly in a lime-colored blouse falling below the knees and worn over matching trousers. She weighed the Taliban regime against this new one in terms of pragmatic choices, not terror or ideology. She said that she had just wrapped up the case of a girl who had been kidnapped and raped by Kandahari police officers, something that would not have happened under the Taliban. ''Their security was outstanding,'' she said.
 Under the Taliban, she said, a poppy ban was enforced. ''Now the governors tell the people, 'Just cultivate a little bit,''' she said. ''So people take this opportunity and grow a lot.'' The farmers lease land to grow poppies. The British and the police eradicate it. The farmer can't pay back the landowner. ''So instead of paying, he gives the landowner his daughter.'' 
 A few weeks before I arrived in Helmand, John Walters, the director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, told reporters that Afghan authorities were succeeding in reducing opium-poppy cultivation. Yet despite hundreds of millions of dollars being allocated by Congress to stop the trade, a United Nations report in September estimated that this year's crop was breaking all records -- 6,100 metric tons compared with 4,100 last year. When I visited Helmand, schools in Lashkar Gah were closed in part because teachers and students were busy harvesting the crop. A prosecutor from the Crimes Department laughed as he told me that his clerk, driver and bodyguard hadn't made it to work. They were all harvesting. It requires a lot of workers, and you can earn $12 a day compared with the $2 you get for wheat. Hence the hundreds of young, poor Talibs from Pakistan's madrasas who had flocked to earn that cash and who made easy converts for the coming jihad. 
 Walters had singled out Helmand for special praise. Yet just a short drive from the provincial capital, I was surrounded by poppy farmers -- 12-year-old boys, 75-year-old men -- hard at work, their hands caked in opium paste as they scooped figlike pulp off the bulbs into a sack tied around their waists. One little boy was dragging a long poppy stem attached to a car he had made out of bulbs. Haji Abdul, a 73-year-old Moses of a man, was the owner of the farm and one of those nostalgic for the heyday of the Helmand Valley project. He had worked with Americans for 15 years as a welder and manager. He was the first to bring electricity to his district. Now there was none. 
 ''Why do you think people put mines out for the British and Italians doing eradication when they came here to save us?'' He answered his own question: ''Thousands of lands ready for harvest were destroyed. How difficult will it be for our people to tolerate that! You are taking the food of my children, cutting my feet and disabling me. With one bullet, I will kill you.'' Fortunately he didn't have to kill anyone. He had paid 2,000 afghanis per jerib (about a half acre) of land to the police, he told me, adding that they would then share the spoils with the district administrator and all the other Interior Ministry officials so that only a small percentage of the poppy would be eradicated. 
 When I asked Manan Farahi, the director of counterterrorism efforts for Karzai's government, why the Taliban were so strong in Helmand, he said that Helmandis had, in fact, hated the Taliban because of Mullah Omar's ban on poppy cultivation. ''The elders were happy this government was coming and they could plant again,'' Farahi told me. ''But then the warlords came back and let their militias roam freely. They were settling old scores -- killing people, stealing their opium. And because they belonged to the government, the people couldn't look to the government for protection. And because they had the ear of the Americans, the people couldn't look to the Americans. Into this need stepped the Taliban.'' And this time the Taliban, far from suppressing the drug trade, agreed to protect it. 

A Dealer's Life
 The Continental Guest House in Kandahar, with its lovely gardens, potted geraniums and Internet access in every room, was mostly empty when I arrived, a remnant of the city's recently stalled economic resurgence. 
 To find out how the opium trade works and how it's related to the Taliban's rise, I spent the afternoon with an Afghan who told me his name was Razzaq. He is a medium-level smuggler in his late 20's who learned his trade as a refugee in Iran. He was wearing a traditional Kandahari bejeweled skull cap, a dark blazer and a white shalwar kameez, a traditional outfit consisting of loose pants covered by a tunic. He moved and spoke with the confident ease of a well-protected man. ''The whole country is in our services,'' he told me, ''all the way to Turkey.'' This wasn't bravado. From Mazar-i-Sharif, in northern Afghanistan, he brings opium in the form of a gooey paste, packaged in bricks. From Badakhshan in the northeast, he brings crystal -- a sugary substance made from heroin. And from Jalalabad, in the east on the road to Peshawar, he brings pure heroin. All of this goes through Baramcha, an unmanned border town in Helmand near Pakistan. Sometimes he pays off the national soldiers to use their vehicles, he said. Sometimes the national policemen. Or he hides it well, and if there is a tough checkpoint, he calls ahead and pays them off. ''The soldiers get 2,000 afghanis a month, and I give them 100,000,'' he explained with an angelic smile. ''So even if I had a human head in my car, they'd let me go.'' It's not hard to see why Razzaq is so successful. He has a certain charm and looks like the modest tailor he once was, not a man steeped in illegal business. 
 Razzaq's smuggling career began in Zahedan, a remote and unruly Iranian town near the border with Afghanistan and Pakistan. It is filled with Afghan refugees who, like Razzaq and his family, fled after the Russian invasion in 1979. Razzaq apprenticed as a tailor under his father and eventually opened his own shop, which the Iranians promptly shut down. They said he had no right as a refugee to own a shop. He began painting buildings, but that, too, proved a bureaucratic challenge. He was paid in checks, and the bank refused to cash them without a bank account, which he could not get. 
 Razzaq was newly married with dreams of a good life for his family. So one day he took a chance. ''I had gotten to know smugglers at my tailoring shop,'' he told me over a meal of mutton and rice on the floor of my hotel room. ''One of them was an old man, so no one ever suspected him. The smugglers asked me to go with him to Gerdi Jangel'' -- an Afghan refugee town in Pakistan -- ''and bring back 750 grams of heroin to Zahedan. The security searched us on the bus, but I'd hidden it in the heels of my shoes, and of course they didn't search the old man. I was so happy when we made it back. I thought I was born for the first time into this world.''
 So he took another chance and managed to fly to Tehran carrying four kilos in his bag. Each time he overcame another obstacle, he became more addicted to the easy cash. When the Iranian authorities imported sniffing dogs to catch heroin smugglers, Razzaq and his friends filled hypodermic needles with some heroin dissolved in water and sprayed the liquid on cars at the bus station that would be continuing on to Tehran, Isfahan and Shiraz. ''The dogs at the checkpoint went mad. They had to search 50 cars. They decided the dogs were defective and sent them back, and that saved us for a while.'' Eventually, he said, they concocted a substance to conceal the heroin smell from the new pack of dogs.
 After the fall of the Taliban, Razzaq moved back to Helmand, built a comfortable house and began supporting his extended family with his expanding trafficking business. Razzaq's main challenge today is Iran. While the Americans have turned more or less a blind eye to the drug-trade spree of their warlord allies, Iran has steadily cranked up its drug war. (Some 3,000 Iranian lawmen have been killed in the last three decades battling traffickers.) To cross the desert borders, Razzaq moves in convoys of 18 S.U.V.'s. Some contain drugs. The rest are loaded with food supplies, antiaircraft guns, rocket launchers, antitank missiles and militiamen, often on loan from the Taliban. The fighters are Baluch from Iran and Afghanistan. The commanders are Afghans. 
 Razzaq's run, as he described it, was a scene out of ''Mad Max.'' Three days were spent dodging and battling Iranian forces in the deserts around the earthquake-stricken city of Bam. Once they made it to Isfahan, however, in central Iran, they were home free. They released the militiamen, transferred the stuff to ordinary cars and drove to Tehran, where other smugglers picked up the drugs and passed them on to ethnic Turks in Tabriz. The Turks would bring them home, and from there they went to the markets of Europe. 
 Should he ever run into a problem in Afghanistan, he told me, ''I simply make a phone call. And my voice is known to ministers, of course. They are in my network. Every network has a big man supporting them in the government.'' The Interior Ministry's director of counternarcotics in Kabul had told me the same thing. Anyway, if the smugglers have problems on the ground, they say, they just pay the Taliban to destroy the enemy commanders. 
 Razzaq has at times contemplated getting out of the smuggling trade, he said, but the easy money is too alluring. Depending on the market, he can earn from $1,500 to $7,500 a month. Most Afghans can't make that in a year. Besides, he said, ''all the governors are doing this, so why shouldn't we?'' 

Losers Become Winners
 In December 2001, not long after the Taliban were routed, I visited the Shah Wali Kot district, several hours' drive on unpaved roads from Kandahar, a Mordor land of rock mountains shaped like sagging crescents and mud-baked houses melting into the dunes. The Taliban leaders had fled, mostly to Pakistan. Gul Agha Shirzai, formerly a local warlord and soon-to-be new governor, and his soldiers had swarmed into power while the Americans set up their operations base in Mullah Omar's Xanadu-like residence. I was with a large group of Populzai, the clan of the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai. 
 We were in a big guest room with more than a dozen men gathered in a circle, all wearing the kind of turbans that look like gargantuan ice-cream swirls. The ones in black turban swirls were giggling, chatting and slapping one another on the back. The ones in white turban swirls were sulking, grumbling or mute. In this group, the miserable white turbans were Taliban men. They had just lost their pickup trucks, weapons, money, prestige and jobs, all of which had gone to the gleeful black turbans.
 Today those miserable white turbans have taken to the mountains to fight. The gleeful black turbans are under siege. I saw one of the black turbans this summer, the Shah Wali Kot district leader, in the garden of the Kandahar governor's palace. He was a mess. He chuckled loudly when I asked him how it was back in Shah Wali Kot. ''Frankly, we are just defending ourselves from the Taliban,'' he said. ''Our head is on the pillow at night, but we do not sleep.''
 That small division among the Populzai in Shah Wali Kot echoes the larger division of the Pashtun into two main branches: the Durrani and the Ghilzai. The Durrani, Karzai's tribe, have dominated for the last two centuries in Afghanistan and regard themselves as the ruling elite. In the south, the Ghilzai were often treated as the nomadic, scrappy cousins. With the exception of Mullah Omar, who had been a poor Ghilzai farmer, the leaders of the Taliban tended to be Durrani. These days, the perception among the southern Ghilzai is that they are persecuted, that the jails are filled with their people, while the Durrani in the south received all the Japanese, U.S. and British contracts and jobs. From what I could gather during my weeks in Afghanistan, these perceptions were mostly true. But even if they were exaggerated, such perceptions, in an illiterate society, have a way of quickly morphing into reality.
 Take Panjwai, a district just outside Kandahar, where hundreds of Taliban massed this summer, taking advantage of the changeover from American soldiers to a NATO force of Canadian troops. One afternoon I met a red-haired propagandist and writer for the Taliban in a Kandahar office building. With his slight lisp, chain-smoking habit and eclectic reading -- French novelists and Arabic philosophers -- he seemed more a tormented graduate student than the landless villager from Panjwai he was. Panjwai is a mishmash of tribes, and the Taliban were exploiting the grievances of the Nurzai, a tribe that has felt persecuted and unfairly targeted for poppy eradication. Traders in Kandahar, he said, were donating money to the Taliban. Landowners were paying them to fight off eradicators. The Taliban were paying poor, unemployed men to fight. And religious scholars were delivering the message that it was time for jihad because the Americans were no different from the Russians. Just a few weeks earlier, the Taliban went on a killing spree in Panjwai. They beheaded a tribal leader in his home, shot another in the bazaar and hanged a man near a shrine with a note tacked on his body: ''SPY.''
 The Taliban were feeling bold enough that one afternoon Mullah Ibrahim, a Taliban intelligence agent, dropped by my hotel for lunch. He was a Ghilzai, from Helmand, and told me he had tried to lead a normal life under the official amnesty program. Instead, he was locked up, beaten and so harassed by Helmandi intelligence and police officers that his tribal elders told him to leave for Pakistan and join the Taliban there. Then, about a year ago, he decided that he was tired of fighting and living as a fugitive and accepted a reconciliation offer from an Afghan general. Pakistani intelligence got wind of this and imprisoned him; upon his release, the Pakistanis gave him money and a motorbike and pressured him to go back to war. He is still tired of war, but the Pakistanis won't let him live in peace, and now if he tries to reconcile with the Kabul government, he told me, the Taliban will kill him. 
 When fighting broke out on the main highway near Kandahar, I saw that the police had tied up a group of villagers -- but the Taliban had all escaped. One of those village men, his hands bound behind his back, told me that he had peeped out from his house earlier that day and saw some 200 Taliban with new guns and rocket launchers. They wanted food and threatened him and other villagers. ''But I am not afraid of them,'' he said loudly. ''I am only afraid of this government.'' Why? ''Look at what they do. They can't get the Taliban, so they arrest us. We have no hope from them anymore. And when we call and tell them Taliban are here, no one comes.'' As an engineer from Panjwai who had been an Afghan senator during the Communist era told me: ''We are now like camels. In Islam, a camel can be slaughtered in two different ways.
 ''The Taliban are using rivalries and enmities between people to get soldiers, the same tactics as the mujahedeen used against the Russians,'' the engineer continued. ''Just like in Russian times they come and say, 'We are defending the country from the infidels.' They start asking for food. Then they ask the people for soldiers and say, 'We will give you weapons.' And that's how it starts. And the emotions are rising in the people now. They are saying, 'Kaffirs have invaded our land.'''
 Qayum Karzai, the president's older brother and a legislator from Kandahar, seemed utterly depressed when I met him. ''For the last four years, the Taliban were saying that the Americans will leave here,'' he said. ''We were stupid and didn't believe it. Now they think it's a victory that the Americans left.''
 With the Americans on their way out and the NATO force not yet in control, the Kandahar Police were left on the front line: underfinanced, underequipped, untrained -- and often stoned. Which is perhaps what made them so brave. One afternoon I ran into a group who said their friends had just been killed when a Talib posing as a policeman served them poisoned tea. A shaggy-haired officer in a black tunic was standing by his pickup, freshly ripped up by a barrage of bullets, and staring at my feet. ''I envy your shoes,'' he said, looking back at his own torn rubber sandals. ''I envy your Toyota,'' he said and laughed. And then looking at my pen and notebook, he said, ''I envy you can read and write.'' It's not too late, I offered feebly, but he tapped his temple and shook his head. ''It doesn't work anymore,'' he said. ''I smoke hash. I smoke opium. I'm drinking because we're always thinking and nervous.'' He was 35. He had been fighting for 20 years. Four of his friends had been killed in the fighting the other night. He had to support children, a wife and parents on a salary of about $100 a month. And, he said, ''we haven't been paid in four months.'' No wonder, then, that the population complained that the police were all thieves.
 At Kandahar's hospital I met a 17-year-old policeman (who had been with the police since he was 14) tending to his wounded friend. He was in a jovial mood, amazed he wasn't dead. He said they had been given an order to cut the Taliban's escape route. Instead they were ambushed by the Taliban, ran out of bullets and had no phones to call for backup. ''We ran away,'' he said with a nervous giggle. ''The Taliban chased us, shouting: 'Hey, sons of Bush! Where are you going? We want to kill you.'''
 Last month, NATO forces struck back around Panjwai with artillery and aerial bombardments, killing an estimated 500 Taliban fighters and destroying homes and schools. But unless NATO can stay for years, create a trustworthy police force and spend the millions necessary to regenerate the district, the Taliban will be back.

Deciding to Fight
 Inside the old city walls of Peshawar, Pakistan, a half-hour drive from the Afghan border, in a bazaar named after the storytellers who enthralled Central Asian gold and silk merchants with their tales of war and tragic love, sits the 17th-century Mohabat Khan Mosque. It is a place of cool, marble calm amid the dense market streets. Yousaf Qureshi is the prayer leader there and director of the Jamia Ashrafia, a Deobandi madrasa. He had recently announced a pledge by the jewelers' association to pay $1 million to anyone who would kill a Danish cartoonist who caricatured the Prophet Muhammad. Qureshi himself offered $25,000 and a car. I found Qureshi seated on a cushion behind a low glass desk covered with papers and business cards -- ambassadors, N.G.O. workers, Islamic scholars, mujahedeen commanders: he has conversed with them all. His office resembles an antiques shop, the walls displaying oversize prayer beads, knives inlaid with ivory and astrakhan caps. It was day's end, and Qureshi was checking the proofs for his 51st book, called ''The Benefits of Koran.''
 Qureshi told me that he meets with Pakistan's president, Pervez Musharraf, about twice a year. Qureshi understands Musharraf's predicament: ''The heart of this government is with the Taliban. The tongue is not.'' He didn't claim total insider knowledge, but he said, ''I think they want a weak government and want to support the Taliban without letting them win.'' Why? ''We are asking Musharraf, 'What are you doing,' and he says: 'I'm moving in both ways. I want to support the Taliban, but I can't afford to displease America. I am caught between the devil and the deep sea.''' 
 Not long ago, Qureshi said, he received three emissaries from Mullah Omar who wanted Qureshi to warn another religious leader to stop preaching against the Taliban. ''I refused,'' he said. Later Sheikh Yassin, one of the messengers, was arrested by the I.S.I., Pakistan's military intelligence service. So why, I asked, does Qureshi say the I.S.I. is supporting the Taliban? ''That is the double policy of the government,'' he replied. Even in the 1990's, he said, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was supporting the official Afghan government of Burhanuddin Rabbani while the I.S.I. was supporting his opponent, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, as he rained thousands of rockets upon Rabbani's government and the citizens of Kabul. Qureshi told me that if he and local traders didn't want Al Qaeda or the Taliban to flourish, then they wouldn't. ''We are supporting them to give the Americans a tough time,'' he said. ''Leave Afghanistan, and the Taliban and foreign fighters will not give Karzai problems. All the administrators of madrasas know what our students are doing, but we won't tell them not to fight in Afghanistan.''
 The new Taliban fighters in Afghanistan are of three basic types. There are the old war-addicted jihadis who were left out of the 2001 Bonn conference, which determined the postwar shape of Afghan politics and the carve-up of the country. There are the ''second generation'' Afghan refugees: poor, educated in Pakistan's madrasas and easily recruited by their elders. And then there are the young men who had jobs and prestige in the former Taliban regime and were unable to find a place for themselves in the new Afghanistan.
 Coincidentally, there are also now three fronts. One is led by Mullah Omar's council in Quetta. The second is led by Jalaluddin Haqqani, a hero of the jihad against the Soviets who joined the Taliban. Although well into his 80's, he orchestrates insurgent attacks through his sons in Paktia, Khost and Paktika, the Afghan provinces close to Waziristan, where he is based. Finally, there is Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the former leader of Hezb-i-Islami, the anti-Soviet fighters entrusted with the most money and arms by the U.S. and Pakistan. He had opposed the Taliban, living in uneasy exile in Iran until the U.S. persuaded Tehran to boot him out; he sneaked into the mountainous eastern borderlands. Since the early days of Karzai's government, he has promised to organize Mullah Omar's followers with his educated cadres and finance their jihad against Karzai and the American invaders. Old competitors are coming together in much the way the mujahedeen factions cooperated to fight the Russians. Hekmatyar adds a lethal ingredient to this stew: his ties and his followers extend all through Afghanistan, including the north and the west, where he is exploiting factional grievances that have nothing to do with the Pashtun discontent in the south. 
 An Afghan I met outside Peshawar -- for his safety he asked me not to use his full name -- was typical of the 20-something Talibs who had flourished under the Taliban regime. He was from Day Chopan, a mountainous region in Zabul Province, northeast of Kandahar. When the Northern Alliance and the Americans took Afghanistan, he escaped through the hills on an old smuggling route to the North-West Frontier Province.
 It was familiar terrain. A.'s father had been a religious teacher who studied in Sami ul-Haq's famous Haqqaniya madrasa near the Khyber Pass and preached jihad for Harakat, one of the southern mujahedeen parties whose members filled Mullah Omar's ranks. Those old ties still bind and have provided a network for recruiting. A. grew up in madrasas in the tribal Pashtun lands of Waziristan, where he learned to fire guns as a child in the American-financed mujahedeen camps. As a teenage religious student in Wana, the capital of South Waziristan, he would go door to door collecting bread for his fellow Talibs. Behind one of those doors, he saw a girl and fell in love. When his father wouldn't let him marry the girl, he threatened to go fight in Afghanistan. His father would not relent, and A. signed up at the local Taliban office in Peshawar. ''We got good food, free service, everything was Islamic,'' he told me. ''It was the best life, rather than staying in that poor madrasa.'' His father soon did relent, and A. became engaged, but he was only 15 and had no money. So he went back to the Taliban and was soon working beside the deputy defense minister. ''Of course, then there were bags of money,'' he said. 
 A., now 28, was living in an Afghan refugee village that used to belong to Hekmatyar's group. Weak with malaria, he was nevertheless plump and jovial, even funny at times. Only when the Pakistani intelligence services came up did his already sallow hues pale to old bone. 
 After fleeing the American bombardment in 2001, he told me, the Taliban arrived in Pakistan tattered, dispersed and demoralized. But in the months after the collapse, senior Taliban leaders told their comrades to stay at home, keep in touch and wait for the call. Some Taliban told me that they actually waited to see if there was a chance to work with Karzai's government. 
 ''Our emir,'' as A. referred to Mullah Omar, slowly contacted the commanders and told them to find out who was dead and who was alive. Those commanders appointed group commanders to collect the underlings like A. Weapons stashed away in Afghanistan's mountains were excavated. Funds were raised through the wide and varied Islamic network -- Karachi businessmen, Peshawar goldsmiths, Saudi oil men, Kuwaiti traders and jihadi sympathizers within the Pakistani military and intelligence ranks. 
 Mullah Omar named a 10-man leadership council, A. explained. Smaller councils were created for every province and district. Most of this was done from the safety of Pakistan, and in 2003 Mullah Omar dispatched Mullah Dadullah to the madrasas of Baluchistan and Karachi to gather the dispersed Talibs and find fresh recruits. Pakistani authorities were reportedly seen with him. Still, neither Musharraf nor his military men in Baluchistan did anything to arrest him.
 It was a perfect job for Dadullah, whose reputation for bravery was matched by his savagery and his many war wounds, collected in more than 25 years of fighting. In 1998, his fighters slaughtered hundreds of Hazaras (Shiites of Mongol descent) in Bamiyan Province, an act so brutal it was even too much for Mullah Omar, who had him disarmed at the time. Dadullah's very savagery, filmed and now often circulated on videotape, coupled with his promotional flair, were just the ingredients Omar needed to put the Taliban back on the map. 
 Today, Quetta has assumed the character of Peshawar in the 1980's, a suspicious place of spies and counterspies and double agents. It is not just the hundreds of men in typical Afghan Pashtun clothing -- the roughly wound turbans, dark shalwar kameez, eyes inked with kohl -- who squat on Thursday afternoons outside the Kandahari mosque in the center of town, comparing notes on the latest fighting in Helmand or the best religious teachers. Rather, as I wandered the narrow alleyways of the Afghan neighborhoods, my local guides would say, ''That's where Mullah Dadullah was living'' or ''That's where Mullah Amir Khan Haqqani is living.'' (Haqqani is the Taliban's governor in exile for Zabul Province.) Mullah Dadullah is now a folk hero for young Talibs like A. And all the Taliban I met told me that every time Dadullah gives another interview or appears on the battlefield, it serves as an instant injection of inspiration. 
 By 2004, A. said, he was meeting a lot of Arabs -- Saudis, Iraqis, Palestinians -- who taught the Afghans about I.E.D.'s (improvised explosive devices) and suicide bombings. ''They taught us how to put explosives in plastic,'' he told me. ''They taught us wiring and triggers. The Arabs are the best instructors in that.'' But now the Afghans are doing fine on their own. Pakistani jihadis in Afghanistan received their training, they told me, from Pakistani officers in Kashmir. 
 The southerners have also forged ties with the Pakistani Taliban in Waziristan. There is a free flow of arms and men between Waziristan and the Afghan provinces across the border. According to A., even Uzbeks from the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan have joined some of the fighters now in A.'s home mountains in Day Chopan. 
 It was disheartening to hear A. describe his first encounter with Americans, who were trying to set up a base in a remote region of Zabul. Though they were building a road where no roads had gone before, he could perceive that asphalt only as a means for the Americans to transport their armored vehicles and occupy Muslim lands. A friend of his joined us as we were talking. He had just arrived in Pakistan from the Day Chopan region and said that the Americans were like a cyclone of evil, stealing their almonds and violating their Pashtunwali (the Pashtun tribal laws). In this instance, he meant the law by which even a cousin will not enter your house without knocking first.
 A. is now a media man in Pakistan, coordinating the editing of films for discs, censoring them in case there are commanders who don't want their faces seen and distributing them. He proudly offered me the latest disc of Mullah Dadullah beheading some ''spies for the Americans.'' He said he had sold 25,000 CD's about the fighting in Waziristan. 
 He was full of contradictions. He said that if he didn't have a house in Day Chopan, he would never spend a single night there because there was no education, no electricity, no power, nothing, just a heap of stones. Yet he did not want America to change all that. ''We don't like progress by Americans,'' he declared. ''We don't like roads by Americans. We would rather walk on tired feet as long as we are walking in an Islamic state.''
 Was it all just bravado speaking? Was an opportunity to build bridges to young men like A. somehow lost or just neglected? It was hard to tell. But when the I.S.I. subject came up again, his tone changed. ''They are snakes,'' he told me. He said that they were trying to create a new, obedient leader and oust the independent-minded Mullah Omar, and for that, the real Taliban hated them. Then he said: ''I told you that we burn schools because they're teaching Christianity, but actually most of the Taliban don't like this burning of schools or destroying roads and bridges, because the Taliban, too, could use them. Those acts were being done under I.S.I. orders. They don't want progress in Afghanistan.'' An Indian engineer was beheaded in Zabul in April, he said, and that was also ordered by Pakistan, which, from fear of the influence of its enemy, India, was encouraging attacks on Indian companies. ''People are not telling the story, because no one can trust anyone, and if I.S.I. knows I told you,'' he said, he would be dead. 

Pakistan's Assets
 There are many theories for why Pakistan might have wanted to help the Taliban reconstitute themselves. Afghan-Pakistani relations have always been fraught. One among the many disputes has to do with the Durand Line, the boundary drawn up by the British in 1893 partly to divide the Pashtun tribes, who were constantly revolting against the British. The Afghan government has never recognized this line, which winds its way from the Hindu Kush mountains of North-West Frontier Province 1,500 miles down to the deserts of Baluchistan, as its border. Nor have the Pashtun tribes. The Pakistanis may hope to force Karzai to recognize the Durand line in exchange for stability. 
 Another theory is that Musharraf must appease the religious parties whom he needs to extend his power past the end of his term next year. Musharraf bought them off, gave them control of the North-West Frontier Province and Baluchistan and let them use the Taliban. And finally, the Pakistanis see Afghanistan as their rightful client. They want an accommodating regime, not Karzai, whose main backers are the U.S. and India, Pakistan's nemesis.
 Pakistan's well-established secular Pashtun nationalist political leaders remain distraught that their lands have again become sanctuaries for the Afghan Taliban and the Pakistani religious parties, which, since elections in 2002, rule these provinces and are completing a Talibanization of the region. The secular leaders point to another layer in Pakistan's games: keeping the tribal areas autonomous enables Pakistan's intelligence services to ward off the gaze of Westerners and keep their jihadis safely tucked away. 
 One thing you notice if you visit the homes of retired generals in Pakistan is that they live in a lavish fashion typical of South America's dictatorship-era military elite. They control most of the country's economy and real estate, and like President Musharraf, himself a former general, they do not want to relinquish power.
 Although there is a secularist strain in the Pakistani military, it has been aligned with religious hard-liners since the army's inception in 1947. Many officers still see their duty as defending the Muslim world, but their raison d'etre has been undermined by the fact that though Pakistan was founded as a refuge for South Asia's Muslims, more Muslims today live in India. They seem to envy the jihadis' clarity. The militants had no identity crises. According to Najim Sethi, a prominent Pakistani journalist, military officers often have ''a degree of self-disgust for selling themselves'' to the Americans, and they still bear a grudge against the United States for abandoning them after the Afghan jihad and, more recently, for sanctioning Pakistan over its nuclear program. The standard army phrase about the Americans was, he said, ''They used us like a condom.''
 Officers spoke to me as if they were simply translating the feelings of the jihadis for a tone-deaf audience, but they sounded more like ventriloquists. One retired colonel I spoke to was a relative of a Taliban leader from Waziristan, Abdullah Massoud, who had earned both sympathy and reverence for his time in Guantanamo Bay. Massoud was captured fighting the Americans and the Northern Alliance and spent two years there, claiming to be a simple Afghan Talib. Upon his release, he made it home to Waziristan and resumed his war against the U.S. With his long hair, his prosthetic limb and impassioned speeches, he quickly became a charismatic inspiration to Waziristan's youth. 
 Since 2001, some of Waziristan's tribes have refused to hand over Qaeda members living among them. Under intense American pressure, Pakistan agreed for the first time in its history to invade the tribal areas. Hundreds of civilians and soldiers were killed. American helicopters were seen in the region, as were American spies. The militants (with some army accomplices) retaliated with two assassination attempts against Musharraf late in 2003. He struck back, but as the civilian casualties mounted and the military began to balk at killing Pakistanis, Musharraf agreed to a deal in the spring of 2004 whereby the militants would give up their guests in return for cash. Pakistani officers and the militants hugged and shed tears during a public reconciliation. But the militants did not relinquish their Al Qaeda guests, and they took advantage of the amnesty to execute tribal elders they said had helped the Pakistani military. The tribal structure in Waziristan was devastated, and the Taliban took to the streets to declare the Islamic emirate of Waziristan. Since Musharraf signed a truce with the militants last month, attacks launched from Waziristan into Afghanistan, according to NATO, have risen by 300 percent. 
 ''Muslim governments are not able to face the Americans,'' the retired colonel from Waziristan said, explaining the mujahedeen mind-set. ''If Muslim governments should stand up against duplicity and foreign hegemonic designs, and they don't, who will? Someone has to stand up to defend the Muslim countries, and it's this that gives the jihadis the courage and zeal to stand up to the worst atrocities. This is the core issue of the mujahedeen movement. You call it the war on terror. The mujahedeen call it jihad.'' And so, essentially, did he. 
 One afternoon, in the midst of a monsoon, I sought out one of the founders of the pro-jihadi strategy, the retired general Mirza Aslam Beg. He lived in Rawalpindi, the military capital half an hour from Islamabad, in a brick and tile-roofed mansion with a basketball hoop, flowing greenery and Judy, his one-eyed cocker spaniel. The house was immaculate, with marble floors, rugs, fine china and porcelain on display behind glass and an amusing portrait of Aslam Beg as a young, Ray-Banned, pommaded officer. His mansion sits across the street from Musharraf's.
 Aslam Beg played a leading role in the military's creation of ''asymmetrical assets,'' jargon for the jihadis who have long been used by the military as proxies in Kashmir and Afghanistan. He was chief of the army staff from 1988 to 1991, while the Pakistani nuclear scientist A.Q. Khan was selling the country's nuclear technology to Iran, Libya and North Korea. Beg held talks with the Iranians about exchanging Iranian oil for Pakistani nuclear skill. 
 Aslam Beg likes to remind visitors that he was one of a group of army officers trained by the C.I.A. in the 1950's as a ''stay-behind organization'' that would melt into the population if ever the Soviet Union overran Pakistan. Those brigadiers and lieutenant colonels then trained and directed the Afghan jihadis. 
 In the 1980's, ''the C.I.A. set up the largest support and administrative bases in Mohmand agency, Waziristan and Baluchistan,'' Aslam Beg told me. ''These were the logistics bases for eight long years, and you can imagine the relations that developed. And then Chechens, Uzbeks, Tajiks, Saudis developed family relations with the local people.'' The Taliban, he said, fell back after 2001 to these baselines. ''In 2003, when the U.S. attacked Iraq, a whole new dimension was added to the conflict. The foreign mujahedeen who'd fought in Afghanistan started moving back to Afghanistan and Iraq.'' And the old Afghan jihadi leaders stopped by the mansion of their mentor, Aslam Beg, to tell him they were planning to wage war against the American occupiers. 
 As the rain outside turned to hail, banging against the windows, Aslam Beg ate some English sandwiches that had been wheeled in by a servant. ''As a believer,'' he went on, ''I'll tell you how I understand it. In the Holy Book there's an injunction that the believer must reach out to defend the tyrannized. The words of God are, 'What restrains you from fighting for those helpless men, women and children who due to their weakness are being brutalized and are calling you to free them from atrocities being perpetuated on them.' This is a direct message, and it may not impact the hearts and minds of all believers. Maybe one in 10,000 will leave their home and go to the conflicts where Muslims are engaged in liberation movements, such as Chechnya, Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan and Kashmir. Now it's a global deterrent force.''

The Authentic Jihad
 The old city of Lahore, with its broad boulevards and banyan-tree canopies, remains the cultural and intellectual heart of Pakistan. It is home to a small elite of journalists, editors, authors, painters, artists and businessmen. Najam Sethi, editor in chief of The Friday Times, and his wife, Jugnu Mohsin, the publisher, are popular fixtures among this crowd. Like so many of Pakistan's intellectuals, they have had their share of run-ins with government security agents. For pushing the bounds of press freedom, Sethi was dragged from his bedroom during Nawaz Sharif's reign, beaten, gagged and detained without charge. Musharraf, in his new autobiography, claims that Nawaz Sharif wanted him to court-martial Sethi for treason, an act that seemed ludicrous to him, and he refused. 
 I met him one afternoon at the newspaper's offices as he was preparing his weekly editorial. He is a tall, affable man with smiling eyes and large glasses. And he got right down to business, providing an analysis of why Pakistan had decided to bring its ''assets'' -- by which he meant the Taliban and Kashmiri jihadis -- off the shelf. 
 In the days following 9/11, when Musharraf gathered together major editors to tell them that he had no choice but to withdraw his support for the Taliban, Sethi raised the touchy issue of the other jihadis. He said that if Musharraf was abandoning the Taliban, he would have to abandon the sectarian jihadis (fighting the Shiites), the Kashmir jihadis, all of the jihadis, because they were all trained in mind by the same religious leaders and in body by the same Pakistani forces. 
 In January 2002, Musharraf gave an unusually long televised speech to the nation. He reminded the people that his campaign against extremism was initiated years before and not under American pressure. He vowed that Pakistan would no longer export jihadis to Kashmir, that he was again placing a ban on several jihadi organizations, that camps would be closed and that while the madrasas were mostly educating the poor, some were centers of extremist teaching and would be reformed. A month later, Musharraf was at the White House next to President Bush, who praised him for standing against terrorism. 
 Sethi characterized Pakistani authorities as believing that the U.S. in Iraq ''will be a Vietnam.'' He said: ''Afghanistan will be neither here nor there. So we cannot wrap up our assets. We must protect them.'' The I.S.I. realized it could help deliver Al Qaeda to the U.S. while keeping the Taliban and the jihadis on the back burner. At the same time, Musharraf's moderate advisers were telling him that holding on to those assets would eventually boomerang. And soon enough, the assets began to come after Musharraf -- while the people of Pakistan were turning against him for being pro-American. ''So going after jihadis who were protecting the Taliban came to a halt,'' Sethi said. 
 Meanwhile the landscape next door in Afghanistan was changing. The warlords were back in action. The drug economy was surging. By 2003 and 2004, Musharraf's men were becoming hysterical about what they saw as a growing Indian presence in Afghanistan, particularly the Indian consulates in Kandahar and Jalalabad, the Pashtun strongholds that Pakistan considered its own turf. Karzai was doing business with Indians and Americans and was no longer a Pashtun whom Pakistanis would want to do business with.
 As Sethi spoke, I recalleda meeting I had with one of Kandahar's prominent tribal leaders. He recounted a visit from a former Pakistani general who had been active in the I.S.I. The general invited Kandahar's leaders to lunch and warned them not to let the Indians put a consulate in Kandahar and to remember who their real benefactors were. Today there is a consulate there, and Indian films and music are sweeping through the Pashtun lands. What is more, many Pakistanis believe India is backing the Baluch insurgency in Pakistan's far south, clouding the prospects for the new, Chinese-built port in Gwadar. The port is Pakistan's single largest investment in its economic future and has been attacked by Baluch rebels. 
 In many ways, Pakistani policy is already looking beyond both Karzai and the Americans; they believe it is prudent to imagine a future with neither. That future will be shaped by the past: the past with India, the past with the Soviet Union, the past with America. For Pakistan's hard-liners, at least, the obvious choice was to take their assets off the shelf and restart the jihad.

A Difficult Choice
 On the wall outside the Eid Ga madrasa, in Kuchlak, a parched town near Quetta, Afghan students and teachers were debating the merits of jihad. One boy had just fled an American assault on Day Chopan in Zabul Province. He had never been to Pakistan before. He was frenzied, in shock. As a student from Kandahar led the others in dusk prayer, a young boy whispered to me, ''I like America.'' They were hardly a unified group. One young Helmandi told me, ''We want our traditions of Islam and Sharia, not your democracy,'' while another argued for peace. Then the Helmandi asked, with genuine confusion: ''Why are Muslims being tortured everywhere in the world, and no one is there to stand up for them? But if you touch one Westerner, the sky is on your head?''
 Most madrasas in Pakistan are run by the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam, the religious-party alliance that has joined with Musharraf to keep the popular parties of Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif from regaining power. The J.U.I. madrasas usually endorse jihad, although even here I met madrasa students who were against the war. They subscribed to a vision of jihad as a struggle for self-improvement and the improvement of society. Mawlawi Mohammadin, a cleric from Helmand, went so far as to tell me that these are the true roots of jihad, though he confessed that his is a lonely voice. He was afraid of everyone -- Taliban, Pakistani intelligence, even his pupils. ''If we start openly supporting Karzai, we could be killed by our own students,'' he told me with nervous laughter. Only a month earlier, a Taliban official from Helmand who had reconciled with Karzai's government was gunned down by assassins on a motorbike in Quetta.
 Mohammadin said that it is now open season for jihad in Afghanistan under J.U.I. guidance. Government ministers were even attending funerals to praise Pakistani Pashtuns who had died fighting in Kandahar. He estimates that there are some 10,000 Taliban fighters in Baluchistan. Despite the intimidation, he says he feels that his mission is to steer his students away from war. 
 One of these was Mohamed Nader, who had just attended a cousin's funeral and was wondering what it all meant. His cousin's family was poor, and without their knowledge, he had gone to earn money first by harvesting poppies in Helmand and then by fighting for the Taliban. Finally he was killed. Among the biggest problems, Nader told me, was that the cohesion of the Afghan family has been shredded by decades of poverty and refugee life in Pakistan. In a typically strong Afghan family, young adults obey their parents, even asking for permission to go fight. But here, boys just run off.
 Rahmatullah was one of those who had run off and returned. He was skinny and disheveled, having just faced heavy fighting in Kandahar. Though an Afghan, he had grown up in Baluchistan, near the border, in an area where he said 200 fighters were now living. The mullah at his madrasa told all the students that it was time for jihad. And the I.S.I. was paying cash. But his father was old and against the war; he pleaded with him to abandon fighting. So he sent Rahmatullah to his friend Mohammadin, hoping he might open another path for his son. Rahmatullah told me that he wasn't sure yet which mullah he would listen to. 

(Next week, Part 2: How U.S. and NATO forces have been battling the Taliban and fighting for hearts and minds.)



Map By FutureFarmers

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 22 about the return of the Taliban to Afghanistan referred imprecisely to an Afghan warlord and general. Abdul Rashid Dostum is chief of staff to the commander of the armed forces, not the army chief of staff

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cash Crop: 1. Haji Abdul, once a welder and manager at the U.S.-backed Helmand Valley project, now grows poppies to support his extended family. 2. His son scrapes the opium goo from the bulbs. 3. A nephew collects the figlike opium paste. Farmers often become ill from the residue left on their hands. 4. Haji Abdul protects his fields from destruction by bribing the police. (Photographs By Elizabeth Rubin for The New York Times)
Unrest in Pakistan: 1. Violence broke out in Quetta, Pakistan, on Aug. 29 after Nawab Bugti, a Baluch tribal leader, was killed in a clash with army troops. 2. The house of Maulana Hamdullah, the Taliban commander. 3. Pakistanis outside a house in Quetta where the police said they arrested 30 Taliban members on Oct. 7. 4. Rioters in Quetta on Aug. 29. (Photographs 1 and 4: John Moore/Getty Images. 2: Arshad Butt/AP. 3: Banaras Khan/AFP/Getty Images.)
Guerrilla Action: 1. Taliban fighters about to attack NATO forces, who had surrounded their training camp in Ghazni Province, on July 9. 2. Sentries guarding a planning session for the nighttime raid. 3. A guard keeping watch as his comrades pray for the success of their impending mission. 4. Two Taliban commanders orchestrating the July 9 operation.
 Battle Ready: Taliban fighters washing their feet before saying the prayers that will precede the attack. (Photographs By Veronique De Viguerie/WPN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (94%); RELIGION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ETHICS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORISM (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); BORDER CONTROL (64%); OPIUM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Opium; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Ethics; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) Taliban

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%) Elizabeth Rubin; Hamid (Pres) Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%) PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Afghanistan; Pakistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



540 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: The Chinese Go After Corruption, Corruptly

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
THE corruption scandal in Shanghai that had already taken down one of China's most powerful officials claimed two smaller scalps last week: the chief of the national statistics bureau was fired, and an official with the Formula One racing circuit was hauled in for questioning. The contrast between the statistician and the racing executive may have been incidental, but it underscored the perception, fair or not, that official corruption is everywhere in China.
 To some extent, the ruling Communist Party does not disagree.
In an economic boom gilded with excess and profiteering, official corruption is so widespread, and increasingly so brazen, that it is almost taken for granted. The latest World Bank governance survey found that China had seriously backslid in the category of ''containing corruption'' when much of the rest of the world, if not improving, was basically unchanged on the issue. 
 President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao have warned that corruption threatens the credibility and legitimacy of Communist Party rule and have vowed to stamp it out. But many experts say that truly stamping out corruption would involve the type of broad political reform and a full embrace of the rule of law that the party has long resisted. The current corruption sweep authorized by Mr. Hu in Shanghai and other cities is widely viewed as more of a purge of allies linked to his predecessor, President Jiang Zemin, than an unfettered crackdown.
 ''The problem with China today is that if you want to pursue corruption, so many people are tainted,'' said Minxin Pei, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. As a result, Mr. Pei noted, Mr. Hu could never investigate corruption solely on its merits because it would topple so many of his own political allies.
 No one truly knows the depth of corruption in China because so much malfeasance goes undiscovered or is covered up by the party. Even so, the information that does reach the public domain is stunning. Last year, the party committee responsible for internal discipline investigated more than 147,000 corruption cases, most handled outside the legal system. The People's Supreme Court reported that more than 10,000 officials were convicted of corruption charges in the first six months of this year. Chinese newspapers regularly carry stories about the latest arrests or executions with details about officials using government money to pay for prostitutes, luxury homes, extravagant meals and vacations.
 Some accounts seem out of Dickens: a cadre with the Chinese Federation of Cripples is sentenced to prison for stealing about $12,000 that was to have been used to organize the Congress of Chinese Cripples. An accountant with a nursery school run by the state-owned China Northern airline is caught stealing roughly $15,000, including the children's lunch money. 
 The Communist Party is trying to send a signal to rank-and-file members that corruption must be reined in, partly because of rising public anger over abuses like officials' illegally seizing land from farmers or razing blocks of apartments to clear land for developers. In these cases, officials typically pay meager compensation to farmers and tenants but then reap enormous profits by selling to the developers. 
 ''There is a long tradition of corruption,'' said Andrew H. Wedeman, a China specialist at the University of Nebraska who is researching a book on the link between corruption and development in China. ''But in this transitional period, the stakes have gone way up.''
 The transitional period is China's shift to a market economy, in which party officials at all levels, operating under minimal oversight, often control whether someone can get land, or a needed license or purchase order. The Ministry of Commerce has estimated that 4,000 officials have fled overseas in recent years with roughly $50 billion in embezzled money. In 2005 alone, an expert in the National Audit Office found, $35 billion in state funds was misappropriated.
 Mr. Wedeman said higher amounts of money at stake have corresponded to corruption seeping into higher levels of government. He noted that the number of officials at the county level or higher prosecuted for corruption had tripled in the last decade, to almost 3,000. By one count, 20 officials at the ministry level of the central government have been arrested since 2002.
 Official corruption also has contributed to the deepening moral vacuum and cynicism felt by many ordinary Chinese when making money is paramount. Petty corruption is commonplace. Peddlers sell fake expense-account receipts outside train stations. Doctors demand ''red envelope'' payments from patients. Graduate students bribe scholarly journals to publish their work. 
 ''The problem is that ordinary people don't believe there is anything in place to control the power that officials have,'' said Zhang Jiansheng, 53, a retired soldier who owns a small teahouse in the provincial capital of Yinchuan. He added: ''People are in search of material comforts now. That spirit of helping each other is not as strong.'' 
 The government responds largely with propaganda campaigns, like the recent ''Eight Honors and Shames'' theme promoted by Mr. Hu to encourage upright behavior and discourage deceit. Some older people like Mr. Zhang appreciate the effort. But many people, particularly the young, regard such campaigns as cynical efforts to avoid meaningful changes -- like political reform.
 To some extent, the corruption problem is not atypical for the country's stage of development, some analysts say. In ratings by Transparency International, the global civil society organization fighting corruption, China ranks in the bottom half of the world, though not the very bottom. Daniel Kaufmann, an author of the World Bank governance survey, said that China had steadily declined in the bank's corruption ranking.
 ''It is pertinent to ask the question of whether the measures and approaches being implemented are the most effective ones,'' he said.
 Mr. Kaufmann is one of many experts who contend that any country trying to curb corruption inevitably benefits from a freer press and greater government transparency. Corruption is hardly a secret in China, and cases are reported and investigated in some newspapers. But the lines are clearly drawn. No newspaper would dare independently investigate a high official in the central government. At the local level, officials commonly censor corruption reports. The scrutiny is so great that a minor government official in southwest China was arrested for writing a satirical poem about corruption and sending it to friends by e-mail and text message.
 China's legal system also is curtailed. The overwhelming majority of corruption cases are never presented to prosecutors but are instead handled by party investigators. And when cases are handed over to the courts, analysts say, the party often recommends the punishment.
 The Shanghai investigation is a case in point. Under Mr. Hu's orders, the powerful party boss Chen Liangyu, also a member of the ruling Politburo, was arrested last month on allegations that he misused city pension funds for speculative real estate deals and other ventures. Notably, he was detained not by the local police or prosecutors but by an investigative team sent down from Beijing by the party's Central Inspection Discipline Commission. It is a reminder that often the Communist Party opts to address corruption outside the law.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ken Orvidas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (92%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); ETHICS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FORMULA ONE RACING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); SENTENCING (65%); CHILDREN (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); PROSTITUTION (50%) Ethics

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%); WEN JIABAO (73%) Jim Yardley; Hu Jintao (Pres); Wen Jiabao (Prime Min); Jiang Zemin

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



541 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is Not a Miracle Elixir

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THE Democrats are so brilliant at yanking defeat from the jaws of victory that it still seems unimaginable that they might win on Nov. 7. But even the most congenital skeptic has to face that possibility now. Things have gotten so bad for the Republicans that were President Bush to unveil Osama bin Laden's corpse in the Rose Garden, some reporter would instantly check to see if his last meal had been on Jack Abramoff's tab. 
 With an approval rating of 16 percent -- 16! -- in the new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, Congress has matched the Democrats of 1994 or, for that matter, Michael Jackson during his own version of Foleygate. As for Mr. Bush, he is once more hiding behind children in an elementary school, as he did last week when the monthly death toll for Americans in Iraq approached a nearly two-year high. And where else could he go? Some top Republican Congressional candidates in the red state he was visiting, North Carolina, would not appear with him. When the president did find a grateful campaign mate at his next stop, Pennsylvania, it was the married congressman who paid $5.5 million to settle a lawsuit by a mistress who accused him of throttling her. 
Maybe the Democrats can blow 2006 as they did 2004, but not without herculean effort. As George Will memorably wrote, if they can't at least win back the House under these conditions, ''they should go into another line of work.''
 The tough question is not whether the Democrats can win, but what will happen if they do win. The party's message in this campaign has offered no vision beyond bashing Mr. Bush and pledging to revisit the scandals and the disastrous legislation that went down on his watch. Last spring Nancy Pelosi did promote a ''New Direction for America'' full of golden oldies -- raising the minimum wage, enacting lobbying reform, cutting Medicare drug costs, etc. She promised that Democrats would ''own August'' by staging 250 campaign events to publicize it. But this rollout caused so few ripples that its participants might as well have been in the witness protection program. Meanwhile, it was up to John Murtha, a congressman with no presidential ambitions, to goad his peers to start focusing on a specific Iraq exit strategy. 
 Enter Barack Obama. To understand the hysteria about a Democratic senator who has not yet served two years and is mainly known for a single speech at the 2004 convention, you have to appreciate just how desperate the Democrats are for a panacea for all their ills. In the many glossy cover articles about Obamamania, the only real suspense is whether a Jack or Bobby Kennedy analogy will be made in the second paragraph or the fifth. Men's Vogue (cover by Annie Leibovitz) went so far as to say that the Illinois senator ''alone has the potential to one day be mentioned in the same breath'' as Richard Wright, Ralph Ellison, Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King. Why not throw in Mark Twain and Sammy Davis Jr.? 
 This is a lot to put on the shoulders of anyone, even someone as impressive as Mr. Obama. Though he remains a modest and self-effacing guy from all appearances, he is encouraging the speculation about seeking higher office -- and not as a coy Colin Powell-style maneuver to sell his new book, ''The Audacity of Hope.'' Mr. Obama hasn't been turning up in Iowa for the corn dogs. He consistently concedes he's entertaining the prospect of a presidential run.
 There's no reason to rush that decision now, but it's a no-brainer. Of course he should run, assuming his family is on the same page. He's 45, not 30, and his slender resume in public office (which also includes seven years as a state senator) should be no more of an impediment to him than it was to the White House's current occupant. As his Illinois colleague Dick Durbin told The Chicago Tribune last week, ''I said to him, 'Do you really think sticking around the Senate for four more years and casting a thousand more votes will make you more qualified for president?' '' Instead, such added experience is more likely to transform an unusually eloquent writer, speaker and public servant into another windbag like Joe Biden. 
 The more important issue is not whether Mr. Obama will seek the presidency, but what kind of candidate he would be. If the Democratic Party is to be more than a throw-out-Bush party, it can't settle for yet again repackaging its well-worn ideas, however worthy, with a new slogan containing the word ''New.'' It needs a major infusion of steadfast leadership. That's the one lesson it should learn from George Bush. Call him arrogant or misguided or foolish, this president has been a leader. He had a controversial agenda -- enacting big tax cuts, privatizing Social Security, waging ''pre-emptive'' war, packing the courts with judges who support his elisions of constitutional rights -- and he didn't fudge it. He didn't care if half the country despised him along the way. 
 The interminable Iraq fiasco has branded the Democrats as the party of fecklessness. The failure of its leaders to challenge the administration's blatant propaganda to gin up the war is a failure of historic proportions (as it was for much of the press and liberal punditry). When Tom Daschle, then the Senate leader, presided over the rushed passing of the war resolution before the 2002 midterms, he explained that the ''bottom line'' was for Democrats ''to move on''; they couldn't wait to campaign on the economy. The party's subsequent loss of the Senate did not prevent it two years later from nominating a candidate who voted for the war's funding before he voted against it.
 What makes the liberal establishment's crush on Mr. Obama disconcerting is that it too often sees him as a love child of a pollster's focus group: a one-man Benetton ad who can be all things to all people. He's black and he's white. He's both of immigrant stock (Kenya) and the American heartland (Kansas, yet). He speaks openly about his faith without disowning evolution. He has both gravitas and unpretentious humor. He was the editor of The Harvard Law Review and also won a Grammy (for the audiobook of his touching memoir, ''Dreams From My Father''). He exudes perfection but has owned up to youthful indiscretions with drugs. He is post-boomer and post-civil-rights-movement. He is Bill Clinton without the baggage, a fail-safe 21st-century bridge from ''A Place Called Hope'' to ''The Audacity of Hope.'' 
 Mr. Obama has offended no one (a silly tiff with John McCain excepted). Search right-wing blogs and you'll find none of the invective showered on other liberal Democrats in general and black liberal leaders in particular. What little criticism Mr. Obama has received is from those in his own camp who find him cautious to a fault, especially on issues that might cause controversy. The sum of all his terrific parts, this theory goes, may be less than the whole: another Democrat who won't tell you what day it is before calling a consultant, another human weather vane who waits to see which way the wind is blowing before taking a stand. 
 That has been the Democrats' fatal malady, but it's way too early and there's too little evidence to say Mr. Obama has been infected by it. If he is conciliatory by nature and eager to entertain adversaries' views in good faith, that's not necessarily a fault, particularly in these poisonous times. The question is whether Mr. Obama will stick up for core principles when tested and get others to follow him. 
 That's why it's important to remember that on one true test for his party, Iraq, he was consistent from the start. On the long trail to a hotly competitive senatorial primary in Illinois, he repeatedly questioned the rationale for the war before it began, finally to protest it at a large rally in Chicago on the eve of the invasion. He judged Saddam to pose no immediate threat to America and argued for containment over a war he would soon label ''dumb'' and ''political-driven.'' He hasn't changed. In his new book, he gives a specific date (the end of this year) for beginning ''a phased withdrawal of U.S. troops'' and doesn't seem to care who calls it ''cut and run.''
 Contrast this with Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic presidential candidate, who last week said that failed American policy in Iraq should be revisited if there's no improvement in ''maybe 60 to 90 days.'' This might qualify as leadership, even at this late date, if only John Warner, the Republican chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, hadn't proposed exactly the same time frame for a re-evaluation of the war almost a week before she did.
 The Democrats may well win on Election Day this year. But one of their best hopes for long-term viability in the post-Bush era is that Barack Obama steps up and changes the party before the party of terminal timidity and equivocation changes him.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%); MEDICARE (61%); WITNESSES (50%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (71%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN P MURTHA (78%); FRANK RICH (59%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%) Frank Rich; Barack (Sen) Obama

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



542 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Send In The Fat Guys

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
A North Korean visiting South Korea once sniffed that all the cars must have been brought in from around the country just to make a good impression for his visit. His South Korean host added dryly that it had been even more difficult to bring in all the tall buildings.
 Such interactions with the outside world are the best hope to chip away at North Korean totalitarianism, but we've missed the opportunity because for decades we've conspired with Kim Jong-il to isolate his people. 
Lately Americans have been quarreling over who is more to blame for North Korea's nuclear test, Bill Clinton or George W. Bush.
 Well, Mr. Clinton inherited a situation that, if it had continued, would have resulted in North Korea having hundreds of nuclear weapons by now, and producing an additional 50 each year. Instead, Mr. Clinton negotiated a deal with North Korea that resulted in it producing not a single ounce of new plutonium in his eight years in office.
 In contrast, President Bush inherited that North Korean nuclear freeze and, if he had just left it alone, North Korea wouldn't have produced any new plutonium. But Mr. Bush overruled Colin Powell's efforts to continue the engagement -- and so North Korea has churned out enough plutonium on Mr. Bush's watch for perhaps eight nuclear weapons.
 But in a larger sense, the North Korean nuclear test -- and the fact that Kim Jong-il is still in power -- represent a failure not so much of either Mr. Bush or Mr. Clinton, but of decades of bipartisan American policy that aimed to isolate the North. 
 Look around the world at the regimes we despise: North Korea, Cuba, Burma and Iran. Those are among the world's most long-lived regimes, and that's partly because the sanctions and isolation we have imposed on them have actually propped them up -- by giving those countries' leaders an excuse for their economic failures and a chance to cloak themselves in nationalism.
 Kim Jong-il sees that the best way to preserve North Korean totalitarianism is in the formaldehyde of its own isolation. In effect, Mr. Kim has placed sanctions on his own country, and we're abetting him.
 In the 1970's, North Korea poked its head out of its shell, negotiating with South Korea, seeking foreign investors and sending letters to Jimmy Carter seeking talks. Mr. Carter considered inviting the leaders of North and South Korea to a summit meeting at a place like Camp David -- but dropped the idea when his own aides reacted with horror.
 Yet if we had held such a meeting, and gradually encouraged trade and other contacts, North Korea's regime might well have collapsed by now. At least, it would have moderated enough that the country would look like China or Vietnam.
 I lived in China in the 1980's and 1990's when Communist ideology was collapsing there, and I'm convinced that the best way to undermine North Korea's government would be to send in business executives -- overweight ones, if possible. In a country like North Korea, where the government responded to famine by broadcasting a cautionary ''documentary'' about a man who exploded after eating too much rice, nothing would be more subversive than tubby foreigners.
 Mr. Bush is right that we have to punish North Korea for its brazen nuclear test, and the administration has been sensible and prudent in the last few weeks in devising a series of penalties. But after North Korea drags itself back to six-party talks, we should begin to move away from our long, failed strategy of trying to isolate the world's most isolated country.
 In particular, it's a mistake for us to reproach the South Koreans -- who have more of a stake than anybody, and who understand the North Koreans better than we do -- for operating factories in the Kaesong industrial zone in North Korea.
 It's true that those North Korean workers have no rights, and that North Korea will use the hard currency to bolster its military. But those South Korean factories are expected to employ 700,000 workers by 2012.
 While North Korea can survive punitive sanctions, I don't think the regime can survive the shock of having 700,000 of its citizens working for South Korean capitalists -- and realizing that the southerners are so rich and spoiled that they refuse to eat rice with gravel in it. 
 The biggest threat to North Korea's regime isn't from American warships, but from the sight of other Koreans dieting, or listening on iPods to love songs, or watching decadent television comedies.
 So let's stop helping the Dear Leader isolate his own people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); ALDEHYDES (50%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Tests and Testing; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); KIM JONG IL (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (54%) Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) North Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



543 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Father Mike

BYLINE: By Amy Fairchild and James Colgrove. 
Amy Fairchild is an associate professor and James Colgrove is an associate research scientist at the Center for the History and Ethics of Public Health at Columbia.

 BODY:
WHEN Mayor Michael Bloomberg last month announced a proposal to require restaurants to virtually eliminate trans fats from their food, he made a point of assuring the city that the measure was not paternalistic. ''If you want to eat fries, nobody's taking away your ability to eat fries,'' he argued, clearly aware of the charges of ''nanny state'' that would greet the proposal. 
 In fact, the measure is paternalistic -- but that doesn't mean it's inappropriate. Paternalism, the practice of limiting people's choices for their own good, has long been central to public health policy. While it has always been controversial, in recent decades paternalism has become a dirty word to most Americans. 
In the late 19th century, as the American public health system was taking shape, officials openly invoked paternalism as a rationale for intervention. ''The government of the United States is democratic, but the sanitary measures adopted are sometimes autocratic, and the functions performed by sanitary authorities paternal in character,'' argued Hermann Biggs, the most important official in the New York City health department, a century ago in reference to the detention of tuberculosis carriers. ''We are prepared, when necessary, to introduce and enforce measures which might seem radical and arbitrary if they were not plainly designed for the public good.'' 
 Although health officials promoted paternalism as a basis for policy, business owners often protested the approach, claiming it interfered with commerce. In the 1960's and 1970's, rights-based social movements took up the objection to the paternal state as they advocated individual control over decision-making. Thus paternalism became anathema at the same time that individual lifestyles and behaviors came to be seen as the most significant causes of sickness and death. 
 As a result, officials who wanted to enact aggressive public health measures had to mask rationales that suggested paternalistic motives. Policymakers justified seat-belt and motorcycle-helmet laws by citing the costs that accidents imposed on society. And even before there was scientific evidence of the hazards of secondhand smoke, those who sought to ban smoking in public argued that they were protecting innocent bystanders.
 In that tradition, Mayor Bloomberg, too, has advanced health measures in the name of protecting vulnerable third parties, as he did when he insisted that the health of employees required a ban on smoking in restaurants and bars. But at times he has also been open about his desire to protect people from their own choices. He described the increase in the cigarette tax to $1.50 a pack as ''the most important measure my administration takes to save people's lives'' -- whether those people wanted their lives saved or not. 
 More recently, the mayor has grown bolder. In June he denounced society's ''forbearance, and even social and economic encouragement, of such behavior as tobacco addiction, unhealthy nutrition and excessively sedentary lifestyles.'' An effective public health strategy, he added, ''must therefore alter that calculus by changing how we live.'' 
 Opponents of the trans fat proposal invoke the ''slippery slope'' and ask where such intervention will end. Bans on hot fudge sundaes and double cheeseburgers? It is certainly possible, however, to step onto the slippery slope without sliding down it. To do so requires that we evaluate the burden each public health measure imposes on individual freedom against the reduction it promises in illness and premature death. 
 Public health policies that limit individual choice can be justified in a variety of ways. Some prevent people from harming others; some reduce costs to the public; and others simply promote the greatest good for the greatest number. 
 But protecting people from their own actions is also a valid rationale. Indeed, if we are honest about it, the most important reason to require the use of seat belts and motorcycle helmets isn't to save taxpayers money but to shield riders from harm. Similarly, tobacco control programs reduce exposure to secondhand smoke, but their ultimate goal is to protect smokers themselves. 
 We don't simply encourage people to brush their teeth; we fluoridate the water. When a fire at a chemical storage plant produces a plume of toxic fumes, we order evacuations, even of people reluctant to leave their homes. A caring society does not stand idly by when its members harm themselves. 
 Paternalism has an important place in public health. We ought to call it what it is and debate it forthrightly, rather than treating it as the principle that dare not speak its name. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); OILS & FATS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMOKING (89%); SMOKING BANS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (74%); VEHICLE HELMET REGULATION (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (67%); TAX INCREASES (61%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Restaurants; Trans Fatty Acids

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Amy (Prof) Fairchild; James Colgrove

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



544 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Rock Ribs Gone Soft

BYLINE: By Gary Holmes. 
Gary Holmes, an executive at a research company, was a speech writer in the Reagan administration.

DATELINE: DARIEN 

 BODY:
WHAT'S the matter with Connecticut? This used to be home to the original Yankee, the low-key blueblood, the flinty farmer -- all of whom voted Republican in the great New England tradition. Even in 1932, this coalition snubbed its collective nose at Franklin Roosevelt as Connecticut joined five other rock-ribbed Republican states in voting for Herbert Hoover. As late as 1990, Connecticut was still without a state income tax.
 But over the past few decades, blueblood Connecticut has morphed into blue state Connecticut. Not only has it voted Democratic in each of the past four presidential elections, it has sent a total of only two Republicans to the United States Senate in the past 50 years. One was Prescott Bush, the current president's grandfather, who left office in 1963. The other was Lowell Weicker. (Enough said.) Now, with another Election Day fast approaching, we find Joe Lieberman, the 2000 Democratic nominee for vice president, offered to Connecticut voters as the conservative alternative. 
Why do Connecticut voters, who pay among the highest taxes per capita, reflexively support candidates who would tax them even more? Doesn't anyone care that we get back only 66 cents in federal appropriations for every dollar we send to Washington?
 Perhaps one explanation for this masochism is suggested by Thomas Frank's best seller, ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' Mr. Frank ponders why Kansas, which nurtured left-wing populism in the late 19th century, now votes Republican, even in the face of apparent economic hardship. Mr. Frank argues that a coalition of economic and social conservatives has duped working-class Kansans into voting against their economic interests by exploiting fears of moral decline. In Mr. Frank's telling, pocketbook issues like wages, job insecurity, health care and outrageous pay for chief executives are overshadowed by hot-button ''wedge'' issues like abortion and gay rights. 
 You could argue that wealthy Connecticut voters are subject to a similar, albeit inverted, political perversity. Among Connecticut's country-club Republicans, it is politically correct to be fiscally conservative but socially liberal. When it comes to the voting booth, though, socially liberal always seems to get the better of fiscally conservative -- and the votes go to the big spenders. 
 Connecticut's most affluent suburbs didn't seem to care that the 2004 Democratic presidential candidate, John Kerry, had proposed a large tax increase on families earning more than $200,000. Indeed, the majority of Fairfield County, one of the wealthiest in the nation, cast votes for Mr. Kerry. To protect abortion rights, gay rights and the environment, upper-income Connecticut voters appear more than willing to vote against their own economic interests. 
 But maybe there is more at work in these elections than the culture wars. When contemplating the well-to-do voter, it's important to remember there are different kinds of affluence: the rich are not only different from you and me, they are different from one another. You've got coupon-clippers who inherited their money, multi-degreed professionals working at New York law firms or Greenwich hedge funds, ambitious entrepreneurs and eager corporate climbers (the kind who not only read Jack Welch's books but believe them). All may have money, but they relate to it in different ways.
 Connecticut's lovely, well-established old towns are congenial to satisfied elites -- those who have already reached the top of the heap. Many Connecticut professionals, along with others who have inherited their money, are nominally Republican. But they are a species of Republican that doesn't quite buy the whole laissez-faire, up-from-your-bootstraps, conservative ball of wax. Well-educated and worldly, they feel validated by the status quo and they see no reason to rock the boat with ideological crusades against taxes and regulation. 
 But Connecticut is less amenable to those who are still energetically climbing the socio-economic ladder. Small-business owners, entrepreneurs, and corporate managers tend to be more striving, restless and competitive. These are the kinds of ideological Republicans more determined to hang on to their money. They are also in short supply in Connecticut.
 Instead, they gravitate to the most Republican (and capitalistic) place in America today -- exurbs, the so-called ''edge cities'' of giant office parks, fast-growing businesses and instant subdivisions that have sprung up beyond the reach of traditional suburbs. The exurbs are populated by people who want lower taxes and traditional moral values. If you want to create wealth from scratch, or work from the ground up at the next great software/technology/business solutions company, that's the place to be. 
 Needless to say, there is little room for exurbs in well-settled Connecticut, nor for the right-leaning strivers who populate them. As taxes have reached for the sky, Connecticut has acquired an indelible blue tint, made even bluer by the fact that voters resistant to taxes and regulation have been driven out of the state to points south and west. 
 So, are the well-off, well-educated voters of Connecticut hoodwinked by liberals into voting against their self-interest? Probably no more than working-class voters in the Midwest are duped by conservatives. The fact is, once you've made your pile, taxes just don't seem quite so onerous. The heavy hand of government is most loathsome to the true capitalist at heart. And those people have moved elsewhere. Like Kansas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TRENDS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LGBT RIGHTS (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); ABORTION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) Gary Holmes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



545 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: U.S. TO HAND IRAQ A NEW TIMETABLE ON SECURITY ROLE

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is drafting a timetable for the Iraqi government to address sectarian divisions and assume a larger role in securing the country, senior American officials said.
 Details of the blueprint, which is to be presented to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki before the end of the year and would be carried out over the next year and beyond, are still being devised. But the officials said that for the first time Iraq was likely to be asked to agree to a schedule of specific milestones, like disarming sectarian militias, and to a broad set of other political, economic and military benchmarks intended to stabilize the country.
Although the plan would not threaten Mr. Maliki with a withdrawal of American troops, several officials said the Bush administration would consider changes in military strategy and other penalties if Iraq balked at adopting it or failed to meet critical benchmarks within it.
 A senior Pentagon official involved in drafting the blueprint said Iraqi officials were being consulted as the plan evolved and would be invited to sign off on the milestones before the end of the year. But he added, ''If the Iraqis fail to come back to us on this, we would have to conduct a reassessment'' of the American strategy in Iraq. 
 In a statement issued Saturday night, a White House spokeswoman, Nicole Guillemard, said the Times's account was ''not accurate,'' but did not specify what officials found to be inaccurate.
 The plan is being formulated by General George W. Casey Jr. and Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, the top military and civilian officials in Iraq, as well as by Pentagon officials.
 General Casey has been in close consultations with the White House as the debate over the way forward in Iraq has intensified in recent weeks. And he and Mr. Khalilzad took part by videoconference on Saturday in a strategy meeting with President Bush and senior administration officials, including Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Gen. John P. Abizaid, the top American commander in the Middle East, and Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
 ''We're trying to come up with ways to get the Iraqis to step up to the plate, to push them along, because the time is coming,'' a senior administration official said. ''We can't be there forever.''
 Until now, the Bush administration has avoided using threats of deadlines for progress, saying conditions on the ground would determine how quickly Iraq took on greater responsibility for governing the country and how soon American troops could withdraw. CBS News has reported that the Pentagon was studying these questions, but the broad scope of the steps under consideration and the benchmarks that are being contemplated have not been disclosed.
 ''We've been coordinating with the Iraqis for months on a series of measures they can take to assume more control of their country,'' the White House statement said, ''and to form the basis for a national compact between all communities in Iraq on the way forward.''
 The idea of devising specific steps that Mr. Maliki would have to take was described by senior officials who support the plan but would speak only on condition of anonymity. Their willingness to discuss a plan that has not been fully drafted appeared intended at least in part to signal renewed flexibility on the part of the administration, and perhaps also to pre-empt the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, a commission led by James A. Baker III and charged with formulating a new strategy in Iraq. It is expected to issue recommendations late this year or early next year.
 The plan also moves the administration closer to an idea advocated by many Democrats, who have called for setting a date for beginning phased withdrawals of American troops from Iraq as a way to compel Iraq's government to resolve its internal divisions and take on more responsibility.
 Frustration is growing among senior American military officers and civilian officials in Iraq and at the Pentagon with Mr. Maliki for his failure to move decisively against Shiite militias and on a wide range of other fronts. Even the implied threat that the administration would reassess its presence in Iraq may not be enough, senior officials said.
 In Baghdad, Iraqi leaders have been watching the discussions carefully and expressing uneasiness over the growing political pressure in the United States for a troop pullout. 
 Tensions between Washington and Baghdad reached a new point on Monday when Mr. Maliki, who took office in May, used a telephone call with Mr. Bush to seek assurances that the United States did not intend to oust him. The White House said after the call that Mr. Bush had pledged full support for the Iraqi.
 Mr. Rumsfeld alluded to discussions about benchmarks on Friday at a Pentagon news conference, noting that Mr. Khalilzad and General Casey ''are currently working with the Iraqi government to develop a set of projections as to when they think they can pass off various pieces of responsibility.''
 He emphasized the urgency of transferring more security and governing responsibilities to the Iraqis. ''It's their country,'' he said. ''They're going to have to govern it, they're going to have to provide security for it, and they're going to have to do it sooner rather than later.''
 But Mr. Rumsfeld was quick to play down expectations: ''There's no doubt in my mind but that some of those projections we won't make; it will be later, or even earlier in some instances. And in some cases, once we meet the projection, we may have to go back and do it again.''
 Mr. Maliki's government has already announced its own set of benchmarks, including the establishment of a mechanism to disarm private militias. This week, the government removed commanders of the special police commandos and the public order brigade, both widely criticized as being heavily infiltrated by Shiite militias, in the first broad move against the top leadership of Iraq's unruly special police forces.
 But the surge in violence in Baghdad and other places recently has prompted consideration of even more far-reaching steps. An American official said that one proposed plan was to give the Iraqi Army the lead role in domestic security, downgrading the role of police units. 
 The Bush administration has emphasized building up the police this year so that they can take on the main role in providing security in many cities. The move would be another acknowledgment that the increase in sectarian violence in Baghdad and elsewhere has exposed deep problems with some police units, which have been blamed by Sunnis for carrying out sectarian attacks.
 The American strategy in Iraq was thrown into disarray this week by attacks carried out by a Shiite militia in Amara, a town south of Baghdad, and by the acknowledgment from an American military spokesman that the latest plan to secure Baghdad was faltering.
 In his radio address on Saturday, Mr. Bush emphasized that the administration was staying flexible in its planning and would ''make every necessary change to prevail.''
 Saying the goal of victory was ''unchanging,'''' he added: ''What is changing are the tactics we use to achieve that goal. Our commanders on the ground are constantly adjusting their approach to stay ahead of the enemy, particularly in Baghdad.'' 
 Officials said they were still debating which benchmarks to include and how long the Iraqis should be given to achieve them. The plan is likely to cover a number of Iraqi ministries, including Finance, Interior and Defense, which have struggled to varying degrees with corruption and with delivering even the most basic services, officials said.
 General Casey said this month that he hoped by the end of the year to have six or seven provinces under Iraqi administrative control. Currently, there are only two. But the plan is also likely to include timelines for turning over American-run military bases, an official said.
 The decision about how far-reaching to make the blueprint is likely to be influenced by what Mr. Maliki and his ministers say they can reasonably accomplish. But American officials are discussing if they should specify whether Iraqi officials deemed incompetent or corrupt should be replaced, one official said. Officials are also considering a timetable for the Iraqi Defense Ministry to have in place systems for paying, feeding and equipping its units, jobs that are still overseen to a large degree by American advisers and by contractors, some of whom have not performed well, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); DICK CHENEY (58%) David S Cloud; George W (Pres) Bush; George W Jr (Gen) Casey; Zalmay (Amb) Khalilzad

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



546 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Play Up Candidates' Service

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: GLEN ELLYN, Ill. 

 BODY:
As she campaigns for Congress in the suburbs of Chicago, Tammy Duckworth, a Democrat and an Iraq veteran, speaks with chilling conviction about the war. 
 Iraq was a big mistake, Ms. Duckworth says as she walks among voters on two artificial legs. Millions of dollars have been wasted there. Soldiers were being served costly steak and lobster on Sunday nights even as they were not given body armor they needed.
Though Ms. Duckworth is a political novice, her service and sacrifice (she lost her legs when a grenade hit her helicopter) have allowed her to speak her mind in a district once seen as downright hostile toward Democrats, having sent a Republican to Congress for 32 years. 
 Around the nation, a handful of military veterans like Ms. Duckworth have emerged as competitive Democratic candidates for Congress. For a party that has struggled against a perception that Republicans are stronger on matters of terrorism and national security, the veterans have been a powerful antidote: a group that inherently carries credibility with voters on issues like Iraq. 
 With only about a quarter of the members of Congress having served in the military, the fewest in recent decades, many voters say such experience matters.
 ''She was there,'' said Barb Bauler, who recently met Ms. Duckworth as the candidate served fruit salad at a retirees' club. ''That is the bravest thing of all.''
 Tears creeping up in her eyes, Ms. Bauler pulled out a photograph of her daughter Kathleen to show Ms. Duckworth, telling her that Kathleen, a doctor in the Army, was to be deployed soon.
 ''Tell her to wear her gear,'' said Ms. Duckworth, who then reached over for a hug.
 Some 60 former service members are challengers for the House or the Senate as Democrats, including a half-dozen who served in Iraq. The Democrats are not shy about military resumes. Among their promotions is a ''Fighting Dems'' Web site bearing the subtitle, ''Back from the front lines, headed to Congress.''
 Polls show Ms. Duckworth and her Republican opponent, Peter J. Roskam, locked in a competitive contest. About half a dozen other races with veterans running as Democrats in places like Kentucky, Pennsylvania and Virginia are also seen as competitive, meaning the veterans could help tip the balance of power in Congress if they do well.
 Many of the other veterans running as Democrats, though, are unlikely to be headed to Congress this season, analysts say, and a few complain that the party remembers them for promotions, but forgets them when it comes to money. 
 The Republicans have 41 challengers with military experience making bids for the House or the Senate, two of them Iraq veterans, but the party has not publicly focused as much on that group's service. 
 ''A candidate's biography is hardly the sole indicator as to how people choose to vote,'' said Tracey Schmitt, a Republican National Committee spokeswoman. ''Americans are going to take a long, hard look at where each individual stands on the issues that matter to them, whether it's national security or the economy.'' 
 Here, the war credentials of Ms. Duckworth have become particularly potent in part because of the visible wounds she received in Iraq two years ago. Her prosthetic legs leave her limping noticeably, and she sometimes cheerily props one of them up on a chair or pushes back her sleeve to display a web of scars on her right arm, which doctors feared might also be lost.
 Encouraged to run by Democratic Party leaders, she faces Mr. Roskam, a longtime state legislator, for the Sixth District seat in the western suburbs now held by Representative Henry J. Hyde, who is retiring.
 The battle has been relatively well financed, fierce and, some voters complain, overwhelming in its rush of commercials, mailings and countermailings. Each candidate suggests that the other will be in lock step with party leaders, unwilling or unable to offer independent opinions.
 Mr. Roskam, a lawyer, criticizes Ms. Duckworth as a ''recruited candidate'' who is getting her help and financial support from everywhere other than here. 
 ''I'm not the Rosie O'Donnell candidate, the Barbra Streisand candidate, the Al Franken candidate who is also all tied up with the Chicago Democratic machine,'' Mr. Roskam, who has longstanding roots in these parts, said in an interview after speaking at his former grade school.
 In turn, Ms. Duckworth portrays Mr. Roskam as an unwavering supporter of President Bush and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, both of whom have appeared recently in Chicago, in part to help raise more than a half-million dollars for Mr. Roskam. 
 The district, much of which includes parts of DuPage County -- where Mr. Bush's father won by 124,000 votes in 1988 but where Mr. Bush's victory margin was far narrower in 2000 (48,400 votes) and narrower still in 2004 (38,800 votes) -- has shifted some. Republicans are still popular, but the Latino population is also growing, which Democrats say could help make the region more hospitable for them.
 Ms. Duckworth talks about Iraq at nearly every stop. As she entered the room for one recent appearance, a screen lit up with a video of Bob Kerrey, the former senator, retelling Ms. Duckworth's harrowing story.
 But Mr. Roskam, whose campaign has the unusual task of facing an opponent whose story has drawn notice from People magazine and scores of international publications, said most voters here were more focused on taxes and immigration than on Iraq. 
 On those points, Mr. Roskam said he would make Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent and would support strictly securing the nation's borders without ensuring amnesty for illegal immigrants. 
 As for the war, Mr. Roskam said he agreed with Ms. Duckworth in certain ways. Difficult questions, he said, should be posed about why the nation ''did not go in with overwhelming force.'' But he also said he would be ''very judicious'' in deciding when to withdraw American troops. 
 ''There will be a point when Iraq gets as stable as it can get,'' he said. Ms. Duckworth, meanwhile, said Iraq was among the top issues, along with the budget and energy independence, for most voters. 
 Before them, she pounds away at the ways she says the war has been mishandled, saying that the job in Afghanistan should have been finished first; that contractors are getting rich as soldiers die; and that soldiers should begin coming home as Iraqis successfully take charge of security.
 The war, Ms. Duckworth said, is why she finds herself running for office. 
 ''I was there in the hospital looking at more and more bad decisions, more and more bad policy,'' she said.
 Ms. Duckworth has raised more than $2 million (as has Mr. Roskam) and has also benefited from spending by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Some other veterans, particularly those in races considered long shots, have received less or no support; a few say they feel abandoned by the party. 
 ''They want us when we're of value to them, and then they want us to sit down and shut up when we're not,'' said Bill Winter, a veteran. Mr. Winter said Democratic Party leaders in Colorado urged him to run for that state's Sixth District, then seemed to disappear, writing off his race against Tom Tancredo, a Republican incumbent, as not winnable.
 Bill Burton, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said the party remained proud of all its veterans. ''We would love to fund all of our candidates out around the country,'' Mr. Burton said, ''but there's a harsh political reality -- the finite nature of our funds.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tammy Duckworth, above, a Democrat and an Iraq war veteran, is making the war central in her campaign for Congress. Peter J. Roskam, a Republican, says he gets few questions about it. (Photographs by Sally Ryan for The New York Times)Map of Illinois highlighting the Sixth Congressional District: The Sixth District has elected a Republican for three decades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETERANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ARMIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); TERRORISM (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Elections; Election Issues; Veterans; Finances; Handicapped

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: TAMMY DUCKWORTH (94%); PETER J ROSKAM (89%) Monica Davey; L Tammy Duckworth; Peter J (Sen) Roskam

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Illinois; Chicago (Ill); Iraq; Illinois

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



547 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Egypt, Under Stress, Sees U.S. as Pain and Remedy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
Faced with twin political threats -- a rising Islamic movement at home and diminished influence throughout the region -- Egypt is pressing the United States for an aggressive promotion of Palestinian statehood as a means of strengthening itself and other Arab governments allied with Washington, senior officials say. 
 Egyptian officials told Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on her recent visit here that the United States should move straight ''to the endgame,'' with a major policy initiative tackling the most contentious Palestinian issues: borders of a future state, the site of the capital, and the so-called right of return for Palestinian refugees.
Whether Washington agrees -- a senior Egyptian official with first-hand knowledge of the conversation said Ms. Rice seemed to be listening -- Egypt's request is evidence of growing concern and frustration here. The leadership is showing signs of vulnerability, and in large measure it has blamed American actions in the Middle East for many of its problems, from the rise of Iran as a regional power to the growing popularity of political Islam. 
 Egyptians and other Arab leaders who are friendly with the United States see a major regional peace initiative by Washington as the first necessary step toward stealing momentum from Islamic groups, officials here said. In Egypt, however, optimism is limited that Washington will put the stated interests of its Arab allies ahead of the perceived interests of Israel.
 ''There is a realization that strategic estrangement in the post-Iraq period has been harmful to both sides,'' said Abdel Moneim Said, the director of Egypt's premier research center, the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, and a member of the governing National Democratic Party. ''Both are going through a series of reassessments of their positions.''
 Egypt itself is in a moment of political twilight, so the regional and domestic challenges it faces appear magnified. The situation is delicate, and officials interviewed spoke only on condition of anonymity.
 While its critics say the government's own failure to combat poverty, corruption and political oppression is to blame for its weakened state, officials say the United States has undermined them. The invasion of Iraq has put Baghdad into Iran's orbit; the insistence on democratic elections allowed Hamas to gain power in the Palestinian areas; and, more recently, the refusal to press for a speedy end to Israel's bombardment of Lebanon helped lionize Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of the militant group Hezbollah. 
 Add to the mix the fact that President Hosni Mubarak is 78 and has ruled Egypt for 25 years. Increasingly, it appears he is trying to pave the way for his son Gamal to inherit the presidency. But there is no consensus among the ruling elite. Some are concerned that the son would lack legitimacy unless selected through a free and democratic process, which Egypt has shown no hint of supporting. 
 And there is no certainty that the military would go along with the president's son, who would be the first president from outside the armed forces since the monarchy was overthrown in 1952. 
 For all the hand-wringing, experts agree that a sudden political crisis is unlikely in Egypt, or at least not the kind that would lead to an Islamist-led revolution. But the confluence of internal uncertainty and external pressures has affected Egypt's policies, and its regional influence.
 For example, despite repeated efforts, Egypt has been powerless to stabilize the conflict between the main Palestinian factions, Hamas and Fatah. In the past, Egypt's security services were influential, and effective, in the Palestinian areas. 
 On the domestic front, Egyptian officials have stepped up repression as a means to blunt the rising popularity of the Muslim Brotherhood, locking up its leaders without charge. There also is talk of amending the Constitution to avoid the embarrassing prospect of only one candidate for president, but in such a way as to prohibit any independent candidates aligned with the Brotherhood. The group has been the only credible opposition. 
 In its foreign relations, for the first time in nearly three decades Egypt is trying to improve business ties with Russia, and President Mubarak plans to visit China next month. Top government and party officials have also made aggressive public statements aimed at embarrassing, or challenging, the United States. In one notable scene when Ms. Rice was in Cairo, she and the Egyptian foreign minister, Ahmed Aboul Gheit, appeared together at a news conference beamed live around the world.
 ''I've spoken about Ayman Nour each time that I meet with my Egyptian counterpart,'' Ms. Rice replied when asked by a reporter if she was still pushing for the release of Mr. Nour, the imprisoned opposition political leader.
 ''You didn't raise it today,'' Mr. Aboul Gheit interjected without hesitation.
 But these efforts, the moves toward Russia and China, and the aggressive public remarks from officials mask a reality that is driving the government to press the United States to become more engaged in the Arab-Israeli peace effort. 
 ''You can't have a deal in the Middle East without the Americans, regardless of the judgment we carry,'' one government official said. 
 Many people, inside and outside government, say the roots of the government's problems lie more in its domestic failures than in outside pressure. Although Egypt's government has moved to improve macroeconomic policies, for example, a vast majority of this nation of 70 million live in deep poverty. 
 While they talk about moving toward democracy, Egyptian authorities have canceled elections, prohibited the creation of new parties and locked up political opponents. ''The state is failing to meet its most basic responsibilities, starting with providing clear drinking water,'' said Mustapha Kamel, a political science professor at American University in Cairo. ''There is a feeling the ruling team does not have a good vision for dealing with the problems of the country.''
 The popularity of political Islam in Egypt, many political analysts said, is not a result of the Palestinian crisis. ''It is not because the Brotherhood is religious, but because the public is fed up with the ruling party and their promises,'' said Abdallah al-Ashaal, a former assistant to the foreign minister who now teaches international law and relations at Cairo University.
 But Dr. Ashaal did say Egypt -- and the United States -- would benefit greatly if the Palestinian issue were addressed. ''If you find a fair solution to the Palestinian problem, you pave the way for talks with all parties,'' he said, referring to Syria and Lebanon as well.
 So in an atmosphere of distrust of the United States, officials here are still hoping that Washington will heed their call. ''You can't achieve peace without the United States,'' said Hesham Youssef, chief of staff at the Arab League, ''but we can't continue business as usual.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Muslim Brotherhood rally in Cairo on Friday. Many critics fault government failure to ease poverty for the rise of political Islam in Egypt. (Photo by Goran Tomasevic/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); HAMAS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ETHICS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); REFUGEES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); TERRORISM (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; Palestinians; Terrorism; Politics and Government ; Freedom and Human Rights; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); HASSAN NASRALLAH (57%) Michael Slackman

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LEBANON (79%) Egypt; Israel; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



548 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: In Two New Mexico Towns, Voices of Concern About the Party in Power

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

DATELINE: PLACITAS, N.M., Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Jerry Eller, a Republican engineer who built his own house in this small town with big mountain views, voted twice for President Bush.
 But his disenchantment with the Republican Party cuts so deeply that if the 2004 presidential election were being held this year, Mr. Bush would not get his vote. ''If Kerry was running this time,'' said Mr. Eller, 53, referring to Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee in 2004, ''I would vote for him.''
A Vietnam veteran with three sons of military age, Mr. Eller frets over the war in Iraq and a possible draft, an idea he calls far from improbable. But there are other disturbing issues, too, he said: the erosion of civil liberties, runaway spending, and the religious right's squeeze on the party.
 Next month, Mr. Eller said, he plans to vote for the Democratic candidate in the tight House race here. ''You get one party in power and they become corrupt,'' he said. 
 In interviews with nearly two dozen people in Bernalillo, a small, mostly Hispanic town on Route 66, and its neighbor, Placitas, which is more affluent and increasingly more Republican, voters expressed their concerns about the state of the nation. Asked what issues will sway their votes in the House race here, almost everyone interviewed said, ''The war and '' (fill in the blank).
 For some Republicans here, this one-two punch -- the war and the federal deficit, the war and corruption, the war and the House page scandal -- is enough to catapult some to the other side. Or at least to get them thinking of voting for the other party, something few of them imagined two years ago, they said.
 In Placitas, a tranquil town of modern adobe houses, Republicans mostly describe themselves as moderate, the kind who disapprove of partisan politics. Some are New Mexico natives. Others come from elsewhere: Texas (to escape the humidity), Michigan (to flee the cold) and California (to stretch their money). 
 They live in a swing state. New Mexico went to Al Gore in 2000 and to Mr. Bush in 2004, both times by a sliver. In the First Congressional District here, which includes neighboring Albuquerque, voters opted for Mr. Kerry in 2004, although Sandoval County, Placitas' home, went for Mr. Bush. Yet voters in this district have sent a Republican to the House for nearly four decades. The state has a Democratic governor but a senator from each party.
 Representative Heather A. Wilson, who was first elected in this district in 1998, has won each election with a boost from Democrats. Now, though, she is in a dead heat with Patricia Madrid, the Democratic attorney general, according to recent polls.
 The rancorous campaign has generated debate, and considerable anger, among most voters, who expressed distaste for today's political culture, namely the partisan bickering and negative campaigning. But it has also prompted reflection. And while some Republicans here are steadfastly loyal, others said disenchantment had crept in.
 A Republican newcomer to the area, Stan Nivault, 52, a married contractor and father of four from Austin, Tex., said he had never voted for a Democrat. But this year, Mr. Nivault, who calls himself a staunch Catholic, said he actually might, mostly because of the revelation that former Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Florida, had sent explicit electronic messages to underage male Congressional pages. 
 ''It's a bad thing,'' Mr. Nivault said. ''I'm upset that the guy was there to begin with and that Republicans did not handle it correctly. Democrats have made a big issue of it, but they have a right to.''
 ''Normally I vote straight Republican, but this year I may not vote that way because I'm a little upset,'' Mr. Nivault said. ''Every time you open the paper or listen to television, it gets worse and worse.''
 As Bert Miller, a retired chemical engineer, hauled groceries to his car, he said that he would still vote Republican even though he had soured on the party.
 Mr. Miller, 67, a fiscal conservative who moved here with his wife in 1998, said he was concerned about the war. But he is no less concerned about Republican spending gone amok. 
 ''Republicans have been a disappointment,'' Mr. Miller said. ''This president hasn't vetoed anything except one bill, on a social issue, stem cell research.'' 
 Mr. Miller said he yearned for old-fashioned Republican principles: tighter budgets and smaller government. ''Things have gotten crazy,'' he said. ''Let's get to work on the deficit and not same-sex marriage.''
 Russ Fisher-Ives, 51, a self-described liberal Republican, pulled up a chair at a restaurant on Route 66 in Bernalillo and said he was also disillusioned with the party. Mr. Fisher-Ives, who owns four acres nearby and moved here 31 years ago, said he did not know how he would vote. But the war in Iraq, once a more distant concern, has hit him hard, as has his distress over public education.
 ''This is another Vietnam; it's far bigger than Vietnam,'' said Mr. Fisher-Ives, an educator whose father once served as the Republican minority leader in the Connecticut Senate and as state treasurer. 
 Despite his Republican lineage, Mr. Fisher-Ives has contemplated switching parties, but then reconsidered. ''I feel like they still have to answer to me as a registered Republican,'' he said. ''I am not them. I am us.'' 
 For other Republicans, patriotism and safety remain a rallying cry; they would never think of straying, they said.
 Croft Edwards, 37, has lived in New Mexico most of his life. An Army reservist and family man, Mr. Edwards said that he was ''disappointed'' in the system, but that he strongly believed Republicans were better suited to handle Iraq. 
 ''Like George Bush or not, he likes to take action,'' Mr. Edwards said. 
 A Texas native, Beverly Maxie, 58, who fervently opposes abortion, agreed. As long as the war is being fought in Iraq -- not here -- Republicans are doing their job, Ms. Maxie said. ''I am confident that Republicans will stay in power,'' she added.
 For most Democrats, even those not always so keen on their party, the war and its repercussions are paramount. And there are other concerns: political scandals, health care, the environment, the economy.
 Molly Perez, 52, who is raising her grandchild, earns $10 an hour as a cashier at a supermarket and pays $800 a month in rent. She is barely making ends meet, Ms. Perez said, and high gasoline prices set her back considerably. She said she sometimes prayed that her beat-up Chevy Cavalier would remain road-worthy. 
 ''My life has gotten harder since the last election,'' Ms. Perez said. 
 She said she was so disheartened with the process, though, that she did not know whether she would vote in the House race. If she does, it will be unenthusiastically for Ms. Madrid.
 Ophelia Rinaldi, 73, a retired social worker, said she took the war in Iraq in stride until recently. Now, she said, ''it's pie in the sky,'' adding that it was ''drawing away all our resources.'' Ms. Rinaldi said she worried about health care and prescription drugs.
 Leslie Elgood, 51, a Democrat who works for New Mexico Community Capital, a community development fund in Bernalillo, said she usually tried to vote outside the box. But this year (she voted early), Ms. Elgood supported her party down the line to send a message. Her anger, she said, began with the war and has swelled with each new scandal. 
 ''The Democrats don't have a sense of my voice,'' she said, ''but I want to give them power now. Maybe they feel more chastened.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: OPHELIA RINALDI -- Retried social worker
 RUSS FISHER-IVES -- Educator (Photographs by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times) Map of New Mexico highlighting Placitas and Bernalillo: Placitas and Bernalillo are in New Mexico's First Congressional District, where there is a tight race.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); RELIGION (54%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Election Issues; Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HEATHER WILSON (78%); AL GORE (58%) Lizette Alvarez; Heather A (Rep) Wilson; Patricia (Atty Gen) Madrid

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) New Mexico; Bernalillo (Nm); Placitas (NM)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



549 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1840 words

HEADLINE: A History of Going Against the Grain With Republican Colleagues

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
In a Capitol where lawmakers have a lemming-like propensity to vote together, John Faso's willingness to go against the grain stood out.
 During his 16 years in the State Assembly, Mr. Faso voted time and again against bills that even most of his fellow Republicans supported. In an Assembly with 150 members, he cast the lone no vote more than two dozen times.
Mr. Faso, the Republican candidate for governor, voted against bills to expand prenatal care; educate homeless children; give more generous pensions to government workers; create check-off boxes on state tax forms for contributions to diabetes research; and tree planting. When every other member of the Assembly voted for legislation declaring that men and women should get equal pay for comparable work, Mr. Faso voted no.
 Mr. Faso asserts that his votes were not the result of a contrarian personality, or a sign that he is against trees or soft on diabetes. But they are an expression of his core political beliefs, that government has become too costly and complicated, and that taxpayers and businesses should decide how to spend their money, not elected officials. 
 ''The New York State Legislature passes many bills, but the law that's passed most frequently is the law of unintended consequences,'' Mr. Faso said in a recent interview, noting that one reason he opposed so many bills was that he actually read them and found them flawed.
 Mr. Faso's legislative record provides the clearest guide to how he might behave as governor. That record shows that he was one of Albany's most outspoken fiscal hawks, generally, though not always, opposing higher taxes and government spending. He was also a steadfast opponent of abortion rights, speaking out against spending state money on it, and was a proponent of tougher criminal laws. 
 Supporters of his Democratic rival, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, in the governor's race, say that Mr. Faso's record shows he is a conservative ideologue who is out of step with New York voters. Mr. Spitzer used their first debate to attack Mr. Faso's vote against the equal pay law, and to criticize a 1987 speech in which Mr. Faso called the Roe v. Wade decision legalizing abortion a ''black mark'' on the country. 
 Moderate Republicans in the state also tried to paint Mr. Faso as an extremist last spring when their candidate, William F. Weld, the former governor of Massachusetts, unsuccessfully sought the party's nomination for New York governor. 
 But Mr. Faso's supporters say that his votes underscore his best attributes: a stubborn independence, ideological consistency and political courage -- things a new governor will need to break Albany of its worst habits of trying to be all things to all people and all special interest groups, regardless of the cost.
 ''John Faso was never afraid to say no,'' said James N. Tedisco, one of Mr. Faso's successors as the leader of the Assembly Republicans.
 In some ways it was not hard for Mr. Faso to take ideologically consistent positions. As a member -- and eventually, leader -- of the smallest minority conference in Albany, the Assembly Republicans, he did not have to hammer out the tough compromises that come with being a member of the ruling party. 
 But even by those standards, Mr. Faso stood out for opposing bills that most Republicans supported. Sometimes they did so out of a fear that no votes on popular-sounding measures would be used against them by campaign rivals -- the very thing that Democrats are doing to Mr. Faso now.
 Mr. Faso was, for instance, one of only six legislators who voted against a bill to prohibit law enforcement agencies from asking rape victims to take lie detector tests. Mr. Faso said in the interview that the agencies were already prohibited from requiring such tests, and that he thought prohibiting them from even requesting the tests could tie their hands in cases where they were trying to buttress a victim's case.
 He was also one of only eight lawmakers to oppose a measure to make it a felony for prison guards and other corrections and parole workers to have sex with inmates in their custody. An aide said that Mr. Faso felt the bill went too far. 
 Both measures became law.
 But a close look at Mr. Faso's record in Albany also suggests that he was not as ideologically pure, or reliably conservative, as either his supporters or opponents contend. 
 Mr. Faso, for example, sponsored the law that allowed his home county, Columbia County, to raise its local sales tax by 1 percent in 1995 to balance its budget. 
 And while Mr. Faso was often the lone lawmaker opposing pension sweeteners for government workers, he sponsored a bill to improve the pensions of some Columbia County Sheriff's Department workers; Gov. George E. Pataki vetoed the bill, saying it was too generous. 
 Mr. Faso said he sponsored the bills at the county's request.

Breaking Ranks
 Mr. Faso was not always conservative when it came to social issues, either. In 2002, for instance, he broke with many Republicans and supported the bill that banned discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Mr. Faso has a gay brother.
 And during his last years in the Assembly -- which he left in 2002 to mount a close, but ultimately unsuccessful, race for comptroller -- Mr. Faso voted for several major bills that did not seem fiscally conservative. 
 He voted, for instance, for the two most expensive pension sweeteners in recent memory, even though he was one of the few lawmakers who usually took a tough line on increasing pension benefits. 
 One granted retirees automatic cost-of-living increases tied to the rate of inflation. The other allowed most state workers to stop contributing to their pensions after 10 years of employment. Together, the two laws have added billions of dollars to the pension costs that are paid for by state and local taxpayers.
 Mr. Faso said that he now regrets supporting the pension enhancements. In this campaign for governor, he has called for allowing state and local governments to offer new workers 401(k)-style savings plans in place of the traditional pensions given to current government workers.

Captain of the Budget Team
 When Governor Pataki was elected in 1994, he chose Mr. Faso to be chairman of his budget transition team, citing Mr. Faso's record of opposing taxes and spending and strong grasp of fiscal issues. 
 The team had a tough assignment. It had only a few months to assemble a budget team and to devise a plan to close a large deficit that was revealed after the election, while keeping Mr. Pataki's campaign promise to cut taxes. The Faso team did it. 
 Mr. Faso helped recruit Patricia A. Woodworth, a former budget director in Michigan, as Governor Pataki's first budget director. She said Mr. Faso played an important role in the budget process.
 ''We needed someone who could tell us where the bodies were buried,'' recalled Ms. Woodworth, now the executive vice president for finance and administration at the Art Institute of Chicago. ''He certainly has an in-depth knowledge of both the budget and the legislative process, and a good understanding of the people that are involved.''
 But while Governor Pataki's first budgets were austere, his later budgets raised state spending well above the rate of inflation, and Mr. Faso supported many of them. 
 Mr. Faso even voted for the 2002 budget, which was widely denounced by fiscal watchdogs at the time for raising state spending even after the national economy had cooled and the state economy had been devastated by the World Trade Center attack. 
 After Mr. Pataki won re-election that year, his office announced that the 2002 budget had left the state with a $2 billion gap in the remainder of the year, and a $10 billion gap the following year -- gaps that led the Legislature to raise taxes in 2003. 
 Asked why he supported the 2002 budget, Mr. Faso said, ''I don't think you ever voted for or against any budget without having qualms or concerns about it.''
 As a leader of the Assembly minority, Mr. Faso spent much of his time trying to thwart, or at least embarrass, the Democratic majority. Few bills he introduced ever became law. But some of them influenced debate in Albany. 
 Mr. Faso said, for instance, that he was the original Assembly sponsor of a bill establishing charter schools, an idea promoted by conservatives as a way to reduce the influence of unions and bureaucrats on schools. 
 The measure became law in a somewhat different form after Governor Pataki fought for the idea. 
 Mr. Faso also sponsored a bill calling for the civil confinement of sex offenders, which gained broad support but has not become law because of differences between the Assembly and the State Senate.
 He also pushed for the passage of bills ending parole for violent felons, and sponsored legislation that would allow schools to perform drug tests without parental consent, and to allow first-time marijuana offenders to face jail time. 
 He sponsored a bill to speed the end of rent control in New York City; Mr. Faso now says that he supports existing rent laws.

Caution With Legislation
 In the recent interview, Mr. Faso said that as a legislator, he was often trying to prevent the unforeseen consequences and needless burdens that hastily drawn or poorly conceived legislation could create.
 He said, for instance, that he opposed the equal pay bill for women because it called for equal pay for ''comparable'' work, not for equal work. He said that the bill, which never passed in the Senate, raised the possibility that the state would require employers to give equal pay for what was actually different work.
 He also asserted that he is closer to the political mainstream than the Democratic attacks on his record suggest. On abortion rights, for example, he said that many legal scholars have expressed qualms about the Roe decision, and added that many New Yorkers support parental notification laws, as he does, and are uncomfortable with using Medicaid funds to pay for the procedure. 
 Mr. Faso said that he made the right votes, even if some of them sounded bad when compressed into sound bites. He pointed to criticism that was aimed at him this year for a 1988 vote against creating an institute named for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The inference was that he was somehow soft on civil rights. In fact, he said, he voted against the bill because it lacked fiscal controls, and the institute eventually closed amid serious questions about its finances. 
 ''You can't tell a book by its cover, and you can't tell a law by its title,'' Mr. Faso said. ''I can remember when I was minority leader, telling members that they have to be careful with some of these votes, because they would be used against them.'' 
 Time, he said, proved him correct.

The Road to Albany
 This is the second of two articles profiling John Faso, the Republican candidate for governor of New York. Previous articles have profiled the Democratic candidate, Eliot Spitzer. The series is online at nytimes.com/nyregion.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Faso, on the Assembly floor in 1997, was a point man on budget issues. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 35)
 John Faso, right, former Assembly minority leader, at a 2001 budget meeting with Republican senators. (Photo by David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (88%); ABORTION (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (74%); EQUAL PAY (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); DIABETES (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (69%); CHILDREN (56%); HOMELESSNESS (56%) Election Issues; Biographical Information; Taxation; Budgets and Budgeting; Abortion; Surveys and Series

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) John J Faso; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006



550 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico, an Island in Distress

 BODY:
After decades of economic progress, Puerto Rico is struggling, and the mainland has both missed this horrific economic slide and contributed to it through benign neglect. 
 Poverty on the island is rampant. The per capita income is just about half that of the poorest state in the United States. Nearly one-third of the population was unemployed in 2000. And a good quarter of all employment is in government jobs. If the goal is more than survival, the bloated public payroll will need to be significantly pared back.
 The bleak picture is set out in a long-overdue, exhaustive study -- ''The Economy of Puerto Rico: Restoring Growth'' -- from the Center for the New Economy, a nonpartisan Puerto Rican research group, and the Brookings Institution. 
 Much of the blame can be put on Washington, which has been tone deaf to the island's needs and has miscalculated where help was needed. Even a good idea, like the Section 936 program of tax incentives, was mismanaged. Before it was phased out last year, it had succeeded in bringing many pharmaceutical concerns to the island, but produced relatively few jobs and at so high a cost that a $40,000 position cost the government $70,000.
 The study is spurring a debate over welfare and other social programs. Some of the economists' prescriptions are harsh, including curtailment of food stamps. But part of the mission seems to be shock therapy. That may work and might even help to get policy makers on the search for solutions. The key to the island's future will be charting a direction that includes capitalizing on the island's open economy to create jobs for home-grown talent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (52%) Editorials; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%) Center for the New Economy (Orgn); Brookings Institution

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) Puerto Rico

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



551 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Don't Make Nice

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Now that the Democrats are strongly favored to capture at least one house of Congress, they're getting a lot of unsolicited advice, with many people urging them to walk and talk softly if they win. 
 I hope the Democrats don't follow this advice -- because it's bad for their party and, more important, bad for the country. In the long run, it's even bad for the cause of bipartisanship.
There are those who say that a confrontational stance will backfire politically on the Democrats. These are by and large the same people who told Democrats that attacking the Bush administration over Iraq would backfire in the midterm elections. Enough said. 
 Political considerations aside, American voters deserve to have their views represented in Congress. And according to opinion polls, most Americans are actually to the left of Congressional Democrats on issues such as health care. 
 In particular, the public wants politicians to stand up to corporate interests. This is clear from the latest Newsweek poll, which shows overwhelming public support for the agenda Nancy Pelosi has laid out for her first 100 hours if she becomes House speaker. The strongest support is for her plan to have Medicare negotiate with drug companies for lower prices, which is supported by 74 percent of Americans -- and by 70 percent of Republicans!
 What the make-nice crowd wants most of all is for the Democrats to forswear any investigations into the origins of the Iraq war and the cronyism and corruption that undermined it. But it's very much in the national interest to find out what led to the greatest strategic blunder in American history, so that it won't happen again.
 What's more, the public wants to know. A large majority of Americans believe both that invading Iraq was a mistake, and that the Bush administration deliberately misled us into war. And according to the Newsweek poll, 58 percent of Americans believe that investigating contracting in Iraq isn't just a good idea, but a high priority; 52 percent believe the same about investigating the origins of the war.
 Why, then, should the Democrats hold back? Because, we're told, the country needs less divisiveness. And I, too, would like to see a return to kinder, gentler politics. But that's not something Democrats can achieve with a group hug and a chorus of ''Kumbaya.'' 
 The reason we have so much bitter partisanship these days is that that's the way the radicals who have taken over the Republican Party want it. People like Grover Norquist, who once declared that ''bipartisanship is another name for date rape,'' push for a hard-right economic agenda; people like Karl Rove make that agenda politically feasible, even though it's against the interests of most voters, by fostering polarization, using religion and national security as wedge issues. 
 As long as polarization is integral to the G.O.P.'s strategy, Democrats can't do much, if anything, to narrow the partisan divide. 
 Even if they try to act in a bipartisan fashion, their opponents will find a way to divide the nation -- which is what happened to the great surge of national unity after 9/11. One thing we might learn from investigations is the extent to which the Iraq war itself was motivated by the desire to have another wedge issue.
 There are those who believe that the partisan gap can be bridged if the Democrats nominate an attractive presidential candidate who speaks in uplifting generalities. But they must have been living under a rock these past 15 or so years. Whoever the Democrats nominate will feel the full force of the Republican slime machine. And it doesn't matter if conservatives have nice things to say about a Democrat now. Once the campaign gets serious, they'll suddenly question his or her patriotism and discover previously unmentioned but grievous character flaws.
 The truth is that we won't get a return to bipartisanship until or unless the G.O.P. decides that polarization doesn't work as a political strategy. The last great era of bipartisanship began after the 1948 election, when Republicans, shocked by Harry Truman's victory, decided to stop trying to undo the New Deal. And that example suggests that the best thing the Democrats can do, not just for their party and their country, but for the cause of bipartisanship, is what Truman did: stand up strongly for their principles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); HISTORY (64%); CORRUPTION (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%) 

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (58%); KARL ROVE (54%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



552 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: In Deregulation, Power Plants Turn Into Blue Chips

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Four big investment firms bought a group of Texas power plants in 2004 for $900 million and sold them the next year for $5.8 billion. 
 Sempra Energy, parent of the utility in San Diego, bought nine Texas power plants with two partners in 2004 for $430 million, selling two of them less than two years later for more than $1.6 billion.
Goldman Sachs and its partners bought power plants in upstate New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio starting in 1998 and sold them in 2001 at a profit of more than $1 billion. 
 These extraordinary profits have come during a decade-long effort in about half the states to overhaul the business of producing electricity -- in the name of stimulating competition and lowering utility bills. 
 But even as some investors have profited handsomely by buying and sometimes quickly reselling power plants, electricity customers, who were supposed to be the biggest beneficiaries of the new system, have not fared so well. Not only have their electricity rates not fallen, in many cases they are rising even faster than the prices of the fuels used to make the electricity. Those increases stand in contrast to the significantly lower prices in other businesses in which competition was introduced, such as airlines and long-distance calling.
 Some electricity customers are also being saddled with monthly surcharges to cover construction costs for plants that were sold at bargain prices and then resold at huge profits. Some of these surcharges will continue for years.
 Analysts cite several reasons that the new system has not been as successful as hoped. 
 Regulators required some utilities to sell their power plants so that independent electricity producers could compete on equal footing with those plants. But not enough new competitors emerged.
 And sometimes regulators allowed utility holding companies to transfer plants from their regulated utilities to unregulated wholly owned subsidiaries. When some of these unregulated sister companies still found it hard to turn a profit, regulators allowed the plants to become regulated companies again, so they were virtually guaranteed state-approved profit rates. 
 By last year, only 63 percent of the nation's electricity generating capacity was owned by utilities, down from almost 90 percent 10 years ago. Often customers did not come out ahead, critics of the new system say. 
 Take the case of the Texas power plants. After the Texas Legislature, urged by Enron and big industrial customers, voted to make electricity generation a competitive business, the utility serving the Houston area sold 60 power plants that generate most of the power for the area to four investment firms -- the Texas Pacific Group, the Blackstone Group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Hellman & Friedman -- which soon resold the plants at the $5 billion profit.
 But state regulators have ordered electricity customers to pay an average of $4.75 monthly for 14 years to finish paying for the construction of the power plants, plus interest.
 And the utility that sold the plants, Centerpoint, is suing for even higher payments from customers. Houston-area consumers now pay among the highest electricity rates, nearly double the national average.
 Supporters of deregulation said customers would benefit from healthy competition among a growing number of electricity producers. But such competition has not developed. For one thing, many of the new power plants failed because, unlike many of the old plants, they almost all used natural gas to produce electricity. Demand for natural gas soared, and the price for that fuel tripled, making electricity from these plants too costly to be competitive. 
 The value of these plants collapsed, and some owners sought refuge in bankruptcy court. That is when investment firms, anticipating a much higher price for the plants' electricity, bought them for as little as 20 cents for each dollar spent to build them.
 And in fact the investment firms calculated doubly right: By paying so little for the plants, they made the construction costs of new plants by competitors seem prohibitively expensive. Over the last five years, few new power plants have been built, although demand for electricity has risen.
 The story has been different for electricity customers. Many of the power plants that were sold are still owned by the utilities' parent companies; they were simply transferred from the regulated utilities to unregulated sister companies. Some regulators allowed utilities to favor the sister companies with long-term contracts even if they did not offer the best price for electricity. 
 In fact, independent electricity producers argue that their modern generating plants often sit idle while older, inefficient plants owned by politically powerful utilities and their unregulated sister companies whir around the clock under long-term contracts. For example, Calpine, an independent generating company, and some big industrial customers have complained that Entergy, the Louisiana utility holding company, is favoring its own plants when Calpine's power would be cheaper. Congress has ordered studies of the issue. 
 Because utilities are still allowed to pass on the cost of the power they buy, they have little incentive to choose a cheaper supplier. Electricity customers therefore end up paying more than they would have to if electricity production were truly competitive. 
 After Baltimore Gas & Electric transferred its 12 power plants to an unregulated affiliate and became only a distribution company, it continued to buy 70 percent of its electricity from the plants because there were not enough independent generators to supply the area's needs. Baltimore Gas & Electric sought a 72 percent rate increase this year, causing such an outcry that Maryland regulators gave it only an immediate 15 percent, but with big additional increases virtually guaranteed over the next few years.
 Paul Allen, a spokesman for the utility's parent company, Constellation Energy, said that Baltimore Gas & Electric rates had been frozen since 1993 and that the increase largely reflected the higher price of producing electricity, including the cost of fuel. He said a rate increase was inevitable regardless of the new system.
 But Robert McCullough, a utility economist and consultant, disagreed and blamed the new system. He said that in places like Baltimore, where a utility's plants were sold to an unregulated sister company, ''the same energy is generated by the same plants, owned by the same owners, and sold to the same customers, simply at a vastly higher price.''
 Ralph Nader, head of the watchdog group Public Citizen, said that many power plants were sold for artificially low prices and that state regulators often failed to protect customers. He said regulators should have required price protection to shield consumers from a ''double header corporate gouge, where the defenseless customer is paying twice for the same power plants.''
 The American Electric Power Company, which owns utilities in 11 states, sold nine of its Texas power plants to SEMPRA, the parent of a San Diego utility company, and the Carlyle Group in 2004 for $430 million. SEMPRA and Carlyle quickly resold two of the plants for $1.6 billion.
 American Electric wanted customers to pay an average of $9 a month for 14 years to cover the difference between the cost of building the plants and the lower price for which it sold them, plus interest. But because the resold plants went for 15 times as much per unit of generating capacity, state regulators questioned whether the utility should have sold the plants for higher prices. Still, regulators have required customers to pay on average $5 per month for 14 years, or more than $800 each.
 There are persistent allegations that many plants have become inordinately profitable for their new owners; in some cases, disputes have arisen over just how profitable the plants are. In Connecticut, three plants together earn at least $700 million in annual profits, money that is over and above the 10 percent profit they would earn if they were still in the regulated system, Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said. He wants the state to end the new system and return to a more regulated system or even have a state agency provide power. 
 The plant owners, P.S.E.& G. and Dominion, said that the profit estimates were ''wildly exaggerated'' and that most of the power was sold at fixed prices with profits not significantly different from what regulated plants would earn. They did not release precise profit figures. 
 In Ohio, the state's consumer advocate, Janine Migden-Ostrander, said the potential savings from a competitive electricity industry were undercut by favoritism that regulators showed to utility companies.
 In effect, she said, Ohio regulators allowed an extremely favorable price when unregulated sister companies acquired power plants. The lower the price a sister company pays for a power plant, the more difficult it is for an independent power producer that must build an expensive new plant to compete. That ''is how the utilities killed the market before it could be started,'' she said. 
 Lynn Hargis, a longtime utility regulation lawyer who now volunteers as counsel to Public Citizen, said the terms under which power plants were sold are ''the equivalent of selling your grandmother's house for the price she paid 60 years ago, less depreciation. No one would do that.''
 The utilities say that no one knew at the time the plants were sold that they would later soar in value. Floyd Le Blanc, a spokesman for Centerpoint, the Texas company that sold the 60 Houston-area plants, said, ''We complied with all legal and regulatory requirements.'' His remarks were echoed by other utilities.
 But even after buying plants at low prices, some utilities have been unable to profit in a competitive setting after decades of operating in a regulated market, where profits are virtually guaranteed. State governments have provided a refuge.
 Corporate parents with both regulated utilities and unregulated power plant companies have persuaded sometimes reluctant regulators to allow them to put failing plants into the hands of the regulated utilities, where they were almost certain to turn a profit, said Richard Stavros, executive editor of Public Utilities Fortnightly, a trade magazine. That has happened in Arizona, Missouri, Texas and other states. 
 Arizona Public Service, for example, brought five plants owned by its unregulated affiliate, Pinnacle Energy West, into the utility. The staff of the state board that regulates utilities at first opposed the deal, saying it was not in the best economic interests of customers. But the staff relented after Arizona Public Service promised it would not add any power plants to its regulated operations before 2015, which may encourage others to enter the market.
 The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission recently approved a deal to move a Texas power plant back into a regulated utility, although it expressed concern that allowing utilities' parent companies to salvage their failed investments in the competitive market could be unfair to competing generating companies.
 The sale back to utilities of power plants that are not making money is ''a disturbing national trend,'' said Jan Smutny-Jones, executive director of Independent Energy Producers in Sacramento, Calif., a trade association for power plant owners.
 ''It's a great deal,'' he said, ''having ratepayers cover your managerial mistakes.''

Power Play
 Articles in this series will examine the decade-long effort to overhaul the nation's electricity system.


(pg. A17)

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the profits that investment firms have made in the sale of power plants misstated the relationship between the watchdog group Public Citizen and Ralph Nader, who criticized state regulators for not protecting consumers during the sales. He is the group's founder, not its president. (Joan Claybrook serves as president.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the most expensive electricity in the United States flows through power lines to residential customers near downtown Houston. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. A17)Chart: ''A Utility Deal With a Few Big Winners''Many utilities have sold their power plants and today only distribute electricity, a change that has enriched some investors but has required customers to bear some of the cost. Here is what happened in one such deal, for plants in Texas.1999The Texas Legislature, at the urging of Enron and big industrial customers, votes to make electricity generation a competitive business over objections of consumer groups and some utilities, like the Houston utility Centerpoint. Power costs about 9 cents a kilowatt-hour.2002Centerpoint creates an unregulated subsidiary, Texas Genco, which runs 60 power plants that generate most of the power used in the Houston area.2004Centerpoint's Texas Genco power plants are sold for $900 million plus debt to four private investment firms: Texas Pacific Group, Blackstone Group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Hellman & Friedman. But Centerpoint says electricity customers still owe $3.7 billion for the cost of building those plants.2005Texas regulators rule that electricity customers owe $2.3 billion
Centerpoint sues, saying it should get the full $3.7 billion
 the case is still in court. The new owners resell the power plants to NRG Energy of Princeton, N.J., for $5.9 billion plus debt, making a profit of $5 billion in 18 months. Customers get no benefit from the deal.2006State regulators require customers to pay an average of $4.75 monthly for 14 years to finish paying for the construction of the power plants, plus interest. Houston-area consumers now pay among the highest electricity rates in the nation, about 16 cents a kilowatt-hour, double the national average.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); DEREGULATION (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (64%) Electric Light and Power; Surveys and Series; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Factories and Industrial Plants; Electric Light and Power; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: SEMPRA ENERGY (91%); KKR & CO LP (61%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%); TPG CAPITAL LP (51%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (50%)

TICKER: SRE (NYSE) (91%); KKR (NYSE) (61%); BX (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



553 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: New York, Los Angeles, Olathe? Rent's Bite Is Big in Kansas, Too

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: OLATHE, Kan. 

 BODY:
New census data shows that people are paying more of their income for housing in almost every part of the country. And it is hardly surprising that places like Southern California and Manhattan are high on the list. 
 But Olathe? In northeast Kansas?
Olathe (pronounced oh-LAY-thuh), 20 miles southwest of Kansas City, showed the biggest jump in the percentage of people paying at least 30 percent of their income on rent, as well as in those paying at least 50 percent on rent.
 In a largely rural state not known for growth or overwhelming prosperity, here is a minimetropolis of manmade neighborhood waterfalls, of seemingly endless construction of shopping malls and office parks. Executives and immigrant workers, retirees and young families have all been drawn to its abundance of jobs, parks and high-performing public schools.
 ''It's basically been a supernova in terms of its growth,'' said Arthur P. Hall, the executive director of the Center for Applied Economics at the University of Kansas School of Business. ''It's a major suburb of Kansas City and for whatever reason has become the place to go. And that I can't explain.'' 
 Ever since Olathe's days as a stagecoach stop on the old Santa Fe Trail there have been newcomers at the crossroads here, usually to take a rest and to move on. But as this prairie town and former bedroom community of close to 120,000 looks back to celebrate its 150th birthday, it is clear what has changed: people come to stay. And they pay a lot to do it. 
 ''We grow 10 people a day, every single day,'' Mayor Michael Copeland boasts, and population statistics back him up: Olathe has expanded by about 4,000 people a year for the past several years. 
 Since 1980, the population has more than tripled. And in the last five years, the average price for a new home has doubled to about $350,000.
 The census data was collected before the real estate market began softening over the last year, and it was based on a small sample size, experts cautioned. And at the high economic end, Olathe is dominated by homeowners who can afford their properties without mortgages, in one of the most prosperous counties in the country. 
 But still, that a city in the Great Plains surrounded by farmland registered at all on such a list of expensive places left some regional economic analysts scratching their heads.
 Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College in New York who analyzed the national data, which came from the 2005 American Community Survey, said: ''The rental burden is off the tracks there. Over all, a lot of people were stunned by the massive increases in the Midwest.''
 DeeDee Palermo is one Olathe resident who feels crushed under the weight of the local housing market.
 ''I'm a single mom and I can't make it on my own here, so I live with my mother,'' said Ms. Palermo, 51, a retail store supervisor. ''We've had all this massive growth, but for some people, things are worse than ever. I work full time plus some, and I can't find a place to move to. Landlords want $800 and $1,300 a month. I just say, 'What? That's impossible!' ''
 Ms. Palermo, 51, earns $8.75 an hour. She moved her family to Olathe a few years ago because she thought they could live better here than in Southern California or Arizona, where Ms. Palermo held a variety of jobs. She is disappointed. ''You can't make it here unless you pair up,'' she said. ''I can't even think about owning a home.''
 The census data crystallized what many here like Ms. Palmero already knew: the housing burden is not carried uniformly, and it is particularly daunting for those with low or stagnant wages who have had to deal with the reality of escalating real estate costs. In that respect, some say, Kansas is not all that different from Manhattan or anyplace else. 
 But compounding the problem here is that growth has happened so quickly, the housing market is neither mature nor diversified, local economists and real estate agents said. Most new construction is expensive and geared toward single-family ownership. 
 The new economics are particularly hard on renters and those in search of affordable houses to buy, as is typically the case in fast-growth suburbs and exurbs around the country. Single-family homes designed for owner occupancy yield greater returns to developers and municipalities than cheaper multifamily or rental units. That reality often results in lopsided development favoring families with lots of money to spend on upscale housing.
 ''As communities develop, they tend to attract higher and higher prices for housing, and the community becomes more attractive,'' said Dean Katerndahl, an analyst at the Mid-America Regional Council, a planning organization for greater Kansas City. ''We're trying to advocate that there needs to be more variety in choices of housing, in the price basis but also in types.''
 In and around Olathe, a name from the Shawnee word for beautiful, corporate headquarters dot the grassy landscape. Sprint, Honeywell and Garmin International, to name a few, are major corporations that have brought thousands of jobs to the area in recent years. 
 A number of office parks are under construction, as are more than a dozen residential subdivisions. The city has added more than 30,000 jobs in the last five years by marketing itself to information-age companies and emphasizing the convenience of its location in the middle of America.
 ''We are really the suburb of the entire nation,'' Mayor Copeland said. ''You can get anywhere in three hours for $300.''
 Olathe prides itself on its growing stock of executive-style housing for those whom Mr. Copeland calls ''our captains of industry.'' Custom-designed houses on landscaped streets with garage space for three or more cars are common. 
 Still, census figures show that per capita income is $28,373, and for those who do not own a home, the median rent is $676 for what is typically a six-room apartment. 
 Since 2000, the portion of the city's population paying more than 35 percent of its income to rent grew to 42 percent from 19 percent, the same data shows. It also says there are almost three times as many owner-occupied units here than rental units, which number about 10,700.
 The poverty rate is also increasing, because the area's growth is also attracting people with lower incomes. 
 In interviews, city officials tended to say that the housing stock was sufficiently varied and, while expressing concern about growing poverty, showed a sense of pride in Olathe's costliness.
 ''I think that's a sign of success,'' Mr. Copeland said. ''It shows people are willing to pay a lot to live here.''
 Susan Sherman, the assistant city manager, said, ''It might just be that the location comes with such amenities that they're willing to spend their hard-earned dollars on it.'' She added, ''We don't have mountains or oceans, but we have some of the greatest people.''
 Some builders and residents say the growing lack of low-cost housing cannot be viewed as good. 
 ''It's been unfortunate from our perspective in the last few years to see so many people who'd like to live in Olathe not be able to because the housing prices have gone up so much,'' said Matt Derrick, the spokesman for the Home Builders Association of Greater Kansas City. ''We have builders who say, I can't build housing that my kids could afford to live in. That's when it really starts to hit home.''
 The growth in Olathe through the 1990's was driven, incidentally, by what was then its affordable housing and by the rapidly developing high-tech industries here, experts said. But, over the years, demand for the area has priced out some long-term residents and newcomers whose wages are moderate to low -- mainly the workers in retail and construction, whose numbers have been steadily increasing, too. 
 City officials could not say exactly where the newcomers have been coming from, but they sense that much of the migration is from rapidly depopulating farm counties in western Kansas, and from similarly struggling regions around the Midwest. The city also has a growing Latino population.
 ''We ask the same questions: Where are the new people from? And why are they coming here?'' said Ms. Sherman, the assistant city manager. 
 Last year, there was an increase in the number of permits issued for attached housing and large apartment complexes, which may ease some of the housing burden.
 Forty families are on a waiting list for emergency housing provided by the Salvation Army. More than 800 families applied in August for food assistance at the local Catholic Charities office. But looking around the well-kept city, it is hard to see signs of struggle. Even older neighborhoods and strip malls are neat, and the streets and highways are humming with traffic. 
 ''There isn't a stereotypical ghetto here, you're not going to see skid row,'' said Shirley Kelso, the manager of the Family Support Center at Catholic Charities. ''It's a different kind of below-the-surface thing. Most of our folks are working and spending half or more of their disposable income on shelter, and that doesn't leave a lot.''
 Tamara Fiehler finds herself in exactly that situation. Ms. Fiehler is behind on her mortgage payments and is training for a new job that does not pay until she begins working. ''My money goes toward my kids and their lunches and clothes,'' she said. ''I've used up my savings trying to pay the mortgage, and I can't anymore.''
 Ms. Fiehler, 44, said she had thought about moving someplace cheaper but could not afford to leave her three-bedroom ranch house in Olathe.
 ''I'm very happy with the schools, and that's one good reason to be here,'' she said. ''Plus, I'd have to get up on my feet before I'd have enough money to go anywhere else.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: DeeDee Palermo, 51, lives with her mother. ''Landlords want $800 and $1,300 a month,'' she said. ''I just say, 'What? That's impossible!' '' (Photos by Don Ipock for The New York Times)
Dillon Funk, 11, on the Prairie Highlands Golf Course in Olathe, Kan. Nearby, residential construction favors single-family homes for purchase. (Photo by Thad Allender for The New York Times)(pg. A16)Map of Kansas highlighting Olathe. (pg. A16)Chart:Percentage of renters spending more than 30 percent of their income on rent.Olathe, Kan.2005: 54.1%New York City2005: 51.4San Francisco2005: 45(Sources by Census Bureau
 Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CENSUS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); MAYORS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (65%); IMMIGRATION (54%); RETAILERS (54%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (55%)

PERSON: Susan Saulny

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) KANSAS, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Olathe (Kan)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



554 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Panamanians Vote Overwhelmingly to Expand Canal

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: GUATEMALA CITY, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
Panamanians on Sunday overwhelmingly endorsed a plan to modernize the country's aging canal, won over by government arguments that the $5.25 billion project would generate jobs and keep the canal relevant for future generations.
 ''Panama is betting on its future,'' said President Martin Torrijos, chief backer of the plan, after casting his ballot on Sunday morning in a nationwide referendum.
 The overhaul, to begin next year, will double the canal's capacity by adding a third set of locks that are 40 percent longer and 60 percent wider than the current ones. Constructed by the United States in 1914, the canal these days is congested and too small to handle the world's largest container vessels and tankers. 
 Opposition to the project was vigorous as skeptics questioned the government's cost estimates and raised fears that corruption would doom the project.
 But the government's campaign for the expansion, the largest modernization of the canal in its history, was even more intense. Officials portrayed a ''si'' vote as a vote for the children of Panama. Without an expanded canal, officials predicted, shipping traffic would find other routes and Panama's growing economy would dry up.
 The canal, 50 miles long, employs 8,000 Panamanians and is a source of national pride, as well as foreign currency. But even as skyscrapers go up at a furious pace in a downtown Panama City that has hints of Miami, 40 percent of the country's three million residents live in poverty.
 All the same, preliminary results gave the expansion plan just shy of 80 percent support, far more than the simple majority required. A referendum is required for major changes to the canal, a provision of the law meant to give the people ownership of a resource that had long been in the hands of foreigners. Still, most voters stayed away from the polls Sunday, with turnout estimated at about 40 percent.
 The approval is a victory for the Torrijos administration, which staked its reputation on the project. The current president's father, Gen. Omar Torrijos, negotiated in the 1970's for the United States to hand over the canal to the Panamanians. The canal changed hands in 1999.
 The government backed off an earlier overhaul plan that would have displaced thousands of Panamanians by expanding the lake used to raise and lower ships as they navigate between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. No residents will be displaced under the current proposal, officials said.
 The expansion, which will be financed by loans and higher fees charged to shippers, is scheduled to be completed in 2014. Canal officials predict that a decade afterward the expanded canal will generate $6 billion a year, far more than the $1.4 billion expected this year.
 ''We've gotten a clear mandate,'' Jorge Quijano, the Canal Authority's maritime operations director, said in a telephone interview Sunday night. ''We now have an opportunity to continue to grow.''
 Ferdinand de Lesseps, a Frenchman who was the builder of the Suez Canal, began work on the Panama Canal in 1880 but abandoned it after the project went bust. Leaders in Washington, eager to control the Americas, took over the project in 1904 and finished it within a decade. It cost $375 million, making it the most expensive project the government had ever undertaken.
 American vessels remain the biggest users of the canal, followed by Chinese and Japanese ships, according to the Panama Canal Authority, the operator. The canal handles about 4 percent of global trade.
 The expansion will not rely on the aid of foreign governments, an outgrowth of Panama's desire to go it alone after decades of standing by as the Americans operated the canal. Many foreigners and Panamanians alike doubted that the Panamanian government could handle operation of the canal. But profits have grown over the last seven years, and operations have continued smoothly.
 Nicaragua announced last month that it was planning its own canal, although analysts doubt that its $18 billion public-private project, which would use the 60-mile-wide Lake Nicaragua, has much chance of success. Its chances might have improved had the Panama Canal expansion been rejected.
 As they lined up around the countryside to weigh in on the canal's fate, most Panamanians seemed to have concluded that their futures and that of the canal were one.
 ''This country needs this project to join the first world,'' Joaquin Rodriguez, 48, a businessman wearing a green ''yes'' T-shirt, told Reuters.
 Faustino Ortega, 41, a mechanic, agreed. ''If you've got a business, you've got to do what you can to improve it, make it more competitive,'' he told The Associated Press. ''The canal is big business for all of Panama. Widening it will help the economy.''
 But concerns about the project remain, even among those who voted for it. ''The expansion is necessary, but we all have to watch closely, make sure there isn't embezzlement and corruption,'' said Igor Meneses, 34, an advertising executive. ''With that kind of money, there's a lot to steal.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A map with an article on Monday about the referendum in which modernization of the Panama Canal was approved misspelled the name of a section of the canal. It is the Gaillard Cut, not the Galliard Cut.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ships cross the Panama Canal, while others wait. The addition of a third lane and other improvements are expected to double the canal's capacity. (Photo by Jose Miguel/Reuters)Chart/Map: ''A Third Lane, Twice the Traffic''Among improvements proposed for the Panama Canal that will double its capacity, a third lane will be added with new three-step locks at either end. The new locks will have three sets of reutilization basins, which can raise and lower water levels without the use of pumps, for each step.Maps of the Panama Canal highlight the planned three-step locks, existing channel, and new channel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (88%); MARINE SHIPPING (88%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); ETHICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); POVERTY RATES (70%); MARINE TANKERS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); DISPLACED PERSONS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Referendums ; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics

PERSON: Marc Lacey; Martin (Pres) Torrijos

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); GUATEMALA (79%) Panama Canal; Panama Canal

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



555 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2275 words

HEADLINE: Out to Show He's Not Just an Old New Jersey Name

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
When Thomas H. Kean Jr. first ran for public office, in a crowded Republican primary for a House seat in 2000, he was blindsided by a campaign flier from one of his opponents that cribbed from Mr. Kean's own resume.
 Drawing attention to selected items via circles and bullet points, the leaflet belittled Mr. Kean's experience, arguing that he, the fortunate son of a popular former governor, had never demonstrated any leadership skills beyond organizing a canoe trip down the length of the Danube River after graduating from Dartmouth.
As Mr. Kean, now a state senator, tries again to land a job in Congress -- this time to fill a Senate seat formerly held by his great-grandfather and great-great-uncle -- he must still persuade skeptics that he possesses more than just a revered political name. After all, he was appointed not once but twice to legislative posts, winning elections only when he already had the incumbent's advantage, and as a member of the minority party for most of his tenure, he has had few legislative victories. 
 To admirers, Mr. Kean, 38, has matured into a thoughtful and attentive lawmaker, distinguishing himself in ethics, environmental protection and health care. Hardly doctrinaire, he has espoused positions that are moderate, though clearly more conservative than those of his father, former Gov. Thomas H. Kean. And he has demonstrated political grit in a surprisingly ferocious campaign to unseat the incumbent, Robert Menendez, in what national Republican leaders believe is probably their best chance to capture a Democratic Senate seat.
 ''Here was the problem in 2000: There was a sense of entitlement that this should be his Congressional seat because his name was Kean,'' said Kevin Collins, a Republican political consultant. ''But this guy is light years ahead of where he was.''
 Often described as one of the most affable people in New Jersey politics, Mr. Kean may well utter the honorific ''sir'' more frequently than any other legislator. But behind that toothy overbite of a grin is a man who even some Republicans say can be too accommodating and cautious, leaving the impression that he wants to avoid offending anyone for the sake of future political positioning. 
 Mr. Kean, asked during a debate last week about his biggest weakness, explained, ''I simply want to include as many people as possible in the decision-making process.'' 
 But one politician's nuanced thinking can be a critic's flip-flopping.

Walking Fine Lines
 Over five years in Trenton and while campaigning this year across the state, Mr. Kean has cast votes or staked out blurry positions on issues including raising the minimum wage, privatization of Social Security, public funding for stem-cell research and gay rights. 
 ''He's trying to appeal to everyone, and at the end of the day he risks appealing to no one,'' said Mayor Steve Lonegan of Bogota, one of New Jersey's leading conservative Republicans. ''You need to make clear, articulate decisions and let your base know where you stand on issues, and you should explain why. And when you disagree, you have to be credible, and I think that's one of his weaknesses.''
 Mr. Kean is now New Jersey's youngest full-time legislator in an institution whose members typically hold other jobs at the same time. One Democratic legislator who has often collaborated with Mr. Kean, State Senator John H. Adler, said he has seen only one other politician at a similarly early stage of his career who rivaled Mr. Kean in ambition and political calculation, ''voting as a conservative when that's necessary, and voting as a moderate/liberal when that's necessary'': former Governor James E. McGreevey.
 Steven Goldstein, executive director of Garden State Equality, New Jersey's leading gay rights group, described his dealings with Mr. Kean as ''the most disappointing I've ever had'' over two decades in politics. 
 Mr. Goldstein, a Democrat who considers Republicans like Mr. Kean's father and former Gov. Christie Whitman to be gay-rights champions, said that when New Jersey was weighing legislation to provide domestic partners some legal benefits in late 2003, the newly appointed State Senator Kean was empathetic and supportive. But the night before a vote in January 2004, Mr. Kean called after midnight and, ''I swear on a stack of Bibles,'' Mr. Goldstein recalled, said he could not vote for the bill because of a likely backlash from conservatives in a future primary. 
 ''Dealing with Tom Kean Jr. is like playing chess with Casper the Friendly Ghost,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''He believes he can affable his way out of anything -- and I'm using affable as a verb -- and he does everything in his power not to let you see who he really is.''
 Mr. Kean explained, in an interview at his Mountainside campaign headquarters, that he voted against the bill because he was troubled by its specifics and ''nobody would tell anybody what the cost was.'' Earlier this year, he voted to expand benefits for domestic partners. 
 ''I think the responsibility of someone in elected office is to try pull people together, is to try to find common grounds,'' he said. ''That's how I conduct my life.''

An Appointment to Trenton
 Other than his stinging loss in 2000, the current battle for the United States Senate is Mr. Kean's first competitive election.
 In 2001, Republican leaders appointed him to fill the seat of an assemblyman who was dying of cancer and represent a staunchly Republican swath of northern New Jersey. 
 ''Everyone wanted to see Tom get this seat as a sort of consolation for losing the primary,'' recalled William J. Palatucci, a former finance chairman of the state party. ''because he was such a hard worker, and because of who he was, and because he was the future of the party.''
 Though he was more familiar with federal issues (having worked for a few years in Washington for Representative Bob Franks and at the Environmental Protection Agency) and international topics (having studied Central Asia in graduate school at Tufts), Mr. Kean dived into state issues and was able, despite Democratic control of the Assembly, to push through legislation on the environment and campaign finance, including one measure that strengthened a state ethics commission.
 An avid camper, hiker and hunter while growing up on the family estate in Livingston and working as a counselor at summer camps, Mr. Kean sponsored what became known as ''Clean Car'' legislation in New Jersey, which established rigorous new vehicle emission standards expected to reduce pollution from cars by 20 percent over 10 years. 
 Mr. Kean traces his zest for campaign finance reform, in part, to that first Congressional race in 2000, when he was attacked by one of the earliest so-called 527 groups, which can spend virtually unlimited sums as long as they do not coordinate with parties or candidates. He sued the Federal Election Commission after the race. He also said he traced his zest for clean government and campaign finance reform to what he saw during that three-month canoe trip along the Danube through Eastern Europe in 1990.
 ''I came away more fundamentally believing that there needs to be merit-based decision-making that creates economic opportunity,'' he explained, ''because one of the things I saw was you didn't really have competition for contracts.''
 The political stars aligned again for Mr. Kean in January 2003, when he was tapped by Republican leaders to fill the seat of a retiring state senator. Before leaving the Assembly, he managed to defy the Democratic Speaker, Albio Sires, and advance a bill that would have limited campaign contributions from state contractors. 
 But on Mr. Kean's last day, Mr. Sires blocked the bill and essentially kicked him out of the chamber. ''I have a letter of resignation here,'' Mr. Sires said, waving a piece of paper in the air as Republicans booed, according to a newspaper account at the time. ''You're no longer a member of this body.''
 The legislation died, but the incident elevated Mr. Kean's profile, feeding speculation that he was considering a run for governor in 2005. He still frequently cites it as an example of his independence.

Questions on Stances
 Yet on many issues, particularly polarizing social ones, Mr. Kean has acted much more tentatively.
 Bryan Miller, executive director of Ceasefire New Jersey, said that he asked Mr. Kean -- who received an F from the National Rifle Association in 2003 -- twice to co-sponsor a bill designed to protect children by limiting the use of handguns to authorized adults because ''his old man was always great on the issue.''
 ''His answer was, 'Well, I got to talk to my leadership,' then he fell away and wouldn't do it,'' Mr. Miller recalled. ''He showed a complete lack of leadership on it. I was frankly shocked.''
 Asked about this, Mr. Kean wondered if there was that much difference between supporting a bill and being its co-sponsor. He added, his voice rising in exasperation, that he was one of eight Republicans ''to vote for the darn bill.''
 Another issue on which Mr. Kean has compiled an inconsistent record is stem-cell research. He has stated flatly that he supports embryonic research, and has criticized Mr. Bush's policies limiting federal financing on it. Yet he has voted against bills that would borrow money to build facilities for such research, saying that voters should first approve such projects.
 He also voted against, then for, different versions of a bill that established the state's Civil Rights Act in 2004, which permits people to sue in state court when they believe their civil rights have been violated. 
 ''It's like John Kerry: I voted for the $87 billion, then I voted against it,'' said the Rev. Reginald T. Jackson, executive director of the Black Ministers Council of New Jersey, referring to the explanation Mr. Kerry gave for votes on financing the Iraq war that became one of the most potent weapons against him in the 2004 presidential race.
 Mr. Jackson, who in the past supported moderate Republicans, including Governors Kean and Whitman, was among several African-American clergymen who said the younger Mr. Kean was vague and evasive in endorsement interviews earlier this year. ''It's almost like he doesn't want to offend anyone,'' Mr. Jackson said.
 For his part, Mr. Kean said it was not bad, sometimes, to react guardedly, especially on complex issues. And two of New Jersey's leading Republicans, Douglas R. Forrester and Leonard Lance, the Senate minority leader, both praised Mr. Kean's listening skills.
 ''Most people in the political arena are there because they like to offer their own opinions,'' said Mr. Forrester, who lost last year's race for governor. ''Tom is a much better listener than any other politician of which I can think.''

Getting Started
 At Dartmouth College, Mr. Kean majored in history, rowed junior varsity heavyweight crew, and was treasurer and vice president of the Psi Upsilon fraternity, graduating in 1990. ''Young Men, Old Money,'' screamed the headline on Playboy's profile of the Dartmouth chapter the spring before Mr. Kean arrived on campus. ''They know that the only thing better than the fast track is the inside track.''
 After college, Mr. Kean's first job was at the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington, where he met his wife, Rhonda Lee Norton, an Ohio native. They live with their two daughters, ages 7 and 3, in a modest colonial style house in Westfield, but plan to move soon into a $1.3 million Tudor, now being renovated, a few blocks away.
 While working in Washington, Mr. Kean was a volunteer firefighter and emergency medical technician in Hyattsville, Md., and some who served with him suggested that he run for office there. But Anthony P. Mangelli, a friend who is now a New Jersey state trooper, said Mr. Kean did not see a political future there because ''it's a very Democratic area'' and ''he had a love for New Jersey.''
 Sure enough, after a few years at Tufts, where he received a master's degree and began work on a Ph.D, Mr. Kean moved to Westfield when his former boss, Mr. Franks, announced his bid for the United States Senate, leaving an open seat. Despite his deep family roots in the state, anonymous mailers from a 527 group attacked Mr. Kean as a liberal carpetbagger from Massachusetts and juxtaposed his picture with Boston figures like Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Larry Bird.
 ''Never worked in New Jersey,'' says one mailer from that campaign. ''Never paid New Jersey property taxes. Tom Kean Jr. may be a nice young man -- and you may have liked his dad a lot -- but he needs more experience dealing with local issues and concerns.''
 Mr. Kean says that his loss was, in retrospect, ''a good thing'' because it gave him the opportunity to serve in Trenton. In this year's race, he was so concerned about a primary challenge from a conservative, according to numerous Republicans, that he swerved to the right on some issues and hired top personnel who had worked for Bret D. Schundler, the Republican nominee for governor in 2001. 
 Should he win this year, Mr. Kean said, he would push to enact the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, which his father chaired. He would try to make Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent. And he said he would support efforts to increase the federal minimum wage, though he voted against a similar measure in New Jersey.
 He says that he admires Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, as well as Senator John McCain of Arizona. But when asked which Republicans he least admired, or did not look forward to working with in the Senate, he demurred.
 ''I'm an optimist,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas H. Kean Jr., a Republican legislator in a tough Senate race. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)(pg. A1)
Thomas H. Kean Jr., next to his father in 1981. His family has a long tradition in New Jersey politics.
 Mr. Kean, left, in the State Senate in 2004, has not run in a competitive election since 2000 but is now challenging an incumbent senator. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BIOETHICS (71%); BOATING & RAFTING (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%) Elections; Election Issues; Finances; Ethics; Law and Legislation; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US); House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (58%) David W Chen; Thomas H Jr (Sen) Kean; Thomas H Kean

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



556 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; SAO PAULO JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: At Long Last, a Neglected Language Is Put on a Pedestal 

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil 

 BODY:
More people speak Portuguese as their native language than French, German, Italian or Japanese. So it can rankle the 230 million Portuguese speakers that the rest of the world often views their mother tongue as a minor language and that their novelists, poets and songwriters tend to be overlooked.
 An effort is being made here in the largest city in the world's largest Portuguese-speaking country to remedy that situation. The Museum of the Portuguese Language, with multimedia displays and interactive technology, recently opened here, dedicated to the proposition that Portuguese speakers and their language can benefit from a bit of self-affirmation and self-advertisement. 
 ''We hope this museum is the first step to showing ourselves, our culture and its importance to the world,'' said Antonio Carlos Sartini, the museum director. ''A strategy to promote the Portuguese language has always been lacking, but from now on, maybe things can take another path.''
 The museum, which opened in March, has already become the most widely visited in Brazil, drawing schoolchildren and scholars as well as tourists from Brazil and Portuguese-speaking countries in Africa. 
 In the interests of linguistic harmony and unity, it sidesteps a basic issue: whether dominion over the language ultimately rests with the country where it was born or this rambunctious, overgrown former colony where it is most widely spoken.
 George Bernard Shaw once described the United States and Great Britain as ''two countries divided by a common language.'' Much the same could be said about Brazil, with its 185 million people, and Portugal, with barely 11 million.
 The issue is not just the contrast between the mellifluous, musical accent of Brazil -- ''Portuguese with sugar,'' in the words of the 19th-century realist Eca de Queiroz -- and the clipped, almost guttural sound in Portugal. There are also marked differences in usage that have traditionally led to misunderstandings and provided fodder for jokes.
 In Portugal, for example, a word for a line (the waiting kind) is to Brazilians a derogatory slang term for a homosexual. A Portuguese word for a man's suit of clothes means a fact or piece of information in Brazil.
 Some purists in Portugal object to the slangy, colorfully casual version of the language that is spoken here and increasingly spread abroad through Brazilian telenovelas, or soap operas. They regard such informality as unworthy of the language of Camoes, the 16th-century poet whose seafaring epic ''Os Lusiadas'' is often compared to the masterpieces of Homer and Dante.
 ''That's certainly not my reading,'' Maria Isabel Pires de Lima, Portugal's culture minister, said, though, when she visited the museum in August with Jose Socrates Carvalho Pinto de Sousa, her country's prime minister. ''Language is a living instrument, always moving, evolving and changing, so I don't see this phenomenon as pejorative. On the contrary, telenovelas are an important tool in creating more awareness of the Portuguese language and culture.''
 In 1996, Brazil and Portugal joined with five African nations -- Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique and Sao Tome and Principe -- to found the Community of Portuguese-Language Countries. Portuguese was recently designated an official language of the Organization of African Unity as a result of the community's efforts. Leaders think that more can be done and hope that Brazil can lead the way.
 ''One of our objectives is to disseminate Portuguese so that it has greater visibility in international organizations,'' Jose Tadeu Soares, deputy director general of the group, said in a telephone interview from its headquarters in Lisbon. ''But aside from Brazil and Portugal, the other countries have only been independent for 25 or 30 years and don't have the resources to project themselves on the world stage the way Brazil can.''
 Though the group recently granted observer status to China, where the language still has official standing in Macao, Portuguese is fading there and in places like Goa, Damao and Diu in India, three other former colonial outposts. But when East Timor obtained its independence from Indonesia in 2002 and joined the community, that inspired an outpouring of sympathy and support from Portuguese-speaking countries.
 ''For the Timorese, Portuguese is a way of asserting their identity vis-a-vis Indonesia, and, for that matter, even Australia,'' Luiz Fernando Valente, director of the Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies at Brown University, said in a telephone interview from Providence, R.I.
 But, he added, the aspiration of some Portuguese-speakers to see their language gain official status at the United Nations is probably beyond reach. ''Portuguese is a global language, spoken on every continent,'' he said, ''but it is not an international language, used in diplomacy and business the way that French is, and I don't know if that problem is solvable.''
 Mr. Sartini, the museum director, said the museum planned to send roving exhibitions abroad, to disseminate Portuguese language and culture. Ideally, he said, such displays would visit not only Portuguese-speaking countries but also those, like the United States, with Portuguese-speaking minorities.
 The largest and oldest United States enclave is around Providence, R.I., and Fall River and New Bedford, in southeastern Massachusetts. There are others, in the Central Valley of California, around Fresno, for example, as well as in southern Florida and Newark.
 At a literary festival near here in August, though, the Anglo-Pakistani writer Tariq Ali was quoted in the local press as saying that only three languages are assured of surviving to the end of this century: English, Chinese and Spanish. Even Jose Saramago, the Portuguese novelist and Nobel laureate who lives mostly in Spain, has fretted publicly over the possibility of Portuguese being overwhelmed by English and Spanish.
 Spanish-speakers have sometimes jokingly dismissed Portuguese as simply ''Spanish, badly spoken.'' But because of Brazil's huge size and dynamic economy, cities like Buenos Aires and Santiago, in neighboring countries, are now awash in fliers and billboards offering Portuguese language courses.
 ''For 850 years, our neighbors next door have been saying that there is no future for Portuguese,'' said Mr. Soares, of the community, referring to Spain. ''But here we are, still. The dynamic for the language may come from Brazil, but there is no doubt in my mind that Portuguese as a language will remain viable.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Visitors study a timeline display. The museum, which opened in Sao Paulo in March, has quickly become the most visited one in Brazil.
 A boy reads a page by the Brazilian writer Joao Guimaraes Rosa at the Museum of the Portuguese Language. (Photographs by Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LINGUISTICS (78%); POETRY (77%); WRITERS (77%); SONG WRITING (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); CHILDREN (52%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (50%) Portuguese Language

ORGANIZATION: Museum of the Portuguese Language (Sao Paulo)

PERSON: JOSE SOCRATES (58%) Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (87%) BRAZIL (99%); PORTUGAL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



557 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: 13 Police Recruits Among 18 Iraqis Killed in Violence 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Khalid al-Ansary and other Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Richard A. Oppel Jr. from Baquba.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
A deadly ambush of police recruits north of Baghdad on Sunday and several bombings aimed at shoppers in the city put a violent stamp on preparations for the celebration of the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. 
 The latest violence left at least 18 Iraqis dead overall, officials said, adding to what had already been one of the bloodiest stretches here since the American-led invasion in 2003.
 In addition, about 50 bodies were collected Sunday around Baghdad, the capital, a figure considered high weeks ago but now routine. An Interior Ministry official said many of the victims had apparently been shot at close range and bore signs of torture. 
 The American military reported five more combat deaths as well. A marine in Anbar Province and a soldier in Salahuddin Province died from ''enemy action'' on Saturday, the military said. Another soldier in Baghdad was killed Sunday by a roadside bomb, and two others were killed Sunday by small-arms fire in the capital when their patrol came under attack, the military said.
 The deaths brought the month's total of lost American lives in Iraq to at least 83.
 With more than a week remaining, October's death toll was already the highest for American troops since November 2005, according to Iraq Coalition Casualty Count, an independent Web site that keeps track of such figures.
 The ambush of the police recruits, by gunmen with assault rifles and rocket-propelled grenade launchers, occurred near the town of Muradiya, north of Baghdad, and left 13 recruits dead, an Interior Ministry official said. 
 It began with a roadside bomb that halted a police convoy, the official said. It bore the signs of the kind of sectarian violence that has plagued Iraq, particularly since the bombing of a sacred Shiite shrine in Samarra in February. 
 The recruits may have been members of the Mahdi Army, the biggest of the Shiite militias in the country, the Interior Ministry official said, but an American military official in nearby Baquba could not confirm that. Several of the recruits were missing and were believed to have been kidnapped. 
 Attacks have spiked in Baghdad since the beginning of Ramadan, the Muslim period of fasting and repentance that will come to an end this week with the three-day holiday of Id al-Fitr, when Muslims traditionally gather with their families to celebrate the end of the fasting period.
 The violence in Baghdad during Ramadan has persisted despite the presence of thousands of additional American troops as part of a new security plan for the city that military officials had hoped would help stop the bloodshed. An American military spokesman in Baghdad conceded last week that the plan had faltered and that commanders were working to ''refocus'' their efforts. 
 On Sunday, shopping areas in Baghdad were crowded as residents stopped by bakeries to purchase sweets and picked through racks to buy new clothes for the coming holiday. 
 During Ramadan, hundreds of people were killed in sectarian attacks in Baghdad, and clashes broke out last week between rival Shiite militias in the southern city of Amara, threatening to extend the spiraling violence to the Shiite south. 
 The mayhem on Sunday included a bomb that exploded under an unattended car in the Shorja market, an area filled with wholesale stores that is Baghdad's largest and oldest shopping bazaar. At least two people were killed and five wounded from the explosion at about 11:30 a.m., an Interior Ministry official said.
 About the same time, the official said, a bomb exploded and wounded four people near the al-Farasha bakery in eastern Baghdad, where shoppers were lined up to buy holiday sweets.
 Several hours later, a suicide bomber wearing an explosive belt detonated it on Palestine Street, a busy commercial area in the eastern part of the city, killing himself and three others and wounding 20, the official said.
 The bombings in Baghdad on Sunday were similar to an attack the day before in Mahmudiya, a volatile predominantly Sunni town 15 miles south of the city, when bombs left on five motorcycles exploded as shoppers packed the main market, killing at least 16 people and wounding 60. 
 The Iraqi Islamic Party, the country's largest Sunni party, issued a strongly worded statement on Sunday that blamed Shiite militias for the attack in Mahmudiya. The statement said that the militias had killed 1,000 residents in the town since January and that American and Iraqi forces had been allowing the attacks.
 The party urged that the leadership of the Iraqi Army brigade in the area be replaced.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A boy near the wreckage of a car that was used in a bombing on Sunday in Baghdad. Fourteen people were wounded in the attack, the police said. (Photo by Thaier al-Sudani/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); RAMADAN (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); ARMIES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); RELIGION (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); RETAILERS (73%); FIREARMS (50%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (99%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



558 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Set For This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 5.08 percent and the rate on the six-month issue at 5.13 percent and the rate on the four-week issue was 4.99 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT
TUESDAY
 Minnesota, $400 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Pittsburgh School District, $54 million of general obligation bonds. 
 Competitive.
 Rhode Island, $98.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
WEDNESDAY
 Suffolk County, N.Y., $94.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Alabama State Port Authority, $214.9 million of debt securities. Goldman, Sachs.
 Baltimore County, Md., Catholic Initiatives, $115 million of debt securities. UBS Securities.
 City of Cape Coral, Fla., $185 million of water and sewer revenue bonds. Banc of America Securities.
 Colorado Health Facilities Authority Christian Living Communities, $60.6 million of debt securities. Ziegler Capital Markets Group.
 Colorado Health Facility Authority, Catholic Health Initiatives, $285 million of debt securities.
 Hamilton County Metropolitan Sewer, Ohio, $83.3 million of debt securities. Seasongood & Mayer.
 Houston Community College District, Tex., $73.1 million of junior lien student fee revenue and refunding bonds. Estrada Hinojosa.
 Maryland Health and Higher Education, $354.2 million of debt securities for Western Maryland. Banc of America Securities.
 Michigan State Hospital Finance Authority, $135 million of debt securities. Goldman, Sachs.
 Michigan State Hospital Authority, $81 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
 M.T.A., New York, $410 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $70 million of debt securities for Rowan University. Goldman, Sachs.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority School Facilities, $100 million of construction bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
 New Mexico Mortgage Finance, $60 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 New York State Dormitory, $725 million of personal income tax. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, $262.6 million of debt securities. J. P. Morgan Securities.
 South Florida Water Management District, $550 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 State of Connecticut, $450 million of debt securities. Lehman Brothers.
 State Public Works Board of the State of California, $300.6 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 State of Ohio, $120 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, $106 million of debt securities. UBS Securities.
 The Health, Educational and Housing Facilities Board of the County of Sullivan, Tenn., of $200 million of debt securities for Wellmont Health System. Ziegler Capital Markets.
 Union County, N.C., $77.1 million of certificates of participation. Wachovia Bank.
 Washington Health Care, $97 million of debt securities for Group Health Co-Op, Washington. Citigroup Global Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (74%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); STUDENT EXPENSES (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); HOSPITALS (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%); WATER QUALITY (50%); INCOME TAX (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ZIEGLER CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP (55%); CATHOLIC HEALTH INITIATIVES (55%); SEASONGOOD & MAYER (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); WELLS FARGO & CO (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE OF PUGET SOUND (50%); WELLMONT HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (50%); GROUP HEALTH COOP (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); WFC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC8051 SKILLED NURSING CARE FACILITIES (55%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (50%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (50%); NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (50%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (50%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



559 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; LINK BY LINK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: The Internet Black Hole That Is North Korea

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
THE tragically backward, sometimes absurdist hallmarks of North Korea and its leader, Kim Jong-il, are well known. There is Mr. Kim's Elton John eyeglasses and strangely whipped, cotton-candy hairdo. And there is the North Korean ''No! Yeeesssss No! O.K. Fear the tiger!'' school of diplomacy.
 A newer, more dangerous sort of North Korean eccentricity registered around 4.0 on the Richter scale earlier this month -- a nuclear weapon test that has had the world's major powers scrambling, right up through last week, to develop a policy script that would account for Mr. Kim's new toy. 
But whatever the threat -- and however lush the celebrations broadcast on state-controlled television from the streets of Pyongyang in the days afterward -- the stark realities of life in North Korea were perhaps most evident in a simple satellite image over the shoulder of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld during an Oct. 11 briefing. The image showed the two Koreas -- North and South -- photographed at night. 
 The South was illuminated from coast to coast, suggesting that not just lights, but that other, arguably more bedrock utility of the modern age -- information -- was pulsating through the population. 
 The North was black. 
 This is an impoverished country where televisions and radios are hard-wired to receive only government-controlled frequencies. Cellphones were banned outright in 2004. In May, the Committee to Protect Journalists in New York ranked North Korea No. 1 -- over also-rans like Burma, Syria and Uzbekistan -- on its list of the ''10 Most Censored Countries.'' 
 That would seem to leave the question of Internet access in North Korea moot. 
 At a time when much of the world takes for granted a fat and growing network of digitized human knowledge, art, history, thought and debate, it is easy to forget just how much is being denied the people who live under the veil of darkness revealed in that satellite photograph. 
 While other restrictive regimes have sought to find ways to limit the Internet -- through filters and blocks and threats -- North Korea has chosen to stay wholly off the grid. 
 Julien Pain, head of the Internet desk at Reporters Without Borders, a Paris-based group which tracks censorship around the world, put it more bluntly. ''It is by far the worst Internet black hole,'' he said. 
 That is not to say that North Korean officials are not aware of the Internet. 
 As far back as 2000, at the conclusion of a visit to Pyongyang, Madeleine K. Albright, then secretary of state, bid Mr. Kim to ''pick up the telephone any time,'' to which the North Korean leader replied, ''Please give me your e-mail address.'' That signaled to everyone that at least he, if not the average North Korean, was cybersavvy. (It is unclear if Ms. Albright obliged.) 
 These days, the designated North Korean domain suffix, ''.kp'' remains dormant, but several ''official'' North Korean sites can be found delivering sweet nothings about the country and its leader to the global conversation (an example: www.kcckp.net/en/) -- although these are typically hosted on servers in China or Japan. 
 Mr. Kim, embracing the concept of ''distance learning,'' has established the Kim Il-sung Open University Web site, www.ournation-school.com -- aimed at educating the world on North Korea's philosophy of ''juche'' or self-reliance. And the official North Korean news agency, at www.kcna.co.jp, provides tea leaves that are required reading for anyone following the great Quixote in the current nuclear crisis. 
 But to the extent that students and researchers at universities and a few other lucky souls have access to computers, these are linked only to each other -- that is, to a nationwide, closely-monitored Intranet -- according to the OpenNet Initiative, a human rights project linking researchers from the University of Toronto, Harvard Law School and Cambridge and Oxford Universities in Britain. 
 A handful of elites have access to the wider Web -- via a pipeline through China -- but this is almost certainly filtered, monitored and logged. 
 Some small ''information technology stores'' -- crude cybercafes -- have also cropped up. But these, too, connect only to the country's closed network. According to The Daily NK, a pro-democracy news site based in South Korea, computer classes at one such store cost more than six months wages for the average North Korean (snipurl.com/DailyNK). The store, located in Chungjin, North Korea, has its own generator to keep the computers running if the power is cut, The Daily NK site said. 
 ''It's one thing for authoritarian regimes like China to try to blend the economic catalyst of access to the Internet with controls designed to sand off the rough edges, forcing citizens to make a little extra effort to see or create sensitive content,'' said Jonathan Zittrain, a professor of Internet governance and regulation at Oxford. 
 The problem is much more vexing for North Korea, Professor Zittrain said, because its ''comprehensive official fantasy worldview'' must remain inviolate. ''In such a situation, any information leakage from the outside world could be devastating,'' he said, ''and Internet access for the citizenry would have to be so controlled as to be useless. It couldn't even resemble the Internet as we know it.'' 
 But how long can North Korea's leadership keep the country in the dark? 
 Writing in The International Herald Tribune last year, Rebecca MacKinnon, a research fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard, suggested that North Korea's ban on cellphones was being breached on the black market along China's border. And as more and more cellphones there become Web-enabled, she suggested, that might mean that a growing number of North Koreans, in addition to talking to family in the South, would be quietly raising digital periscopes from the depths. 
 Of course, there are no polls indicating whether the average North Korean would prefer nuclear arms or Internet access (or food, or reliable power), but given Mr. Kim's interest in weapons, it is a safe bet it would not matter. 
 ''No doubt it's harder to make nuclear warheads than to set up an Internet network,'' Mr. Pain said. ''It's all a question of priority.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Department of Defense satellite image of the Korean Peninsula showing wide illuminated areas in South Korea and the relative darkness of the North. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (75%); WRITERS (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); RANKINGS (64%); HISTORY (50%) Computers and the Internet; Censorship; Computer Software; Politics and Government; International Trade and World Market; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (90%); ELTON JOHN (72%) Tom Jr Zeller

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (51%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



560 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: A Secret Divide on Republican Turf

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WINDSOR, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In Broome County, a largely rural patch of upstate New York, registered Republicans outnumber Democrats, particularly in the rolling hills around Binghamton. This is a part of the state that is closer to Scranton, Pa., than to Manhattan, culturally as well as geographically, where people bowl, decorate their mailboxes to look like tractors and mention with pride that their county was once home to Randall Terry, the anti-abortion activist.
 Yet here, in a place where many think Republican, residents talk of voting for Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, for governor.
Kevin Cole, 43, cannot remember the last time he voted for a Democrat. But he said he was leaning toward voting for Mr. Spitzer over former Assemblyman John Faso, Mr. Spitzer's Republican rival. Mr. Cole, a Republican who lives in Chenango and helps run a family-owned trucking company, said what appealed to him about Mr. Spitzer was his prosecutions as attorney general of Wall Street and insurance industry executives. 
 ''He's done quite well with buttoning down on crime and not being afraid to go after people who are really ripping off the general public,'' Mr. Cole said. ''It's very hard for me to go against the grain, but at this point in time I give Spitzer high marks. He's not afraid to stick his neck out.''
 About 20 miles away, in Windsor, Helen Osborne, 88, lives on Main Street, a few doors down from McBride's Restaurant and Pub, where the owner, Lawrence McBride, keeps an anti-Kerry sign and a Rush Limbaugh videotape behind the bar. Though she said she usually votes Republican, Mrs. Osborne is thinking about supporting Mr. Spitzer.
 ''I just like the way he acts,'' said Mrs. Osborne, the town historian. ''I haven't seen the other guy. I don't even know what he looks like.''
 In the final weeks before the Nov. 7 election, Mrs. Osborne and Mr. Cole illustrate the degree to which Mr. Spitzer has made inroads among Republican voters. In interviews with dozens of Republicans in Broome County, a large number said they would vote for Mr. Spitzer or were considering it. These Republicans and others around the state have become not so much swing voters in a tight race, but silent supporters joining what polls suggest is a groundswell of Republican support for the attorney general's bid to become governor.
 Some believe Mr. Spitzer will tackle fraud and waste in Albany with the same zeal that he pursued white-collar crime on Wall Street. Some have been unimpressed with Mr. Faso or know little about his message or ideas. Others say they are drawn to Mr. Spitzer out of frustration with their party and the three terms of Republican leadership under Gov. George E. Pataki. A few even said they were using their vote for Mr. Spitzer to send a message to the Bush administration about their unease over the war in Iraq.
 ''I'd just like to see this thing end one way or the other,'' said James M. Gentilini, 60, of the war. Mr. Gentilini, a retired postmaster and cable company worker who lives in Chenango, has voted for Republicans for three decades, but he said his vote this year was going to Mr. Spitzer because of his opposition to the war and his record as attorney general.
 Many Republican voters backing Mr. Spitzer do not show their support for him publicly -- few lawn signs are displayed for either candidate around the county -- but they talk privately about voting for him. Some did not want their names used because they did not want their decision to cross party lines to be widely known. ''It's the man more than the party that influences me,'' said one Republican, a retired Johnson City police officer planning to vote for Mr. Spitzer who did not want his name published.
 Mr. Spitzer appeals to Republicans for a number of reasons. As the state's top law enforcement officer, he made a name for himself as a tough prosecutor in a series of high-profile cases. But two factors drawing Republicans to Mr. Spitzer have less to do with the candidate himself than with the way the race for governor has played out.
 Mr. Faso, who has trailed Mr. Spitzer in opinion polls and fund-raising, has not succeeded in getting his name or vision out to rank-and-file voters in this part of upstate New York. Some Republicans in Broome County could not even name the Republican candidate, while they have seen the barrage of ads by the Spitzer campaign. Mr. Spitzer also appears to many Republicans here to be a moderate Democrat, especially when compared with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, whom they view as too liberal. To conservatives in this county, Mr. Spitzer is no Mrs. Clinton.
 Douglas Shoemaker, 72, a Republican who repairs furnaces in Kirkwood, said he might vote for Mr. Spitzer (''He really nailed them,'' he said of Mr. Spitzer's white-collar crime prosecutions), but never for Mrs. Clinton (''I don't care for her to be president,'' he said). Maurice Howe, a 76-year-old Republican who lives in Endwell, said Mr. Spitzer appeared to be a man of action and had earned his vote, but he described Mrs. Clinton as an opportunist who has done little for upstate residents. ''She's interested in Hillary, not the people,'' he said.
 Mr. Spitzer by no means has a lock on the county's Republican vote. Mr. Faso and his anti-tax message have significant support among many conservatives, including local elected officials and business owners.
 Tom Meade, the chief executive of the Sunstream Corporation, an environmental contractor in Binghamton, the majority-Democratic county seat, said he was voting for Mr. Faso because he would bring fiscal responsibility to Albany. He said Mr. Spitzer may have gone after fraud on Wall Street, but he has ignored fraud in state government. ''He's done nothing in the public sector,'' said Mr. Meade, who is not registered with any party. ''Do we have corruption in the public sector? It's ungodly.''
 Some Republicans have given Mr. Spitzer tenuous support. Several did not know his positions on some of the issues that typically divide liberals and conservatives, like his support of abortion rights and gay marriage, but they nevertheless said they were still considering voting for him. Throughout the campaign, Mr. Faso has said he would cut taxes and his opponent would raise them, but that argument appears to have not swayed many Republicans here. They believe tax increases are inevitable in any administration.
 ''I believe taxes are going to go up no matter who's in there,'' said Mr. Gentilini. ''They can't say they're not going to raise taxes.''
 Indeed, in Broome County, people's views on the election are colored by a kind of cynicism, apathy and angst. This is a place known not so much for what it is, but what it used to be.
 From 1990 to 2005, the county's population dropped to 196,947 from 212,160. It lost the manufacturing jobs that had earned one of its villages, Endicott, known as the birthplace of I.B.M., the moniker ''Home of the Square Deal.'' These days, residents talk of neighbors they have known who moved out because of the lack of jobs and high taxes. Mr. Meade of the Sunstream Corporation is considering moving his 35-employee company across the border to Pennsylvania, a move he says would save him nearly $100,000 a year in insurance costs and property taxes.
 In Windsor, at Bob's Barber Shop on Main Street, there are two things customers mention most frequently: taxes and the economy. One recent morning, a front-page story in the local newspaper, The Press & Sun-Bulletin, reported that Broome County's property taxes as a percentage of home value ranked 18th-highest in the nation, according to a study by the Tax Foundation, a Washington tax research group.
 The news was a hot topic in Windsor, and was no surprise to Bob Jenson, the owner of the barbershop, who estimated that he pays $4,500 a year in local taxes.
 Mr. Jenson, 54, is an old-fashioned sort of guy who runs an old-fashioned sort of place. He is a grandfather and a hunter, the kind of barber who wears blue jeans, is licensed to carry a concealed weapon and grows so close to the men whose hair he trims for $10 that, when they die, he attends their funerals. Two businesses next door closed recently, and on some afternoons Main Street, tucked into the hills of Windsor on the banks of the Susquehanna River, seems a drowsy strip.
 Like thousands of others in the county, Mr. Jenson is registered to vote but does not identify with any party. Several of his customers said they were so fed up with politics that they no longer vote, or never did. One man, when asked the last time he voted, replied simply, ''Ike.''
 Mr. Jenson makes it a point to vote. He often votes for Republicans -- he voted for Mr. Pataki in 2002 -- but he is undecided about whom to vote for next month. Neither candidate appeals to him, a sentiment echoed by other conservatives in Broome County. ''It appears right now, I go to the polls to vote and I'm going to place my vote for the lesser of the two evils,'' he said, ''and that's a heck of a way to go to a poll.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Jenson, right, with a customer at his barbershop in Windsor, N.Y., often votes Republican but was undecided about John Faso and Eliot Spitzer. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Lawrence McBride, at his restaurant and bar in Windsor, N.Y., says he will vote for a fellow Republican, John Faso, over the attorney general. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); INSURANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RESTAURANTS (64%); ABORTION (56%); TRUCKING (53%) Public Opinion

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (55%) Manny Fernandez; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; John J Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



561 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; MILITARY ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: To Stand or Fall in Baghdad 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
After three years of trying to thwart a potent insurgency and tamp down the deadly violence in Iraq, the American military is playing its last hand: the Baghdad security plan.
 The plan will be tweaked, adjusted and modified in the weeks ahead, as American commanders try to reverse the dismaying increase in murders, drive-by shootings and bombings.
But military commanders here see no plausible alternative to their bedrock strategy to clear violence-ridden neighborhoods of militias, insurgents and arms caches, hold them with Iraqi and American security forces, and then try to win over the population with reconstruction projects, underwritten mainly by the Iraqi government. There is no fall-back plan that the generals are holding in their hip pocket. This is it.
 The Iraqi capital, as the generals like to say, is the center of gravity for the larger American mission in Iraq. Their assessment is that if Baghdad is overwhelmed by sectarian strife, the cause of fostering a more stable Iraq will be lost. Conversely, if Baghdad can be improved, the effects will eventually be felt elsewhere in Iraq. In invading Iraq, American forces started from outside the country and fought their way in. The current strategy is essentially to work from the inside out. 
 ''As Baghdad goes, so goes Iraq,'' observed Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, who commands American forces throughout Iraq.
 Many ideas -- new and not so new -- are being discussed in Washington, like a sectarian division of Iraq (which the current government and many Iraqis oppose); and starting talks with Iraq's neighbor, Iran (which the Iraqi government is already doing, but the United States is not). Some of these ideas look appealing simply because they have not been put to the test.
 However the broader strategy may be amended, nothing can work if Baghdad becomes a war-torn Beirut. Baghdad security may not be a sufficient condition for a more stable Iraq, but it is a necessary condition for any alternative plan that does not simply abandon the Iraqis to their fate. 
 It is hard to see how any Iraq plan can work if the capital's citizens cannot be protected.
 The current operation is called Together Forward II, the second phase of an effort begun in July to reduce violence in Baghdad. The name reflects the core assumption that the Iraqi government is to be an equal partner in regaining control of its capital. Necessarily, the security plan requires an integrated political and military approach, since its goal is not to vanquish an enemy on a foreign battlefield but to bring order to a militia-and-insurgent-plagued city.
 But the early returns have raised searching questions as to whether the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki is truly prepared to tackle the mission.
 ''It is a decisive period,'' said Maj. Gen. J. D. Thurman, the commander of the Fourth Infantry Division and the senior commander of the American forces in Baghdad. 
 ''They either seize the opportunity or they don't,'' he said. ''If they don't, then our government is going to have to readjust what we are going to do, and that is not my call.''
 Since it would take several months to secure and begin reconstruction in the dozen or so strife-ridden neighborhoods that are the focus of the plan, American commanders said the viability of the strategy could not be properly assessed before the year's end. So far, however, the plan has been short on resources as well as results. The Iraqi Defense Ministry has supplied only two of the six Iraqi Army battalions that General Thurman has requested.
 That is not just a question of numbers. Some American military officers say they believe the Iraqi Army may be more effective than the Iraq police, and more trusted by local citizens. Yet several Iraqi battalions have deserted rather than follow orders to go to Baghdad, according to American military officials. In the case of these units, summoning them to the Iraqi capital was tantamount to demobilizing them.
 Some of the Iraqi police forces the Americans must work with have been infiltrated by militias. One Iraqi National Police unit has already been withdrawn from the streets and a training program has been instituted to improve the others. The Americans are carefully monitoring a number of police stations that they say have made common cause with some of the militias and intend to report them to the Iraqi government.
 The original concept behind the plan was that American forces were to hold cleared areas for 60 to 90 days, during which the process of economic reconstruction would begin. Then American forces would turn the sectors over to Iraqi police and army units, freeing up American troops to tackle security challenges elsewhere in the city. Without sufficient Iraqi forces, however, this process has been hampered and it has been more difficult to prevent militias and insurgents from sneaking back into cleared areas.
 ''What takes the combat power is the holding piece,'' said General Thurman. ''We can do the clearing. But once you clear if you don't leave somebody in there and build civil capacity in there then it is the old mud-hole approach. You know the water runs out of the mud hole when you drive through the mud hole and then it runs back in it.''
 Delays in Iraqi government programs to improve electrical, sewage, water and health facilities have also hampered the effort. It had been expected that such Iraqi programs would begin before Ramadan, the monthlong holiday that is about to end. But the programs are now projected to start in November. In the absence of large-scale Iraqi programs, the Americans have sponsored some smaller efforts to improve sanitation and repair services, programs that have generated jobs and helped lower the unemployment rate in the city.
 While the sectarian violence would be far worse if not for the American efforts, the number of murders in the Baghdad area has not decreased as hoped. Fifty-two bodies were found in General Thurman's sector, which includes Baghdad and large swaths of territory north and south of the city, during the first week of August, when the security operations began. During the week that ended Oct. 14, the body count was 176. For the week that ended Oct. 21, the body count was 143, a noteworthy decline but still more than at the start of the operation.
 There are a number of ideas being discussed in private to fix the plan. Americans still hope to receive additional Iraqi Army forces next month. They also hope to persuade the Iraqi government to purge police stations infiltrated by militias. Iraqi deployment areas may also be realigned.
 American forces have already shifted some forces to new high-violence sectors and may make further adjustments. Shrinking the military zone controlled by the American Baghdad-based division, which now extends south to the cities of Najaf and Karbala, has also been discussed as a way to increase the density of American troops in the capital.
 Erecting more barricades to section off parts of the city has been proposed by some officers. So has legitimizing some neighborhood watch organizations. That idea cuts against the policy to abolish militias but has been advocated by some military officials as a useful expedient.
 Keeping the Army's Fourth Division in place in Baghdad instead of rotating it home when it is to be replaced by the First Cavalry Division would substantially increase the number of American troops in the city. But there have been no indications that such an idea is under serious consideration.
 In the final analysis, American officers say, much is in Iraqi hands. The American military is looking toward the Maliki government to finally disband the militias and reintegrate them into Iraqi society. It is not clear if the Iraqi government will follow through on such a step since some senior Iraqi officials have said the militias cannot be broken up until the Sunni-based insurgency is brought to heel.
 American officials also say that the Iraqi government needs to more strictly enforce bans on the possession of illicit weapons and accelerate its reconstruction and job creation programs.
 ''Part of our problem is that we want this more than they do,'' General Thurman said, alluding to the effort to get the Iraqis to put aside sectarian differences and build a unified Iraq. ''We need to get people to stop worrying about self and start worrying about Iraq. And that is going to take national unity.''
 ''Until we get that settled I think we are going to struggle,'' he added.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Capt. Richard Low, right, talking with members of the Iraqi National Police recently. Two Iraqi officers, from different checkpoints in Baghdad, discovered that their radios did not have matching frequencies. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); SHOOTINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (77%) Michael R Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



562 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Running on Experience, a Longtime Incumbent Finds Himself on the Defensive

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Oct. 17 

 BODY:
In this season of anti-incumbency, Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr. is gambling that voters will deem his seniority a virtue. 
 Mr. Shaw, a Republican, plays up his 26 years in the House, constantly reminding voters that he has ''a darned good shot'' at leading the powerful Ways and Means Committee. He likes to say that his opponent, Ron Klein, a Democratic Florida state senator, if elected now would not attain equivalent experience in Washington until he was of geriatric age.
But whether Mr. Shaw's strategy will save him or sink him on Election Day is anyone's guess. 
 Mr. Klein, 49, has painted his opponent's seniority as a crippling flaw, and has put Mr. Shaw, 67, on the defensive about the Iraq war, the Medicare prescription drug program and Social Security, with the latter two being vital issues for the legions of retirees living here. 
 Mr. Klein has called Mr. Shaw a lackey of President Bush, prompting Mr. Shaw to emphasize his differences with the president, whose popularity four years ago helped Mr. Shaw beat back another tough challenger. 
 ''I voted to override the veto on stem cell research,'' Mr. Shaw said in a recent debate with Mr. Klein. ''When the president was going to allow some of the foreign countries to take over our ports, I stood up to the plate and I said no.''
 His struggle reflects the broader challenge Republicans face as they fight to keep control of Congress, but with some striking distinctions: Mr. Shaw is the most senior House incumbent whose seat is threatened, even though Republicans outnumber Democrats in his wealthy Atlantic Coast district, and Mr. Bush remains slightly more popular here than in other parts of the nation. 
 Mr. Klein, a lawyer and an artful networker who has represented Boca Raton in the Florida Legislature since 1992, has raised more money than almost any other Democratic challenger this year. He has forced the low-key Mr. Shaw, who has battled lung cancer in recent years but says he is now healthy, to run more aggressively than usual. 
 ''Over the years he has actively tried to present himself as this grandfatherly, friendly congressman,'' Robert P. Watson, a political science professor at Florida Atlantic University, said of Mr. Shaw. ''Now he's more feisty than I've ever, ever seen him.''
 Mr. Shaw's district, to his detriment, borders that of former Representative Mark Foley, a fellow Republican, in a news market that is especially saturated with reports of Mr. Foley's sexually explicit e-mail messages to Congressional pages. 
 But Mr. Shaw has a financial edge -- he has raised $3.9 million compared with Mr. Klein's $3.2 million -- and is benefiting from the relatively strong economy here.
 ''It's one thing to be in a poor farming town in Nebraska, really feeling the pinch,'' Mr. Watson said. ''But here, everybody is driving around in a brand new Mercedes and going golfing all afternoon. It's hard to have the point of view that the country is going down the wrong path.''
 Florida's 22nd Congressional District runs up the oceanfront in Broward and Palm Beach Counties, through the condominium canyons of Fort Lauderdale and Boynton Beach and wealthy enclaves like Boca Raton, Palm Beach and Jupiter. 
 After Mr. Shaw won the 2000 election by only 600 votes, Republicans redrew the district to exclude several heavily Democratic sections, including a slice of Miami-Dade County.
 Though 40 percent of voters here are Republican, 35 percent are Democrat and 22 percent are unaffiliated, the district still favored John Kerry in the 2004 presidential election, when he won 52 percent of the vote.
 ''All those unaffiliated voters down there seem to have a tendency to go Democratic when it comes to more national issues,'' said Aubrey Jewett, a political science professor at the University of Central Florida.
 Perhaps for that reason, Mr. Shaw has emphasized a local issue: skyrocketing home insurance rates in the wake of hurricanes. He has proposed creating a national catastrophe fund as a backup insurer, spreading insurance risk for national disasters across the country. 
 Mr. Shaw has criticized Mr. Klein for taking contributions from sugar companies -- which environmentalists blame for the decline of the Everglades -- and for representing clients as a lobbyist before local governments. Mr. Klein's law firm opened a lobbying office in Tallahassee this year, but Mr. Klein said he had never lobbied the Legislature.
 Like other Democratic challengers, Mr. Klein has hammered away at Mr. Bush's handling of the war, and he has tried to link Mr. Shaw to the president's policies. He says Mr. Shaw votes for bills supported by the president 90 percent of the time (83 percent, Mr. Shaw says), and attacks him for endorsing the administration's stay-the-course plan for Iraq.
 Mr. Shaw responds like the exasperated parent of a sophomoric son.
 ''I've been in secret briefings; you have not,'' he told Mr. Shaw at a candidate forum in Coral Springs. ''I've been in Iraq, you have not. I've talked to the generals, you have not.''
 Yet, Mr. Shaw also wants voters to know he worked well with a Democratic president, Bill Clinton.
 ''The greatest moments of the Clinton years came when Democrats and Republicans worked together,'' his latest advertisement says, pointing to welfare, Social Security and environmental bills that Mr. Shaw wrote and Mr. Clinton signed. ''More than almost anyone in Congress, Clay Shaw solves problems across party lines.'' 
 Especially since the Foley scandal erupted, Mr. Klein has spoken constantly of ethical lapses among Republicans in Congress and called for an end to the status quo. But Mr. Shaw has not been accused of such lapses and was among the first Republicans to blast Mr. Foley after he resigned on Sept. 29.
 ''If Klein tries to hop on the Foley thing,'' Mr. Jewett said, ''it might not gain him anything and people might think it's unfair to lump Clay Shaw in there.''
 Mr. Klein started campaigning early, in March 2005, and already had strong name recognition and support from having served in the Florida Legislature more than a decade, representing areas shared by the Congressional district. He is Jewish, which is potentially an advantage in a district where about 25 percent of the electorate shares his faith.
 But he is burning money faster than Mr. Shaw is, and the costs of the final campaign stretch could be considerable, as the district is split between two news markets. The final weeks are crucial for Mr. Klein, who must attract undecided voters and turn out his Democratic base.
 ''This is going to be one of those photo-finish things,'' said Rick Wilson, a Republican strategist in Tallahassee, "where it comes down to who works their base hardest and who puts their message out in front of voters in the last days in a way that resonates.'' 
 Both candidates face obstacles in getting out the vote. Mr. Klein could suffer from the lackluster support for Representative Jim Davis, the Democratic candidate for governor, whose name tops the ballot. At the same time, Republicans could stay home out of disgust for the recent Congressional scandals; confidence that Charlie Crist, the Republican candidate for governor and Florida attorney general, could win without their vote; or reluctance to vote for a slate that includes Representative Katherine Harris, the Republican who has run a disastrous campaign against Senator Bill Nelson.
 Mr. Shaw discounts such prospects, saying voters here are more loyal to him than to his party. In past elections, he has won more votes in his district than even Gov. Jeb Bush, he said.

 WINNER: R
DEM: 52
REP.: 48

Demographics

RACE AND ETHNICITY
White: 82% (U.S.: 67)
Black: 4 (U.S.: 13)
Hispanic: 11 (U.S.: 14)

MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $51,200 (U.S.: $44,473)

Map of Florida highlights Jacksonville, Fort Lauderdale, and Miami

(Sources by Census Bureau; Center for Responsive Politics)

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the race for Congress in Florida's 22nd District referred incorrectly to the target of a statement about political experience made during a candidate forum in Coral Springs, Fla. Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., was addressing Ron Klein, his Democratic opponent, when he said: ''I've been in secret briefings, you have not. I've been in Iraq, you have not. I've talked to the generals, you have not.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, left, plays up his seniority while the challenger, Ron Klein, a Democrat and a Florida state senator, attacks the incumbent on his record on Iraq and Social Security. (Photographs by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''HOUSE RACE: Florida 22nd''CandidatesREPUBLICAN: E. Clay Shaw Jr.DEMOCRAT: Ron Klein'04 HouseWINNER: RDEM: 35%REP.: 63'04 President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VETO (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GERIATRICS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (69%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (68%); CANCER (68%); MEDICARE (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (54%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (54%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (53%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); LUNG CANCER (50%) Elections; Public Opinion; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: RON KLEIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Abby Goodnough; E Clay Jr (Rep) Shaw; Ron (Sen) Klein; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%) Florida; Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



563 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: A Different Tactic for Rice: Speaking Softly Without the Stick

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: SHANNON, Ireland, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
With North Korea's nuclear test presenting one of her greatest diplomatic challenges, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has taken an approach that allies say they have seen not often enough from the Bush administration: an effort to persuade and to build consensus, rather than to dictate terms or press for immediate agreement.
 On Sunday the secretary concluded her around-the-world mission to urge American negotiating partners, some with complex relationships to North Korea or to the United States, to start strict enforcement of United Nations military sanctions on North Korea. 
There had been widespread indications that some of the major players were unwilling to take the steps necessary to enforce the sanctions. But as she flew back to Washington, Ms. Rice tried to convey a sense that she had done what was necessary to preserve the required, if nominal, unity among Japan, South Korea, China, Russia and the United States, members of stalled six-party talks with North Korea over its nuclear program.
 Ms. Rice and her foreign counterparts announced no concrete steps to fire up a new embargo machine that could press North Korea, although commitments to a set of initial goals emerged. Thus she was able to contend that important progress had been made toward a new ''nonproliferation regime,'' whose core would be a vastly enhanced regional system of monitoring and inspecting cargo to and from North Korea. 
 ''We could be -- probably will be -- in this regime for a long time,'' Ms. Rice said. While ''it's quite important what happens on Day 1,'' she said, her public diplomacy tried to manage expectations about what was and was not possible from her first foreign lobbying campaign for the sanctions. 
 This was not a trip planned to culminate with agreements signed or even boxes checked off, she said. ''An effective way to monitor and scrutinize and deal with North Korean transfers'' of weapons material, nuclear bombs and missiles will ''have to evolve over a period of time,'' she said.
 Her call for patience and perspective in carrying out sanctions to press North Korea to give up its weapons program and return to six-party talks -- each is anything but inevitable -- echoed a folk maxim about patience and perspective, and also about inevitability, that could be heard on Moscow streets as she met with Kremlin leaders on Saturday and Sunday.
 Ms. Rice, a student of Russian language, history and politics, is familiar with the old saying Russians quote as the skies turn to slate and chilled rain hits a frosty earth: ''Winter doesn't begin until the third snow.''
 As Ms. Rice enters the autumn months of the Bush administration's tenure in office, she dropped early administration mantras -- like other nations are ''either with us or against us'' -- on this trip, and instead repeated at each whistle-stop, ''I did not come here, nor will I go anyplace else, to try and dictate to governments what they ought to do in response to Resolution 1718,'' the United Nations Security Council resolution on North Korea.
 The Bush administration's struggle to rethink a faltering Iraq strategy hung over her entire trip like a shadow. Given that the Bush administration has been more reticent all along to take strong action toward North Korea, her more collegial approach was not entirely unexpected. And her approach may have been more necessity than virtue. 
 The administration may simply be in no position to press its partners in a tougher way over North Korea. To paraphrase a comment -- not entirely well received -- by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Ms. Rice's cabinet colleague at the Pentagon, a nation goes off to diplomatic negotiations with the bargaining chips it has, not the ones it might like to have or will be able to have at a later date.
 But Ms. Rice's tempered message played well across Asia, and extremely well in Japan, whose policies were already mostly in line with those of Washington.
 Unexpectedly, the Chinese responded warmly, too, prompting fresh assessments from senior State Department officials that the North Korea crisis may, in the end, bring the United States and China into closer partnership on other issues.
 In the three-dimensional chess of diplomacy, deterrence and sanctions, China's broad endorsement of the American position -- at least as put in resolution form by the Security Council -- was in no small measure encouraged by a clear statement from Ms. Rice reaffirming the United States' military commitment to the defense of Japan. That statement helped preclude, at least for now, any serious move by Japan to start its own nuclear weapons program, which China knows would jumble its security calculus in the region.
 The United States and China are now on the same page on this issue in ways they have not been before, and any solution to the North Korea crisis leads through Beijing. But the United States and China still have stark differences over whether the ultimate goal is to peacefully manage a status quo relationship with a denuclearized North Korea, as China prefers, or whether to add pressure to the point where a change in its leadership may occur.
 China fears that if North Korea came unglued, millions of refugees would flood across its border.
 South Korea, not China, was the odd man out. America's military ally on the lower half of the tense Korean Peninsula was reluctant in its public endorsement of the positions urged by Washington. South Korea feels most threatened by North Korea's nuclear program, but also the most exposed politically, and a number of South Korean opinion leaders are doing all they can to rescue their policy of engaging, not isolating, North Korea.
 Ms. Rice acknowledged during her journey that Iran, with its own nuclear ambitions, was watching her efforts. She left one senior adviser in Asia to continue discussions of sanctions, while another spent time at the working-group level to devise specific goals and rules for monitoring and inspecting North Korean cargo.
 Administration officials say those initial steps forward may already be influencing North Korean decisions about whether to hold off on a second test, even as they acknowledge the absolute unpredictability of the leadership. Over time, they hope, a strict sanctions architecture can be erected to contain its nuclear ambitions and prevent the transfer of weapons to another state or to terrorists.
 All that may be true, but only if winter does not begin until the third snow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LOBBYING (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); HISTORY (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (61%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) United Nations; Security Council (Un)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%) Thom Shanker; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



564 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
At the unveiling of the new Hearst building in Manhattan some weeks ago, there was a magical moment when two sturdy media icons, Oprah Winfrey and Martha Stewart, ended up chatting with one another. Each occupies a singular place in American cultural consciousness: Ms. Winfrey, with her bootstrap message of personal empowerment, and Ms. Stewart, with her relentless pursuit of steely domestic perfection (she dismissed prison time as if it were a fallen souffle).
 But there was a runway between them big enough to land another behemoth: Rachael Ray, who's probably best known for giggling her way through 30-minutes recipes on the Food Network. 
Compared to Ms. Winfrey and Ms. Stewart, it is easy to dismiss Ms. Ray as a confection. But as a businesswomen, she is ditzy like a fox. While other start-up magazines wither, Everyday With Rachael Ray, published by Reader's Digest North American Publishing, is exploding, with a promised circulation of 1.7 million by next year. As an author, Ms. Ray has few peers, with 16 cookbooks that have total sales of nearly five million. 
 Her ''30 Minute Meals'' is the highest rated show on the Food Network and with the addition of her other shows about budget travel and dining, more than 11 million viewers watch her every week. Last month, she took her down-home ethic beyond the kitchen, coming up with a general interest five-day-a-week talk show, ''Rachael Ray,'' which had the highest rated debut of any show since ''Dr. Phil.'' Those are some big numbers for a woman that was doing in-store cooking demonstrations a little more than five years ago.
 Whatever is at work here, it isn't just the food. Ms. Ray's ad-hoc kitchen ways -- spices measured by the palm and mistakes covered up with more olive oil -- represent a sharp departure from the aspiration that drives most cooking shows and magazines. She prepares food on the fly that actual civilians can make and eat, an approach that people with serious culinary backgrounds generally find unbearable; they see it as a plague of locusts served over a bed of toads in runny sauce. 
 OPRAH taught us we can be better human beings. Martha taught us we can do better than is humanly possible. And Ms. Ray? She thinks better is overrated. Now, you want some nachos and a cold one to go with that?
 In an interview, Ms. Ray conceded some of the criticisms that trigger her harshest detractors' gag reflexes -- that she is a clumsy cook, smiles too much and has less than demure hands.
 ''It's all true and I can't do much about it at this point,'' she said by phone. ''I am doing programming that goes into people's homes and kitchens, about their kids and their pets, really personal stuff, and not everybody is going to like what I do.
 ''When I first heard from the Food Network, I told them that I was beer in a bottle and they are champagne, but it worked out,'' she said. ''I'm too loud one day and giggle too much next, or flub the intro, but what I do is not about technique. I need a story to go with the burger. People want to relax a little.''
 Standing in line to watch the taping of her daytime show near Grand Central Station last Wednesday, a trio of women who had driven in from Long Island talked about how ''natural'' and ''down to earth,'' Ms. Ray was. Ann Marchesiello suggested Ms. Ray's time-saving idea of placing a garbage bowl next to the cutting board may be, ''the greatest thing in the world.''
 Corey Champeau drove down from Connecticut to watch with her husband, Matt, a testament to how Ms. Ray, who once posed in lingerie licking a spoon for the men's magazine FHM, draws across genders. Ms. Champeau tunes in for the tips and recipes, while Mr. Champeau said, unlike most kitchen goddesses, ''she's the kind of girl you could actually ask out.'' (Actually you can't: she's married. And so are you.)
 Just then, chef and bon vivant Anthony Bourdain came ambling down the block, stopping by for some voice-over work for his show on the Travel Channel. Rather than toe the chef's line that Ms. Ray is a perky philistine who is not so much democratizing dining as dumbing it down, he said her appeal had nothing to do with cooking or food.
 ''This is about a very recognizable, comfortable person, someone we all think we know, the sort of dream mom or sister we never had,'' he said, calibrating his words. ''People are attracted to her warm, if strident, embrace of the familiar.''
 But Ms. Ray's folksy approach belies the sophistication of her message. She is part of the cut-to-the-chase genre of media, like Lucky, Domino and Real Simple magazines, and their success is built on this fact of modern life: if people are more secure economically, it is only because they are working longer and harder than ever before. Lifestyle porn is fine and all -- who wouldn't want to have that epic downtown loft in Architectural Digest or those lemon caper calamari steaks in Gourmet? -- but even if you can afford the ingredients, you can't afford the time to conjure them before dinner. 
 Ms. Ray's recipes may call for store-bought turkey loaf but she is really trafficking in the ultimate modern luxury: time. Other magazine cover lines promise to make you fit in 30 days or give you better orgasms in six steps. The latest Everyday With Rachael Ray promises ''Fall Style: lazy weekends, comfort food, easy entertainment.'' Inside, there are ''Messes and Successes,'' a shopping list that includes frozen fish sticks and a food shot that includes a can -- the horror! -- of beef broth, plain as day. The pitch for her show in the magazine pretty much sums the ethos up, suggesting viewers will ''realize that life just doesn't have to be that hard.'' 
 Of course, life is plenty hard, which is why a woman who tends to find succor in a slurp of store-bought pasta is hitting a sweet spot. That may not meet Ms. Stewart's definition of a good thing, but Rachael Ray's fans know that, after a long day, it's all good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); OILS & FATS (50%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Television; Magazines; Sales; Ratings and Rating Systems; Cooking and Cookbooks; Biographical Information

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Food Network; Everyday With Rachael Ray (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: RACHAEL RAY (93%); OPRAH WINFREY (92%); MARTHA STEWART (89%); DR PHIL MCGRAW (58%) Rachael Ray; Martha Stewart; Oprah Winfrey; David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006



565 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; HAVING IT ALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Northwestern Town Is Awash In Sun and Those Drawn by It

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO

DATELINE: SEQUIM, Wash. 

 BODY:
HERE in the foothills of the Olympic Mountains, near the northwesternmost corner of the 48 contiguous states, retirees have flocked to a place they affectionately call the Blue Hole.
 Some have come for the weather. A typical year in these parts has 299 days of sunshine, and fewer than 17 inches of rain fell last year, far less than the amount that soaked Seattle, which is just a short drive and ferry ride away.
Still other recent transplants to Sequim (pronounced skwim), which is on the Olympic peninsula, moved here for the quality of life -- access to outdoor activities that include fishing, biking, hiking, birding and golfing, not to mention the city's eclectic shopping and vibrant art community. 
 ''They don't call this place the Blue Hole for nothing,'' said Diane Johnston, 74, who moved from suburban Lynnwood in 2000, when she felt it had become too crowded. ''It's like one big playground -- we have it all.'' 
 Whatever the reasons, Sequim is on the rise, particularly among retirees. According to the most recent data from the Census Bureau, the city's population rose nearly 20 percent, to 4,323 in 2000 from 3,616 in 1990. Marny Hannan, the executive director of the local Chamber of Commerce, said that the total had since topped 5,000, and added that about 60 percent of the residents were 65 or older.
 This influx of retirees has resulted in a development boom. Open space has given way to tracts of new homes. The city and surrounding area have sprouted a Costco, Wal-Mart and Home Depot.
 Most people welcome this growth. Some, however, including Ray Millard, a 72-year-old who retired to Sequim in 1991, view it as a sign that their once-tiny town may be growing up too fast.
 ''Someone put out the word that this was a place to retire and now it's becoming a metropolis,'' Mr. Millard said. ''I only hope we don't get too big.''
 Sequim, which means ''quiet waters'' in the language of the local S'Klallam American Indian group, began in the 1880's as a farming town, its arid prairies irrigated by ditches that carried glacial runoff from the Olympic Mountains. Produce from the valley supplied food for the booming city of Victoria, British Columbia, across the Strait of Juan de Fuca. Over time, as Canadians planted their own farms, the need for imports declined.
 Sequim remained a farm community and stayed small for decades. Then, in the 1970's, an older population began trickling in. These arrivals reached a peak in the last few years, when retirees from states like California, New Mexico and Arizona were able to make good profits from selling their homes.
 Olaf Protze was one such transplant. After years of working as a church custodian in Danville, Calif., Mr. Protze retired in 2001 and moved north with his wife, Charlotte. The Protzes looked at a number of communities across the Northwest, but said they were drawn to Sequim's charm and location in particular.
 ''In choosing a home, we were looking for a small-town atmosphere within easy driving distance of a major city and close proximity of the ocean,'' Mr. Protze said.
 With the money from their California house, the couple bought so much land they were able to open the Red Caboose Getaway, a bed-and-breakfast where guests sleep and also eat in renovated railroad cars. For Mr. Protze, a die-hard train fan who calls himself the property's ''stationmaster,'' the endeavor is the realization of a lifelong dream.
 ''I always knew I wanted to do this, but I had to come to Sequim to make it a reality,'' he said during a visit in mid-September. ''I couldn't have imagined retirement being any better.''
 Remarkably, the housing market that lured the Protzes five years ago is still chugging along. The Sequim Association of Realtors, an independent association of local real estate professionals, says that the median home price in September was $280,000, down from $317,000 in September 2005, but up from $241,000 in 2004.
 Mike McAleer, the chairman of the group's government affairs committee, said that most of the people buying homes in Sequim were retirees. ''Seniors definitely are leading the pack,'' he said of the city's newest homeowners. ''A lot of them come with a fair amount of equity, so our prices don't disturb them at all.''
 Yet the picture in Sequim isn't entirely rosy. A controversy in 2004 over the arrival of Wal-Mart polarized the community, leaving retirees like Mr. Millard frustrated with a perceived lack of planning by the municipal government. Similar disputes are brewing over proposed housing developments scheduled to break ground early next year.
 Linda Rotmark, the executive director of the Clallam County Economic Development Council in nearby Port Angeles, has expressed concern over other issues related to growth. Specifically, she is worried that the area's shrinking hospital system will not be able to support the increasing number of elderly patients.
 ''What happens if a bunch of our residents become ill at once?'' she asked. ''Will we be ready to process their Medicare transactions and give them the care they need?''
 Help may be on the way. The Olympic Area Agency on Aging, a local group dedicated to addressing some of these problems, recently received a $750,000 grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in Princeton, N.J., to overhaul elder-care service on the peninsula.
 Ms. Rotmark said the agency would use the grant to rethink every aspect of the current medical climate, including house calls, hospice care and administration.
 Others are taking a more grass-roots approach to the issue of quality of life here. At the Sequim Senior Center, for instance, which sits just up the street from Mr. Protze's depot, retirees have organized a volunteer program that offers their contemporaries tax assistance and transportation to and from the doctor.
 Michael Smith, the center's executive director, said the program was a good example of the enthusiastic and supportive small-town attitudes that make Sequim a great place to retire.
 ''We're growing, but we're very much still a community,'' said Mr. Smith, who is 44. ''No matter what kind of growth happens here in the next couple of years, I don't think that's going to change at all.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: RECENT ARRIVAL -- Olaf Protze of the Red Caboose Getaway bed-and-breakfast is a Sequim transplant, moving from California in 2001.
 WEATHER'S NICE -- Sequim, Wash., is not far from Seattle, but the climate is much sunnier and drier. (Photographs by Anna Mia Davidson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); WEATHER (77%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); CENSUS (73%); HIKING (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); GOLF (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); IMPORT TRADE (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%) Special Sections; Population; Aged; Area Planning and Renewal; Geographic Profiles; Retirement

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Matt Villano

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%) Sequim (Wash); Sequim (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



566 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; BENEFITS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: There but for Health Coverage Go I Out the Door

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
MANY save for years, dreaming of early retirement. But there is often a catch: though the potential retirees may no longer need the salary, they cannot forgo the health insurance.
 These people are too young for Medicare, the federal program that typically provides coverage for those 65 and older. And as more employers eliminate retiree health benefits, early retirees are unlikely to have any sort of company-sponsored plan once they stop working. The result, say health policy experts and financial planners, is that many people who want to retire early may not be able to find health insurance they can afford -- if they can find it at all.
 When Gene Matthews retired three years before he could qualify for Medicare, he assumed he would have no trouble buying an individual insurance policy. ''I was really silly in my thinking,'' said Mr. Matthews, who lives in Park City, Utah. He discovered he could not get private insurance because he had high blood pressure, even though he was active, playing golf and skiing, and taking the proper medication. 
 He took advantage of a federal law that allowed him to continue the coverage he had with his former employer for 18 months. After returning to work for the same employer for a short period, he was then able to retire again and extend that coverage for another 18 months. In August, he turned 65 and happily enrolled in Medicare; he pays just $150 or so for his benefits, which include prescription drug coverage. 
 His wife, Ann, who has worked part time at a local ski resort, is not so lucky -- she still faces one year in which she will not have coverage and will still be too young for Medicare. Mr. Matthews said that his wife may simply work full time for the health benefits she needs.
 ''The risk of not having health insurance is catastrophic,'' Mr. Matthews said.
 But Mr. Matthews's experience is hardly unique, said Bil Jeppson, a financial planner with Financial Strategies Institute in Midvale, Utah, where Mr. Matthews is a client. He estimates that about a third of the group's clients face the same challenge: they have the financial means to retire but difficulty in finding health insurance. Some pay as much as $1,200 a month for a plan offered by the state for people who are unable to get coverage elsewhere. 
 ''We're seeing this problem more and more,'' said Mark Rylance, a financial planner with RS Crum in Newport Beach, Calif. 
 Despite longstanding recognition of the lack of options for early retirees, there is little activity on the federal or state level to address the issue. The idea of allowing early retirees to buy Medicare coverage, for example, has been ''a perennial'' in policy discussions in Congress, but ''it doesn't go anywhere,'' said David A. Osterndorf, a senior health consultant for Towers Perrin, which specializes in employee benefits and compensation.
 Congress is reluctant to come up with a national solution because most people who retire early are able to find insurance, said Paul Fronstin, a researcher at the Employee Benefit Research Institute. Recent counts put the number of uninsured retirees between the ages of 55 and 64 around 800,000. 
 ''Congress doesn't perceive this as a problem because the numbers aren't so big,'' he said.
 And some policymakers are unwilling to consider expanding Medicare because it could represent a step toward government-run health insurance, said Richard W. Johnson, a health economist at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit policy research group. ''You get that much closer to universal coverage,'' he said. 
 On the state level, legislative efforts have focused on addressing the insurance needs of active workers. Early retirees ''tend to be a lost group and missed in this conversation,'' Mr. Osterndorf said.
 Options and their availability depend on circumstances. If just a year or so short of 65 -- and Medicare eligibility -- the retiree can probably use company-sponsored coverage for at least 18 months under provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, known as Cobra. 
 While choosing to continue the coverage may not be cheap, it allows employees to pay the group rates available to their former employers rather than their trying to forage for an individual policy, experts say. Mr. Matthews, for example, paid roughly $600 a month for his coverage.
 Another option may be to buy coverage from a former employer even if that employer does not subsidize the cost of the plan. Intel, for example, is one of many large companies that allow its retirees to buy health insurance from the company, even when they have a pre-existing condition that would disqualify them in the individual market. Some 30 to 40 percent of the company's retirees have enrolled in the program, said Steve Lensing, a benefits program manager for Intel.
 The company also contributes to an account, based on an employee's years of service, that retirees can use when they leave Intel to lower the premiums they would otherwise pay. The cost of coverage varies, Mr. Lensing said, but tends to be around $9,000 a year for early retirees.
 Many early retirees are able to avail themselves of some insurance, relying on company-sponsored plans or policies available through a spouse's employer. But a sizable number of retirees are left to their own devices, according to Mr. Johnson. Buying an individual policy can be easier in a few states, like New York, where insurers are required to offer community-rated coverage, grouping individuals into a ''community'' and charging the same rate for the entire group. ''It means the premiums in these states tend to be higher, but you cannot be turned down,'' said Nancy E. Frank, a financial planner in Manhattan who heads Frank Advisory Services. Depending on the plan, a resident of New York City may pay as little as $500 a month for coverage -- or roughly twice that amount.
 Other states that rely on community-based pricing include Vermont and New Jersey, but most states allow insurers to set the rates for individual coverage, which can make policies for people at high risk for medical treatment either unaffordable or unavailable.
 Individuals may have other options, depending on where they live. Because Mr. Matthews's former employer was based in California and used a California insurer, his wife has the option of converting the coverage she had through Cobra to an individual policy. Mr. Matthews also said that AARP, the group that represents the nation's retirees, offers health insurance in some states for people older than 50. Mr. Matthew's home state, Utah, so far is not among them. 
 But even when the premiums are affordable, many people are disappointed in the benefits that are offered, said Thom K. Hall, a planner with Financial Strategies Institute. The coverage does not match that of their former employer, and they may have to switch doctors or pay more for care.
 For people who simply cannot get private insurance, many states offer programs that are intended to cover high-risk individuals. But those plans can be costly -- priced at well over $1,000 a month -- and may not offer much in benefits. ''It's a huge problem,'' said Mr. Matthews, who said that many of his friends have found that they could not buy individual policies. 
 The result is that many early retirees may have to consider finding work that offers them coverage. Some people can work out an arrangement with a former employer who will give them work as a consultant. 
 Others might want to consider finding work with employers who offer coverage to part-time workers, like Starbucks Coffee, which gives benefits to those who work 20 hours or more a week. Financial planners and health policy experts agree that the options available to those under 65 who want to retire are few, with people paying much more of their retirement savings to health care than they had expected. ''I don't know any silver lining we're missing,'' said Mr. Rylance, the California planner, who said that many of his clients had simply not thought about health care when they started to discuss retiring early. ''When it's brought up, it does scare people,'' he said.
 And, of course, some people decide not to retire after all. ''A lot of people keep their jobs simply for the benefits,'' said Ms. Frank, the New York planner. While they may flirt with the idea of retiring, they may stop thinking about it once they realize just how much it costs.
 ''People who have worked in a corporation all their life have no idea what health insurance costs,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jeffrey Spokes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); EARLY RETIREMENT (91%); MEDICARE (91%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); RESORTS (69%); SKIING FACILITIES (67%); HYPERTENSION (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Special Sections; Retirement; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: Medicare

PERSON: Reed Abelson

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



567 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Planning: It's More Than Filling in the Blanks 

BYLINE: By ERIC A. TAUB

 BODY:
ANY number of Web sites offer simple online calculators for retirement. Fill out a few easy questions about your assets, income and expenditures, and you will know how much money you will need.
 And that is what you should not waste your time doing, said Laurence J. Kotlikoff, a professor of economics at Boston University. ''Getting retirement planning right is rocket science,'' he said.
Knowing how much money you will need involves a wide range of variables that can drastically change your financial position. They include matters like the property tax in your state, when you decide to withdraw from your 401(k) and whether you receive Social Security benefits before or after you take money from other private retirement funds. 
 Still, companies continue to offer simple questionnaires. Fidelity does so because ''we are trying to break the inertia,'' said Carolyn Clancy, Fidelity's senior vice president for personal investments. The company, she said, hopes that an individual will explore the much more extensive questionnaire on its Web site and ask the company's financial planners for further assistance. 
 The more popular tools, like those from Fidelity, Quicken and Vanguard, have a number of similarities. They all populate the fields with information culled from in-house accounts or previously entered information. They also have ''what-if'' possibilities: changes in income, rates of return and inflation and age of retirement, among others.
 The tools offered by a financial institution might also have a built-in conflict of interest; while the software is available to anyone, it is intended to encourage users to set up retirement accounts with the institution. That makes them not very useful, said Darius Gagne, a financial adviser at Quantum Wealth Management Investments in Los Angeles. Using retirement planning software, Mr. Gagne said, is ''like building your own home without an architect.''
 The brokerage houses do not deny that they would like users of their retirement planning software to delve deeper into their companies' offerings, but they say that it is an advantage for the customer.
 Vanguard will prepare a one-time customized financial plan, based on answers to the online questionnaire, at no charge to customers who have $250,000 in Vanguard assets or who bring $100,000 into the company. Fidelity offers its Income Management Account, which sends e-mail notifications if you are withdrawing retirement funds at too rapid a rate or if your portfolio investment classes should be reweighted.
 Both Fidelity and Vanguard believe that an individual should have enough assets for retirement to generate 85 percent of one's income during the working years. According to Ms. Clancy at Fidelity, most people have enough assets to cover only 57 percent of their needs.
 Professor Kotlikoff said that that required figure was drastically inflated. ''The typical rule of thumb for retirement income is too high for the middle class,'' he said. ''People cannot meet that target without investing in risky securities.'' Encouraging risks, he added, is ''a form of financial malpractice.''
 To put his theories into practice, Professor Kotlikoff developed ESPlanner. He faults typical retirement calculators for overly simplifying the process. The amount you need to save and what you can spend ''is very sensitive to minor fluctuations,'' he said.
 Here is a look at four popular programs:

ESPLANNER -- Rather than ask users how much money they want to have in retirement, the program ($149-$199 at esplanner.com) finds the appropriate spending target for each user. ESPlanner can determine the financial consequences of a number of actions, including moving to a state with lower taxes (the program includes tax data for every state) or taking Social Security before a 401(k). It can determine whether someone is saving too much, resulting in higher-than-necessary taxes.

FIDELITY -- The company's free Retirement Income Planner software uses a wide range of financial data to help people determine how much they can spend before the money runs out. Account assets of Fidelity customers are automatically loaded into the program. Sidebar tips help users understand the implications of variables. Users can vary such items as life expectancy, and whether they wish to die with or without assets. Fidelity will suggest various mutual funds, including those marketed by other companies and offered through Fidelity's Funds Network program.

QUICKEN -- Available as a feature within the Windows-based Quicken 2007 Deluxe product ($59.95), the software can download financial information from 4,300 institutions directly into the retirement calculator. Anticipated inflation rates, age when taking Social Security and tax rates can be changed by the user. Users are advised if they are on their way to having enough assets or if they should save more. The program warns them if their appreciation rate seems higher than normal, or if they forget to enter the value of an obvious asset, like a home.

VANGUARD -- The company helps investors determine how much to save for retirement, explains the types of I.R.A.'s and why it pays to start saving early, how investment costs affect savings and when to cash out of an employer's retirement fund. The tools, which can be used at no charge, do not advise people when to start taking Social Security, but they do show the effects of starting it at different ages. Nor are investors advised to switch out of funds if they are not performing well; the company says it does not believe in trying to time the market.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE SOFTWARE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); WEB SITES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (64%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Individual Retirement Accounts; Special Sections; Software

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%)

PERSON: Eric A Taub

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



568 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Two Doors Open on Inge's Lively but Curdled World

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Loneliness -- the kind that gnaws quietly at the soul, fills empty rooms with an oppressive presence and turns a pleasant Sunday afternoon into an invitation to despair -- is at the very heart of the work of William Inge, the now little-celebrated American playwright whose popularity in the 1950's rivaled that of Arthur Miller and Tennessee Williams.
 The ordinary folks in Inge's dramas -- housewives and waitresses, salesmen and saloon singers -- do not have access to language that would give lyrical voice to their yearning for love and companionship, as in the work of Williams, but the feeling is true nonetheless, expressed in shamed silences, embarrassed smiles, the clumsy exchange of banalities and, occasionally and alarmingly, confused cries of anguish and desperation.
Inge, who suffered from depression, committed suicide in 1973, his career in steep decline, and you could say that loneliness dogs him yet. The four major plays from the 50's on which his faded fame tentatively rests haven't been subject to the kind of exciting rediscovery that regularly burnishes or re-establishes the reputations of Miller and Williams. Broadway revivals of ''Bus Stop'' and ''Picnic'' in the 1990's -- the first since the original productions -- were greeted tepidly. 
 With their larger casts of characters and livelier humor, those two are actually the most enduringly popular of the big four. Neither ''Come Back, Little Sheba,'' the 1950 play that marked Inge's breakthrough, nor ''The Dark at the Top of the Stairs,'' his most autobiographical play and last real stage success, from 1957, has made it back to Broadway at all. 
 So it is surprising, and intriguing, to find warmly received productions of these two plays running simultaneously at small theaters here. This is not exactly an Inge festival -- the concurrent stagings are just a coincidence -- but the acclaim for David Cromer's production of ''Sheba'' for the Shattered Globe Theater, which opened first, has undoubtedly helped fuel interest in the American Theater Company's staging of ''The Dark at the Top of the Stairs,'' directed by Damon Kiely, which recently extended its run through Nov. 12.
 ''Sheba,'' which ended its run on Saturday, is the better-known play, primarily because of the movie version that earned Shirley Booth an Oscar to match her Tony for creating the role of the lonesome Lola onstage. (''Dark'' was also filmed.) It is also the better play. With its poignant story of the troubled relationship between a slatternly, chattering housewife and her alcoholic husband, it has an emotional clarity that the more diffuse ''Dark at the Top of the Stairs'' does not.
 Mr. Cromer's precisely detailed production trains a clear gaze on the two souls trapped in a marriage that has slowly curdled, as the shared happiness of Doc and Lola's youth, baldly symbolized by the little puppy that ain't comin' back any time soon, has given way to solitary helpings of disappointment. In the tight confines of the Victory Gardens Greenhouse Theater, the audience is almost sharing morning coffee with the bustling Lola (Linda Reiter), the gentle Doc (John Judd) and their boarder, Marie (Maggie Corbett), whose nubile beauty and healthy sexuality unsettle both of them in different ways.
 Scuttling quickly around her kitchen and living room (designed in acutely drab detail by Kevin Hagan), Ms. Reiter's Lola is refreshingly softer-hued than Booth's memorably bleating Lola. Inge did not exactly understate Lola's loneliness -- must she shanghai both the postman and the milkman with assaults of small talk? -- but Ms. Reiter, who bears a resemblance to Judi Dench, shares some of that great actress's natural warmth, too. She dignifies the character with the graceful depth of feeling she brings to the role, in particular in the telling silences that punctuate the stream of chipper talk. The vision of Lola at the front door, slowly turning back to face her empty living room as if it were the gallows, reveals the anguish of her daily solitude in a manner that goes beyond her homely language. 
 If the skills of a fine actress are required to save Lola from either bathos or sheer silliness, the role of Doc poses its challenges, too. Mr. Judd, who appeared as Laurence Olivier in ''Orson's Shadow'' Off Broadway (a role he created for Mr. Cromer's production at the Steppenwolf Theater Company in Chicago), performs with a contained economy that suggests the inward energies Doc must devote to waging a moment-by-moment battle against the furies in his soul. These are unleashed in the play's climactic scene, in which a fallen-off-the-wagon Doc subjects his cowering wife to a torrent of cruel abuse. Mr. Judd performs it with a harshness that is harrowing to watch; squirming in your seat, you almost forget the scene's essential staginess. 
 But you don't, quite. ''Sheba'' was Inge's first successful play, and he would show a more graceful touch in ''Bus Stop'' and ''Picnic,'' in which the pathos that paved his work like linoleum -- and the clotted sexuality sometimes spilled across it -- was spread around to a wider variety of characters. Concentrated heavily in the characterizations of Doc and particularly Lola, it retains a slightly mawkish flavor, even in Mr. Cromer's emotionally trenchant production.
 ''Sheba'' was Inge's first success, but not his first play. That was ''Farther Off From Heaven,'' written in 1947 under the inspiration of ''The Glass Menagerie,'' which Inge had seen with Williams himself, who had befriended him and encouraged him to try his hand at drama. (Inge was working as a critic in St. Louis at the time.) Ten years later, Inge reworked the play as ''The Dark at the Top of the Stairs,'' but blurred traces of Williams's influence are still evident. 
 The central character, a frazzled Midwestern mother and wife named Cora Flood (Cheryl Graeff), is like Amanda Wingfield stripped of the Southern graces that disguise the hint of cruelty in her desire to force her offspring into joining the rough flow of life. Like Amanda, Cora has a pathologically shy daughter, Reenie (Kelly O'Sullivan), whom she cattle-prods into sociability; a sensitive son, Sonny (Edward Heffernan); and an essentially absent husband, Rubin (Tim Decker), a salesman on the road a lot. Mr. Kiely's cast largely does well by the sometimes obvious material, although Ms. Graeff's crabbed Cora could use more warmth. 
 The play was bold for its time, with its sober and complex depiction of marital dissatisfaction and the fraying fabric of American family life. But today the strained subplot involving the suicide of a minor character -- a Jewish boy nicely played by Jurgen Hooper, who takes Reenie to a local party -- registers as a fatally histrionic touch that breaks the spell of small-town frustration. (This doomed and exotic fellow even has a movie star for a mother, who doesn't come to the funeral.)
 Inge did not have a gift for the bold stroke, as Williams and Miller did in vastly different ways, Williams with his heady lyricism and outsized but still richly human characters, Miller with his taste for stark moral inquiry. (Inge's shrill screenplay for ''Splendor in the Grass'' has dated none too well.) The strident bids for a richer-hued theatricalism -- Doc's drunk scene, the spinster schoolteacher's hysteria in ''Picnic,'' the suicide in ''The Dark at the Top of the Stairs'' -- sort of stick out like palm trees on a Kansas prairie.
 Inge came from Kansas, and his writing is most moving when it sticks to the prosaic rhythms of his characters' lives and the homespun flavor of their talk. There's nothing to do about those palm trees now, of course, but when fine actors instill his everyday folk with the warm blood of real humanity, as they do in particular in the Shattered Globe's ''Sheba,'' you can at least squint a little and pretend you don't see them.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Judd and Linda Reiter in Inge's ''Come Back, Little Sheba.'' (Photos by Janna Giacoppo)(pg. E1)
 Kelly O'Sullivan, left, Cheryl Graeff and Edward Heffernan in ''The Dark at the Top of the Stairs'' at American Theater Company in Chicago. (Photo by Johnny Knight)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); SUICIDE (74%); WRITERS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); DEPRESSION (68%) Theater; Theater; Theater; Theater

ORGANIZATION: Shattered Globe Theater ; American Theater Company

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; William (1913-73) Inge; David Cromer; Damon Kiely

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



569 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Extended Stay, Extended Pampering 

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The Fairmont Washington knows Andrew Breslow's room preference, his fondness for foam pillows and his favorite cocktail: Jack Daniels with club soda. But that is not why Mr. Breslow, a tax lawyer from Southlake, Tex., likes to check into the hotel on his extended business trips to Washington. 
 ''They make sure I look good,'' he said. ''If I'm not dressed right -- if maybe my socks don't match or my shirt collar is turned up -- they'll say something to me. Someone will pull me aside and say, 'You might want to try a different pair of socks.' It really makes me feel like I'm at home.''
Free fashion advice is just one of the benefits that business hotels like the Fairmont offer. Resorts have been making a special effort to cater to their long-term guests lately, not only by adding perks like grocery shopping, DVD rentals and laundry services at no extra charge, but also by introducing unusual amenities that are not in their brochures. 
 With good reason. By many measures, business trips are getting longer. The average guest at an extended-stay hotel checked in for 15 nights in 2005, up by one night from 2004, according to the Highland Group, a hotel industry consulting firm that specializes in extended-stay lodging.
 A survey of holders of Barclaycard Business cards in Britain found that businesspeople will on average be spending an extra night away from home each month, up from 4.1 nights now, to 5.2 nights by 2015.
 There are many reasons for the apparent increase in the duration of business trips, according to experts. A healthy economy is keeping business travel at record levels. Rising air fares and the delays and frustrations at the security checkpoints are pressing business travelers to extend their stays over a weekend instead of commuting back and forth between a job site, according to experts and business travelers.
 ''Many hotels are making an effort to get to know the individual preferences of their return guests,'' said Debra F. Cannon, director of the school of hospitality at Georgia State University. ''I have heard of rearranging furniture and even letting guests bring in personal items, like artwork, for their stays.''
 The Fairmont Washington, for example, sometimes issues Mr. Breslow the keys to his favorite room, the spacious Georgetown Suite, when he arrives from Dallas. If it is not available, he gets a room with a balcony. His favorite cocktail is waiting for him.
 He is given access to the exclusive gold floor, which serves breakfast in the morning, hors d'oeuvres in the afternoon and chocolate fondue in the evening. And the staff makes sure guests like Mr. Breslow do not miss a meal. On one recent morning, they delivered eggs Benedict to his room when he could not make it to the gold floor lobby in time for breakfast. ''I used to come up to Washington for four days and then fly back to Dallas for the weekend,'' Mr. Breslow said. ''But flying is such a headache now, so why bother? Now I try to plan my meetings so that I can stay for two weeks at a time.''
 Jeff Senior, a senior vice president for marketing and sales at Fairmont Hotels and Resorts, said Mr. Breslow's experience was becoming increasingly common. ''We are seeing a definite trend to longer stays,'' he said. ''In fact, stays today are almost a full day longer, on average, than only three years ago.''
 In response, his hotel staffs have found themselves doing things that were once uncommon, like helping one long-term guest quit smoking or taking care of another guest who had fallen ill by delivering soup to his room and nursing him back to health. Business travelers, he added, are looking for ''a higher level of personal service.''
 Other hotel chains are catering to similar needs of business guests. Extended Stay Hotels, a chain of 680 long-stay properties in North America, offers its long-term business travelers a similar list of services.
 ''We'll find out what a guest's favorite candy is and buy it for them, or notice the type of soda or bottled water that they drink, and then surprise them with a complimentary case,'' said Jennifer Kearney, a spokeswoman for the hotel chain. Some extended-stay guests are even given the cellphone numbers of hotel managers, just in case they need something after hours.
 At Marriott International, which operates Residence Inn and TownePlace Suites -- two brands that cater to long-term guests -- efforts to make extended-stay guests feel more at home have focused on the lobby areas. Laura Bates, a senior vice president for brand management at Marriott's extended-stay and select service brands, said services like grocery shopping are not quite enough to make a hotel feel like home. ''There needs to be a meeting area where they can connect with other guests or associates, or just hang out and relax,'' she said.
 To that end, Residence Inn is planning to overhaul its lobbies next year to build a more inviting public space. The changes will create what Ms. Bates calls a more ''warm and inviting'' area centered on a fireplace, where guests can unwind, watch TV or work in private seating areas called studies. 
 Marriott is also building outdoor deck areas where it will play host to weekly barbecues and receptions.
 At Staybridge Suites, the extended-stay brand owned by the InterContinental Hotels Group, some hotels will add home theaters to their public areas next year. The rooms will feature a big-screen plasma TV and a surround-sound system. 
 Peggy Berg, president of the Highland Group, sees a future with even more adaptations to the needs of long-term guests. ''Guest rooms and baths will get bigger, which is a good thing, since humans are getting bigger,'' she said. ''They'll also offer bigger fitness centers and more by way of lounges and light food service.''
 Industry experts and hotel executives predict that personalized services will grow along with the new amenities. 
 It could even get to the point where the off-the-book offerings make it on to the books, they suggest. Take rearranging the furniture, for instance. At the upscale Langham Hong Kong Hotel, which is part of the Lanham Hotels International chain, guests can ask the hotel to redecorate the room for them and adjust shelves to their preferred height. 
 At the Four Seasons Hotel Miami, moving desks and chairs around is not an unusual request, either. Recently, the hotel created a complete office in one of its rooms for a guest, a lawyer who was working on a trial. 
 ''For now, furniture moving isn't something we would advertise,'' said Eveliny Bastos-Klein, a hotel spokeswoman. ''But you never know what will happen in the future.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Fairmont Washington provided a computer to a working guest, left. A concierge pours a glass of wine for a guest after a hectic day. (Photographs by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); LAWYERS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (67%) Hotels and Motels

PERSON: Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



570 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Reports It Has an Unsold Inventory of About 50,000 Vehicles 

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: AUBURN HILLS, Mich., Oct. 23 

 BODY:
The Chrysler Group said Monday that it had not yet accounted for tens of thousands of cars in its inventory numbers, which are already considered high by industry standards.
 Chrysler said it had routinely excluded these vehicles, worth billions of dollars, from its tally of unsold cars and trucks because they had not yet been assigned to a specific dealer or ordered by a customer.
 While there are no requirements for how automakers report their inventories, the disclosure has frustrated competitors who say they are being more forthright about their struggles. Chrysler says the practice is common, but other automakers say they abandoned it decades ago, after the oil shortages of the 1970's caused inventories to bloat quickly. 
 A Chrysler spokesman, Kevin McCormick, said about 50,000 vehicles were currently unassigned and therefore not included in Chrysler's inventory figures, adding that the number had been as high as 100,000 this summer. 
 At an average price of $25,000 each, those 100,000 vehicles would be worth $2.5 billion. By year's end, Mr. McCormick said, all of the company's unassigned inventory will be gone.
 ''We're actively working with our dealer body to reduce that,'' he said. ''It's a number that's higher than what we would like for it to be.''
 The situation was first reported Monday by Ward's Automotive Reports, an industry trade publication. But it had been no secret this year that Chrysler was overloaded with unsold vehicles. 
 Flights going into and out of Detroit's international airport pass over expansive mosaics of shiny Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep vehicles produced months ago and deposited in parking lots that would otherwise be vacant. Vehicles have also accumulated on lots near Chrysler's Jeep plants in Toledo, Ohio.
 Officially, Chrysler, a division of DaimlerChrysler, reported that it had an 82-day supply of vehicles in inventory at the end of September, amounting to 86,400 passenger cars and 447,000 light trucks. 
 An additional 50,000 vehicles would bring supplies to about 90 days' worth -- more than triple the number that Asian manufacturers like Toyota and Honda keep on hand, and at least a third above the stocks that auto companies routinely keep available during summer months.
 ''That means they've overstated the level of demand for their vehicles,'' said George Pipas, the chief sales analyst for Ford Motor Company. ''The practice that Chrysler has engaged in over the last two years is something this industry did 25 years ago. It's a practice that we have not engaged in since then.''
 Ford only builds vehicles after they have been ordered by dealers, Mr. Pipas said. General Motors said it occasionally ran assembly lines without specific dealers in mind, for example when new vehicles were introduced. But a company spokesman, John M. McDonald, said every unsold vehicle was included in monthly inventory reports. Currently, he added, G.M. has no unassigned vehicles.
 ''They are all accounted for in the inventory numbers one way or another,'' Mr. McDonald said. ''We don't have any vehicles sitting around not accounted for.''
 G.M. said it had about a million surplus vehicles at the end of September, and Ford reported an inventory of 655,000. About 70 percent of those vehicles were trucks.
 Both companies are much larger than Chrysler, however.
 This is not the first surprise from Chrysler recently. In September, it revealed that, rather than losing $600 million in the third quarter as it had previously projected, it now expects to lose as much as $1.5 billion because sales slumped ahead of the introduction of many new models this fall. DaimlerChrysler plans to report its earnings on Wednesday.
 Chrysler executives admitted they reacted too slowly to shifting consumer demands in light of rising gasoline prices and that they thought deep discounts offered over the summer would keep inventories in check -- an assumption that proved incorrect. 
 One of the first steps taken by Lee Iacocca when he joined Chrysler in 1978 was to begin to deplete the company's order bank which had reached 100,000 vehicles in the late 1970's, after a series of gasoline shortages. 
 ''At a time when cash was dwindling and interest rates were soaring, the costs of carrying this inventory were astronomical,'' Mr. Iacocca wrote in his best-selling 1984 autobiography. ''Even worse, the cars were just sitting there in the great outdoors and slowly deteriorating.''
 Ron Pinelli, president of the Autodata Corporation, an industry statistics firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., said he paid more attention to sales figures and production levels to gauge an automaker's health. But inventory levels are a factor in analysts' impressions of an automaker, Mr. Pinelli said.
 And while the precise level of inventories may not be a critical statistic, Mr. Pinelli said, most people would assume inventory reports to be valid -- especially after Chrysler's image was tarnished by the practice decades ago. Mr. Iacocca, for his part, argued that the order bank was ''destroying the company'' and said that the words ''order bank'' should be struck from Chrysler's corporate vocabulary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); AIRPORTS (64%) Automobiles; Inventories (Economic Indicator)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley; Lee Iacocca

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



571 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Iraq And Your Wallet

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
For every additional second we stay in Iraq, we taxpayers will end up paying an additional $6,300.
 So aside from the rising body counts and all the other good reasons to adopt a timetable for withdrawal from Iraq, here's another: We are spending vast sums there that would be better spent rescuing the American health care system, developing alternative forms of energy and making a serious effort to reduce global poverty.
In the run-up to the Iraq war, Donald Rumsfeld estimated that the overall cost would be under $50 billion. Paul Wolfowitz argued that Iraq could use its oil to ''finance its own reconstruction.'' 
 But now several careful studies have attempted to tote up various costs, and they suggest that the tab will be more than $1 trillion -- perhaps more than $2 trillion. The higher sum would amount to $6,600 per American man, woman and child. 
 ''The total costs of the war, including the budgetary, social and macroeconomic costs, are likely to exceed $2 trillion,'' Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel-winning economist at Columbia, writes in an updated new study with Linda Bilmes, a public finance specialist at Harvard. Their report has just appeared in the Milken Institute Review, as an update on a paper presented earlier this year.
 Just to put that $2 trillion in perspective, it is four times the additional cost needed to provide health insurance for all uninsured Americans for the next decade. It is 1,600 times Mr. Bush's financing for his vaunted hydrogen energy project.
 Another study, by two economists at the American Enterprise Institute, used somewhat different assumptions and came up with a lower figure -- about $1 trillion. Those economists set up a nifty Web site, www.aei-brookings.org/iraqcosts, where you can tinker with the underlying assumptions and come up with your own personal estimates.
 Of course, many of the costs are hidden and haven't even been spent yet. For example, more than 3,000 American veterans have suffered severe head injuries in Iraq, and the U.S. government will have to pay for round-the-clock care for many of them for decades. The cost ranges from $600,000 to $5 million per person. 
 Then there are disability payments that will continue for a half-century. Among veterans of the first gulf war -- in which ground combat lasted only 100 hours -- 40 percent ended up receiving disability payments, still costing us $2 billion each year. We don't know how many of today's veterans will claim such benefits, but in the first quarter of this year more people sought care through the Department of Veterans Affairs than the Bush administration had budgeted for the entire year.
 The war has also forced the military to offer re-enlistment bonuses that in exceptional circumstances reach $150,000. Likewise, tanks, helicopters and other battlefield equipment will have to be replaced early, since the Pentagon says they are being worn out at up to six times the peacetime rate.
 The administration didn't raise taxes to pay for the war, so we're financing it by borrowing from China and other countries. Those borrowing costs are estimated to range from $264 billion to $308 billion in interest. 
 Then there are economic costs to the nation as a whole. For example, the price of oil was in the $20- to $30-a-barrel range early in this decade but has now shot up to more than $50, partly because of the drop in Iraq's oil exports and partly because of war-related instability in the Middle East. Professors Stiglitz and Bilmes note that if just $10 of the increase is attributable to the war, that amounts to a $450 billion drag on the economy over six years.
 The bottom line is that not only have we squandered 2,800 American lives and considerable American prestige in Iraq, but we're also paying $18,000 per household to do so.
 We still face the choice of whether to remain in Iraq indefinitely or to impose a timetable and withdraw U.S. troops. These studies suggest that every additional year we keep our troops in Iraq will add $200 billion to our tax bills. 
 My vote would be to spend a chunk of that sum instead fighting malaria, AIDS and maternal mortality, bolstering American schools, and assuring health care for all Americans. We're spending $380,000 for every extra minute we stay in Iraq, and we can find better ways to spend that money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DESERT STORM (78%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); HEAD INJURIES (61%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



572 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: Homecoming Is a Victory, by Any Definition

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: PORT SULPHUR, La., Oct. 21 

 BODY:
Highway 23 is the only road in and out of this marshy peninsula where the Mississippi River runs to the gulf. Early Friday afternoon, the road was shut down for a stretch of two and a half miles by the wail of sirens and flashing lights, to attend to not a disaster but a parade celebrating the first football game played in the lower end of Plaquemines Parish since Hurricane Katrina. 
 Maids on the homecoming court of South Plaquemines High wore gowns and corsages and rode past atop the backseats of convertibles, handing out roses and drinking cups bearing their names. They also tossed beads, candy and stuffed animals to children who scurried along the shoulder of the two-lane blacktop, scooping up the trinkets in plastic bags.
 Stanley Gaudet, the principal at South Plaquemines High, took the stem of a yellow rose and stuck it in his mouth as if he were a flamenco dancer. ''We need this like New Orleans needs Mardi Gras,'' he said. 
 For just a moment along the parade route, it was possible to ignore the Federal Emergency Management Agency trailers and crumbled buildings, the vulnerable levees and uprooted trees, and even the cemetery, where two coffins had floated away in the storm and still waited in their concrete vaults for a proper reburial. Bulldozers, debris-removal trucks and double-wide trailers sat in traffic for more than an hour as another kind of hurricane recovery ran its jubilant course.
 Homecoming was meant to celebrate the resilience of not one devastated town but three -- Port Sulphur, Buras and Boothville-Venice. The ravaged schools in these fishing, citrus and oil-and-gas communities have been consolidated into South Plaquemines High, whose students nicknamed themselves the Hurricanes in a spirit of unity and defiance. 
 After playing their first seven games on the road or at a neutral site, the Hurricanes finally came home Friday and defeated McMain High of New Orleans by 57-0 in a victory that was as emotional as it was thorough.
 ''This is important for the same reason it was important for the Saints to return to the Superdome,'' said Julie Butler, a home economics teacher at South Plaquemines. ''It means we're still here.''
 After losing three of their first four games, the Hurricanes have won three of their last four. A trip to the state playoffs in Class 2A can be secured with a victory over the next opponent, Isidore Newman School of New Orleans. There could not be a starker contrast between two schools.
 Newman is one of Louisiana's elite private schools, the alma mater of such privileged sons as Peyton and Eli Manning. The school sustained some wind damage from Katrina but reopened in January. Officials said enrollment is nearly back to pre-Katrina levels.
 At the newly formed South Plaquemines, classes began in mid-August, but the cafeteria has yet to open and the science lab still awaits test tubes and slides for its microscopes.
 The football team has no locker room or weight room. Until two weeks ago, it traveled 60 miles round-trip each day to practice on a borrowed field. Homecoming, as encouraging as it was, represented only ''the beginning of a new beginning'' in an uncertain recovery, a speaker said at a pregame ceremony to dedicate the new school. In some places in lower Plaquemines, it seems as if Katrina hit yesterday, not 14 months ago. And it is impossible to know what the future holds. For one thing, the federal government has decided not to immediately fortify the levees along Highway 23 to full strength. The cost would be $1.6 billion, and so few people have returned.
 Only 266 students are enrolled in grades 7 through 12 at the consolidated high school. Mona Boutwell, a preschool teacher at adjacent South Plaquemines Elementary, is unsure whether she will keep her son Dylan, a freshman receiver, here beyond this year.
 ''Besides football, what else is there here?'' she said plaintively, sitting in her FEMA trailer near the school. ''There is nothing normal about these kids' lives.''
 Yet football persists as a galvanizing force in these beleaguered communities. When Wayne Williamson Sr. saw the stadium lights being tested Wednesday night, he drove from a nearby trailer park with his son Wayne Jr., a receiver and defensive back.
 ''I just had to look,'' Williamson Sr. said. ''It meant we were getting closer to home.''
 On Friday, Marcelin Ancar wore his letter jacket to homecoming. He had been an all-state center at Port Sulphur High in 1984. Now his two sons, Jordan and Maverick, play for South Plaquemines. The original letter jacket was lost in the hurricane as the Ancars' home was shoved into a canal. A few months after Katrina, Jeanitta Ancar presented her husband with a replica jacket. It brought tears to his eyes.
 ''It was like seeing my kids born, that's how much it touched me,'' Marcelin Ancar said.
 The days before homecoming were called Spirit Week at South Plaquemines High. Students wore cowboy outfits one day, camouflage the next, and the school colors of blue and silver the day of the game. The journalism class printed a thick game program filled with photographs of players and homecoming maids and well-wishes from their families.
 Gaudet, the principal, took care of other necessities, like two cases of insect repellent.
 ''To fight West Nile virus,'' he said, holding up a can in his office Thursday afternoon. Each spectator would be offered a spray as they entered the stadium, he said.
 ''You've got to be prepared in south Plaquemines,'' Gaudet said with a laugh.
 He took it upon himself to order sideline markers when the purchasing agent for the school district was called to serve on the jury of a murder trial. 
 Still, he was worried about a cheap first-down marker and was waiting on a louvered replacement due to arrive by courier a few hours before kickoff. ''I don't want one of those flimsy, flip-up markers,'' Gaudet said. ''I want a Dial-a-Down.''
 He had more urgent concerns, too, namely the stadium lights.
 The temporary buildings of South Plaquemines High are on the campus of the destroyed Port Sulphur High. A 28-foot storm surge and 120-mile-an-hour winds from Katrina swamped the football field, pushing water over the crossbars of the goal posts. The scoreboard was battered, the stadium lights left inoperable. Later, four inches of crushed stone were placed on the field, which served as a staging ground for the national guard.
 The turf was resodded in late August, but it took several weeks to take root. By Thursday, new goal posts and a new scoreboard were in place, but only the stadium lights on the visitor's side were working. On Friday morning, a teacher and a school-board employee spray-painted a hurricane logo at midfield.
 ''It's going to be a race to the finish,'' Gaudet said. ''Everything around here has been a race to the finish.'' 
 By Friday afternoon, on a cool, azure day, knots of people gathered along the highway for the parade. Others sat on lawn chairs or perched on the tailgates of pickup trucks. A few brought their barbecue grills. In the middle of the parade, lights flickered to life on the home side of the field. Wearing a tuxedo and a velvet crown, Dwayne Ancar, the homecoming king, rode past and tossed plastic footballs. He is the anchor of the team's offensive line, but this triumphant moment almost eluded him.
 Like many others, Ancar struggled after the storm. His family scattered ahead of Katrina, and one of his uncles died of cancer before he got to see him again. When the family found its way back to northern Plaquemines Parish,17 or 18 relatives crammed into one house, he said. Ancar's grades slipped and he seemed to lose his temper easily.
 ''I couldn't get comfortable,'' he said.
 He was not the only one. One of the team's starters was suspended for yelling at Coach Cyril Crutchfield during the season opener. Another starter was later suspended for hitting his girlfriend.
 ''There's a lot of pent-up anger in these kids that we don't know about,'' Gaudet said.
 Even football did not provide much relief at first. The Hurricanes were outmanned against much larger schools. Players bickered at each other on the sidelines. Ancar said he nearly quit.
 ''I didn't think the team cared about winning,'' he said. ''Everyone was selfish. Now we're joking with each other and everyone's friendly.''
 As his teammates warmed up for Friday's game, Ancar remained in his tuxedo for the naming of the homecoming queen. Then he hustled into his uniform. The crowd swelled to about 1,100, some of whom had tailgated for hours. At the last minute, the newly ordered first-down marker arrived on the sideline.
 ''Seniors, this is your last homecoming,'' Crutchfield told his players. ''I've been waiting for this for a long time. We're back home. Let's make it count.''
 The Hurricanes fumbled their first snap, but quickly began to dominate. By halftime, they led by 32-0 and spectators danced to throbbing music from the public-address system. 
 In the second half, the celebration became far more engaging than the game. Some of the homecoming maids joined the cheerleaders in the thick sand along the sideline. ''They're cheering in high heels!'' said Maverick Ancar, an eighth-grade receiver.
 Afterward, the players knelt at midfield. Patrick Sylve, a senior running back, said everything finally felt as it should feel. Then he yelled to his teammates, ''Pool party at the river, everybody invited.''
 Tired and satisfied, Crutchfield sat outside his office and watched as traffic inched from the parking lot.
 ''This is what people have been waiting for,'' he said. ''A year ago, there was nothing. People have been wanting to come home, looking for some place to go on Friday night.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dwayne Ancar, South Plaquemines's homecoming king, said anger and frustration nearly led him to quit the football team this season. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. D1)
Three schools combined to form South Plaquemines High, where only 266 students were enrolled in grades 7 through 12. Kevin Smith and his teammates have won four of eight games. A playoff berth is still possible.
 Hurricane Katrina's storm surge lifted the water level higher than the crossbar at what was then Port Sulphur High. (Photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); RIVERS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); WEATHER (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); MARDI GRAS (76%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (68%) Football; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Levees; Interscholastic Athletics

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: Jere Longman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



573 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Suspect Charged in Bronx Triple Murder

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE and KATE MEYER; Al Baker and Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A 38-year-old Bronx man was arrested last night and charged with bludgeoning three people to death, including his companion and her son, in the basement of the family's apartment building, the police said. A bloody dumbbell and metal pipe found at the scene are believed to be the murder weapons, they said.
 The three victims, who also included a 60-year-old man who was filling in as a superintendent, were found shortly before noon yesterday in the building where the couple and her son had lived, a few blocks south of Crotona Park. 
The police said they believed that the man, Rafin Vellon, had killed his companion, Gloria Valdez, 56, and her 36-year-old son, Carl Valdez, in their basement apartment, and that the other victim, Polonio Peralta, was attacked later in a basement hallway, perhaps after he encountered the killer on his way out.
 Mr. Vellon was charged with three counts of second-degree murder. As he was led out of the 41st Precinct station house last night, wearing a gray sweatshirt, he stared straight ahead and did not respond to reporters' questions.
 All three victims had been beaten severely on the head, investigators said. The Valdezes were found dead in their apartment, the police said, and Mr. Peralta was taken to St. Barnabas Hospital, where he later died. A number of bloodied objects were found at the scene, including the dumbbell and the metal pipe, and investigators believe that they were the weapons used, the police said. 
 Three weeks ago, investigators said, Mr. Vellon was accused of using a similar weapon in a violent rampage at a car service office. He was arrested on a charge of criminal mischief on Oct. 2, suspected of using a five-pound free weight to break windows around the car service, Mega-Radio Dispatch at 951 Westchester Avenue in the Bronx, the police said. He is accused of bashing in the front door of the office along with some car windshields in the area. He has also been charged with assault in a previous case, the police said.
 T. J. Trinidad, an employee of Mega-Radio, said last night in a telephone interview that he was at the office on Oct. 2 when a woman came in crying. ''She was out of breath and she was tearing a lot,'' he said. ''She asked for a cab quick, the quickest cab she could have.''
 About four or five hours after she left, an enraged man came into the office. ''The reason he was supposedly mad was because we supplied the cab service for his girlfriend to leave,'' Mr. Trinidad said. ''He broke the main entrance door, the window right next to the main entrance door, and the radio dispatcher glass -- the one in front of the computers.
 ''After that, he went outside and went on a wild rampage. He broke the windshields of about seven cars,'' he said. ''He had a butterfly knife and slashed the tires of every car of which windshield he bashed.''
 The car service office is a few blocks from the building where the killings took place, at 1029 Hall Place. The police said Mr. Peralta was found by a maintenance worker who had gone downstairs to get some tools. 
 Mr. Peralta had been filling in for the building's superintendent, Rafael Diaz, while he was in the Dominican Republic for the month, said Jose Romero, Mr. Peralta's grandnephew, who lives in the neighborhood. Mr. Peralta was a retired construction worker living in Philadelphia who came up to help out. ''He didn't even work here,'' Mr. Romero said. ''He was just doing someone a favor.'' 
 The Valdezes were discovered later by investigators when they arrived at the building, and found that it had been carved up into a mazelike warren of single-room apartments. The basement also was a storage area for tools and contained the superintendent's residence.
 Mr. Vellon and the Valdezes moved into the building last year, said Lydia Colon, a neighbor. They mainly kept to themselves, she said, being newcomers in a neighborhood where families had lived for multiple generations. 
 Neighbors remembered Mr. Valdez as being hungry for company. ''Every time he talked to someone, he would talk your ear off because he didn't have many friends. It was the same with his mother,'' said Ms. Colon, who said she was one of the few residents who talked to them regularly. The two were often seen walking their Chihuahua, Taco, around the block. 
 Ms. Colon said that she clearly felt the tension between Mr. Vellon and Ms. Valdez one day when the two women were talking. ''We were standing in front of the building one day and talking and all of a sudden a big guy came out of a cab,'' she said. ''He had a very solemn face, sort of serious and tough. Her whole tune changed. She seemed really nervous. She introduced him as her husband. He was scary. I didn't like to talk to him.''
 Neighbors said Ms. Valdez had a distinctive style. She often wore summer dresses on top of dresses, even in the winter, residents said. ''It was her fashion sense. It was a really strange fashion sense,'' said Ms. Colon.
 One of her favorite dress combinations was a combination of a stretchy black and purple striped dress layered with a red dress with orange butterflies, Ms. Colon said. Mr. Valdez was known for practicing martial arts near the building, and had earned the nicknames Ninja Boy and the Karate Kid. ''He would always be dressed up like some samurai carrying swords,'' said Luis Reyes, 29, a resident of the building. ''I feel sorry for the Karate Kid; that kid was gentle,'' Mr. Reyes said. ''He wasn't trying to hurt anybody.'' He was also a big fan of the movie ''Scarface,'' boxing and a cartoon called ''Naruto.''
 Ms. Valdez and her son were both unemployed, but scraped together a living from government disability checks and selling odds and ends, neighbors said. Ms. Colon said her last interaction with Mr. Valdez had been helping him sell ''Scarface'' collector sets. ''He said he had bought them for $25 and that he was trying to sell them for $20 and I said: 'No, no, honey. You have to sell them for more than you bought them for.' ''
 She also advised him, ''Shine them up so they look good.'' The sets eventually sold.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Detectives and an officer at the entrance to the basement area of the Bronx building where the three homicide victims were found yesterday about noon.
A detective displayed a photograph yesterday of Rafin Vellon, 38, a companion of one of the victims. He was later charged in connection with the bludgeoning deaths. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Police officials escorted Rafin Vellon from the 41st Precinct station house after he was charged with three counts of second-degree murder. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); VANDALISM (71%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%) Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Jennifer 8 Lee; Kate Meyer; Rafin Vellon; Gloria Valdez; Carl Valdez; Polonio Peralta

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



574 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 519 words

PERSON: John Victor Murra 

HEADLINE: John V. Murra, 90, Professor Who Recast Image of Incas

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
John V. Murra, a professor of anthropology who culled voluminous Spanish colonial archives for research that reshaped the image of the Incas and their vast South American empire, died on Oct. 16 at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 90. 
 The death was confirmed by Blaine Friedlander, a spokesman for Cornell University, where Professor Murra taught from 1968 until his retirement in 1982.
''Before he came along, the image of the Incas was one of barbaric splendor,'' said Frank Salomon, the John V. Murra professor of anthropology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. But Professor Murra's work ''forged a radically new image'' of that empire, Professor Salomon said -- one based on an intricate and often ceremonial exchange of produce as gifts among tribal kinfolk. They hiked from the edges of the rain forest to meet those living at the heights of the Andes, ensuring each other's survival by trading key lowland crops like maize and potatoes for scarce mountain goods like llama and alpaca wool. That economic system was named ''the vertical archipelago'' by Professor Murra.
 ''His 'vertical archipelago' model has been verified through research that archaeologists have since done in the Andean zone,'' said Heather Lechtman, a professor of archaeology and ancient technology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. While some experts debate aspects of the theory, Professor Lechtman said, ''This is certainly the accepted model for the central Andes.''
 The Inca empire existed from about 1400 to 1535 in an area that now includes Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and parts of Colombia, Argentina and Chile. What largely held it together, until the Spanish invasion in 1532, was its unusual economic system. The social system was documented by Professor Murra with his search through colonial archives and court documents in which the words of Incas were recorded.
 Born Isak Lipschitz on Aug. 24, 1916, in Odessa, Ukraine, John Victor Murra changed his name after emigrating to the United States in 1934. Two years later, he joined the republican forces fighting in the Spanish Civil War against the dictatorship of Gen. Francisco Franco. By then, he had completed undergraduate studies begun in Europe, earning a degree in sociology at the University of Chicago. He later turned to anthropology, receiving a master's in 1942 and a Ph.D. in 1956, both also at the University of Chicago.
 Professor Murra taught at the University of Puerto Rico from 1947 to 1950; at Vassar from 1950 to 1961; at Yale from 1962 to 1963; at Universidad de San Marcos in Lima, Peru, from 1964 to 1966, and then at Cornell. Twice married and divorced, he left no immediate surviving family members.
 It was Professor Murra's participation in the Spanish Civil War that forced him into his archival research. ''The U.S. State Department in the McCarthy years denied him a passport,'' Professor Salomon said. ''So, frustrated in the first thing an anthropologist does -- field work -- he dived into the chronicles of the Spanish Viceroyalty of Peru to examine the Inca past.'' Professor Murra was finally granted a passport in 1956.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Oct. 23 about John V. Murra, an anthropologist who was an expert in the economy of the Incas, incorrectly described the position of the republican forces in the Spanish Civil War, which Mr. Murra joined in 1936. At the time, they were supporting the legitimate government of Spain against Gen. Francisco Franco. They were not rebelling against his dictatorship, which was not established until after the republicans were defeated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HISTORY (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); MOUNTAINS (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); NATURAL FIBERS (67%); CIVIL WAR (65%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (52%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ANDES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) PERU (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



575 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: War in Sudan? Not Where the Oil Wealth Flows

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
To understand Sudan's defiance toward the world, especially the Western world, check out the Ozone Cafe.
 Here young, rich Sudanese, wearing ripped jeans and fancy gym shoes, sit outside licking scoops of ice cream as an outdoor air-conditioning system sprays a cooling veil of mist. Around the corner is a new BMW dealership unloading $165,000 cars.
''I tell people you only live this life once,'' said Nada Gerais, a saleswoman.
 While one of the world's worst humanitarian crises continues some 600 miles away in Darfur, across Khartoum bridges are being built, office towers are popping up, supermarkets are opening and flatbed trucks hauling plasma TV's fight their way through thickening traffic. 
 Despite the image of Sudan as a land of cracked earth and starving people, the economy is booming, with little help from the West. Oil has turned it into one of the fastest growing economies in Africa -- if not the world -- emboldening the nation's already belligerent government and giving it the wherewithal to resist Western demands to end the conflict in Darfur.
 American sanctions have kept many companies from Europe and the United States out of Sudan, but firms from China, Malaysia, India, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates are racing in. Direct foreign investment has shot up to $2.3 billion this year, from $128 million in 2000, all while the American government has tried to tighten the screws.
 ''Khartoum is hot -- in all ways,'' said Hashim Wahir, chairman of Petronas Sudan, a branch of the Malaysian national oil company.
 It was 115 degrees outside, but Mr. Wahir was also talking about business.
 As long as Asian countries are eager to trade with Sudan, despite its human rights record, the American embargo seems to have minimal effect. The country's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, keeps demonstrating his disdain for the West by refusing to allow United Nations peacekeepers into Darfur, despite continued bloodshed and pressure from the United States to let the peacekeepers in. 
 ''The government knows it doesn't need America,'' said Abda Yahia el-Mahdi, a former finance minister, now in private consulting. ''The only people who are being hurt by the sanctions are the Americans, who are missing out on this huge boom.''
 The wealth is hardly evenly shared, and much of Sudan, like Darfur, remains desperately poor. Indeed, the nation's per capita income was only $640 in 2005, at market exchange rates, according to the World Bank. 
 But the country's G.D.P. grew 8 percent in 2005, according to the International Monetary Fund, and is predicted to increase by 12 percent this year. Cotton and other agricultural products have traditionally been the engines of the economy here, but the new growth comes largely because Sudan has substantially increased its crude oil production to 512,000 barrels a day -- a drop compared with Saudi Arabia's or Iran's, but enough to bring billions of dollars to a country that until recently was one of the poorest on earth.
 ''Oil and real estate investment, primarily in urban areas, is really what's driving the economy,'' said Michael Kevane, an associate professor of economics at Santa Clara University. ''There's no doubt about that.'' 
 The boom is also strengthening the government's hand at home. Over the past few years, Mr. Bashir has been on an infrastructure binge, pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into roads, bridges, power plants, hospitals and schools, projects that tend to boost any government's popularity. Mr. Bashir seems to desperately need it, with many people across the country, not just in Darfur, openly rebelling against his rule.
 Mr. Bashir, an army general, seized power in 1989 through a military coup, and among the biggest beneficiaries of these boom times have been his troops. Ms. Mahdi said more than 70 percent of the government's share of oil profits is spent on defense. A government priority is to manufacture guns and ammunition domestically, in case external supplies are cut off.
 Despite all the new materialism, Sudan still marches to a martial tune. Army officers enjoy special status, foreign visitors must register with the police and schoolchildren are required to wear camouflage uniforms to class. But the boom is changing much about society, from the careers people pursue, to the music they listen to, even what they eat.
 The traditional meal of ful, a bean stew eaten for breakfast and lunch, is giving way to kebabs, yogurt, hamburgers and hot dogs.
 ''We even have Pringles,'' said Mohammed Abdelwahab Salih, a 26-year-old entrepreneur who recently started a business in Khartoum designing Web sites.
 Mr. Salih remembers the days, not so long ago, when he used to have to wait in line for hours for a single loaf of bread.
 ''And it wasn't even good bread,'' he said. ''When we got home, we had to pick out the flies.''
 For years, the Sudanese economy was a disaster, with triple-digit inflation, moribund industries and war. Ever since Sudan's independence in 1956, Christian and animist tribes in the south have rebelled against Muslim rulers in the north.
 Oil had been discovered here by Chevron in the 1970's, but the oil fields straddled the north-south divide and were essentially unworkable while the fighting was going on.
 The American government imposed a trade embargo in 1997, freezing Sudanese government assets in the United States and cutting off its exports to and imports from Sudan, with a few exceptions. The reason: human rights abuses connected to the north-south war and Sudan's links to terrorists. Osama bin Laden lived in Khartoum in the 1990's.
 But by 1999, when the first trickle of oil began to flow out of Port Sudan, on the Red Sea, Sudan's economy was turning around. A small cadre of Western-educated technocrats had followed the I.M.F.'s reform programs to the letter -- cutting spending, privatizing state-owned businesses, lowering inflation and pushing infrastructure.
 ''It was classic, conservative economic policies,'' said Safwat Fanous, chairman of the political science department at the University of Khartoum. ''And it worked.''
 Even World Bank economists have been impressed.
 ''These are very good people managing the economy and would rate among the best anywhere in Africa,'' said Asif Faiz, country manager for the World Bank in Sudan.
 But, he added, they need to do more to spread the wealth to rural areas and focus on the poor.
 Sudanese living abroad began to drift back, drawn by new opportunities -- and other realities.
 ''If you want to open a bank account in America these days, it's not difficult, it's impossible,'' said Ahmed Amin Abdellatif, a 33-year-old Cambridge-educated businessman who drives a Porsche SUV through the dusty streets of Khartoum and runs an empire of electronics shops. He argued that antiterrorism laws in the West had made it very difficult for him as a Sudanese citizen to do business. ''Why go through the headache?'' he added. ''Why not put your money somewhere where it's welcome?''
 In 2002, Sudanese investors opened a new Coca-Cola factory, with Coke syrup legally exported to Sudan under an exemption for food and medicine. The $140-million plant churns out 100,000 bottles of Coke, Sprite and Fanta per hour, and factory owners have even adopted liberal employment policies, giving jobs to deaf women along the assembly line. 
 All this new investment is literally redrawing Khartoum's skyline. Four years ago, the Libyan government began building a 24-story, five-star hotel on the banks of the Nile. The hotel is nearly finished and boasts a level of luxury unknown in Sudan until now -- it has an indoor pool, squash courts, an espresso bar and spa. 
 In 2004, the first proper mall arrived in Khartoum, brought by a Turkish company, complete with a Wal-Mart-size megastore called the Hypermarket. It is place where men in white robes and women covered in black head to toe pluck toilet paper, dates and Pepsi from the shelves as Sudanese elevator music plays in the background.
 In 2005, many people here hoped the American sanctions would be lifted and the economy would hit warp speed after Sudan's leaders, coaxed by American mediators, made peace with southern rebels. But by that point the conflict in Darfur was raging, and relations with the United States only turned frostier.
 ''We felt like the Americans betrayed us,'' said the Sudanese foreign minister, Lam Akol.
 Still, Sudan had already learned to rely on the East, and because of oil exports, the economy had gained a stable momentum of its own. Inflation is now 6 percent; investment and development are reaching beyond downtown Khartoum to Sudan's central agricultural belt and to Juba, the main city in the south.
 But Sudan is a huge country, Africa's largest, at nearly a million square miles. Enormous swaths of territory are still neglected, and growing class differences could sow the seeds of further unrest. Rebel groups in Darfur and other areas, eager for their share of oil profits and power, pose another problem.
 Business leaders say the biggest danger would be if the United States succeeded in persuading Sudan's Asian and Middle Eastern trading partners to join the boycott.
 ''The Americans are not a threat, but if the international community lines up against us, ahh, that is a different issue,'' said Osama Daoud Abdellatif, chairman of the DAL Group, a conglomerate that owns the Coke factory, the Ozone Cafe and a number of other businesses. ''Everything has been going so well, but Darfur could spoil the party.''

U.N. Sudan Envoy Packing
 KHARTOUM, Sudan, Oct. 23 (Reuters) -- The United Nations envoy to Sudan, Jan Pronk, prepared to leave Khartoum on Monday after the government had ordered him to leave.
 Sudan has been at odds with the United Nations over its rejection of a plan to send 22,500 United Nations troops to the region of Darfur. Mr. Pronk has directed the organization's mission here for two years.

 SOUTH AFRICA
CONGO REP.
MADAGASCAR
AFRICAN REP.
CAMEROON
CHAD
SUDAN
NIGERIA
SENEGAL
GAMBIA
GUINEA
SIERRA LEONE
LIBERIA
GABON
EQUATORIAL
GUINEA
SAO TOME & PRINCIPE
GHANA
TOGO
BENIN
IVORY COAST
BURKINA FASO
GUINEA BISSAU

(Source by International Monetary Fund)(pg. A6)

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sign of prosperity: Khartoum residents shop to piped-in Sudanese elevator music at the Hypermarket, a superstore in the city's first real mall. (Photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
 As one of the world's worst atrocities unfolds in Darfur, some 600 miles to the west, young women enjoy the good life at the Ozone Cafe in Khartoum, Sudan's capital, including ice cream and outdoor air-conditioning. (Photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart/Map: ''Africa's Economic Lions''Map of Africa highlighting the following annual change in real G.D.P. (estimated for 2006) for the following countries:EGYPTLIBYAALGERIANIGERWESTERNSAHARAMOROCCOMAURITANIATUNISIAMALIETHIOPIAERITREADJIBOUTISOMALIASWAZILANDMOZAMBIQUETANZANIAZAMBIALESOTHOKENYAUGANDACONGORWANDABURUNDIANGOLANAMIBIABOTSWANAZIMBABWE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR CRIMES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (74%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); STARVATION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); GENOCIDE (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (57%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (54%); AGRICULTURE (50%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Foreign Investments; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Freedom and Human Rights

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: Jeffrey Gettleman; Omar Hassan Al- (Pres) Bashir

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (94%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MALAYSIA (93%); AFRICA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%) Sudan; Darfur (Sudan); Khartoum (Sudan); China; Malaysia; India; Sudan; Kuwait; United Arab Emirates; Sudan

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



576 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: Offering Perks, Lenders Court Colleges' Favor

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
One student loan company has invited college and university officials, and their spouses, to attend an education conference -- in the Caribbean this February, all expenses paid. Another pays universities bonuses based on how much their students borrow. Others gave away gifts like iPods at a recent conference for financial aid administrators. 
 With rising tuition and lagging government aid making private student loans a big and increasingly competitive business, these are some of the ways lenders are courting universities in hopes that they will steer students their way.
Students took out nearly $13.8 billion in private loans in 2004-5, more than 10 times the amount borrowed a decade ago, according to the College Board. 
 The key to this business is university financial aid offices, which compile lists of ''preferred'' lenders, sometimes as few as two. Students rarely comparison shop and rely on those lists. 
 Financial aid administrators say they pick lenders with the most competitive terms, not the most appealing giveaways. But some have questioned such arrangements -- and whether students are getting the best deals.
 ''I don't think you have to be a bona fide ethicist to recognize the potential for a conflict of interest,'' said L. Katharine Harrington, the dean of admissions and financial aid at the University of Southern California, which she said had no financial ties to lenders. 
 ''I'm not in the business of generating outside-fee revenue'' for the university, Ms. Harrington said. ''Nor am I in the business of recommending a particular lender because of what they do for me. Rather, it's because of what they do for the student.''
 It is hard to determine how widespread these incentives are. Some of the practices were publicized this summer in newspaper advertisements by MyRichUncle, a relative newcomer to student lending trying to increase its business, that drew criticism from some universities.
 Neither universities nor lenders disclose the arrangements, and several loan companies declined in interviews to identify which colleges had them. Congress made it illegal in 1986 for lenders to use inducements to get applicants for federally backed student loans, but the law does not apply to private loans. 
 Institutions that say they receive payments from lenders include Boston University and Monmouth University in New Jersey. New York University, Fordham University in the Bronx and Purdue University in Indiana have different arrangements in which a lender sets aside a sum for loans to international students and those with poor credit, determined partly by how much other students at the institution borrow.
 It is also hard to assess statements by officials that they recommend only those lenders with the most competitive rates, because only one official, out of more than a dozen interviewed, would disclose the average loan rate that students pay. Some said that they did not even track the interest rates students ended up paying. 
 Companies go to great lengths to build relationships with university officials. Take the invitation to a Four Seasons resort in the Caribbean. The February 2007 event, an ''Education Summit'' planned for a long weekend, is sponsored by EduCap Inc., a nonprofit financial services company that has done billions of dollars' worth of student loan business. This year's ''special invitation'' offers a chance ''to participate in the 2007 Loan to Learn Summit (with your spouse or guest) as an all-expense-paid complimentary guest of EduCap.'' 
 George Pappas, a senior vice president of EduCap, said that the company sponsored a similar weekend last year and that fewer than 100 people attended. Mr. Pappas declined to identify university attendees. He said EduCap paid expenses because ''it would be difficult for them to come if we didn't,'' and it paid for spouses, he said, because ''we're asking people to leave their families over the weekend.''
 He said that the purpose of the summit was to remind ''everybody of what the real goal of education is'' and that student loans were not discussed. 
 A student group has filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission saying that the EduCap Loan to Learn program used deceptive marketing to discourage students from applying for federal grants and loans. EduCap calls the accusations ''false and contrary to EduCap's philosophy and business practices of 20 years.'' 
 Other lenders offer cash payments directly to universities.
 Education Finance Partners of San Francisco pays several universities such a bonus. The more students borrow, the more money the institution gets. The company declined to say how many such arrangements it had. 
 At Monmouth, which has taken such payments for about two years, last year's payment was less than $2,000, said Claire M. Alasio, associate vice president for enrollment management. ''Clearly that's not enough money to influence decision-making,'' Ms. Alasio said. She added that the university did not track the interest rates students paid.
 Christine W. McGuire, the director of financial assistance at Boston University, which only recently entered such an arrangement with Education Finance Partners, also said payments were ''not enough to make a difference,'' although she declined to say how much they were. Ms. McGuire said officials reviewed loan rates each year when assembling the preferred lender list. 
 ''We're very aggressive advocates for our students to get the best rates,'' said Ms. McGuire, who has another connection to Education Finance; she says she is a member of an informal, unpaid advisory board. ''It's essentially a mechanism for giving feedback,'' she said.
 Financial aid officers who serve as advisers get paid trips to meetings. Ronald W. Johnson, the director of financial aid at the University of California, Los Angeles, said, ''I do not see it as a problem because of the fact that what we are speaking about are those things that would be benefits for all students.'' 
 ''These are very work-intensive meetings, and they aren't junkets,'' added Mr. Johnson, who said he sat on the advisory boards of Education Finance Partners, Nellie Mae, Sallie Mae and Wells Fargo. Nellie Mae and Wells Fargo, he said, are on the university's preferred lender list.
 At a conference of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators in Seattle this summer, three banks gave a cocktail party in the Space Needle for the officials. Lenders also raffled off gifts, including a portable DVD player and Apple iPods. University officials generally called the prizes too small to influence them. 
 Karen Morozink, an associate director of financial aid at Wheaton College in Illinois, won an iPod from Campus Door, which is not one of the college's preferred lenders. Ms. Morozink said that her college had a ban on gifts worth more than $100 but that her supervisor knew she had received the iPod and did not object.
 ''It wasn't a gift directly to me,'' she said. ''It was a raffle.'' 
 She said lenders had used the raffle, conducted by business card, to attract officials to their booths. ''By getting your business card, it gives them an opportunity to follow up,'' she said. Representatives for Campus Door declined to comment.
 In its advertising campaign, MyRichUncle said: ''You should know the truth about financial aid offices. They're supposed to help you choose the best lenders, but in reality, they may steer you towards lenders that benefit them, not you.'' It referred to the arrangements as ''kickbacks.''
 Many university officials called the advertisements unfair and insulting. But the uproar caused at least one, Fordham, to change its behavior. 
 For a year, Fordham had received payments from Education Finance Partners that went into a scholarship fund, said Angela Van Dekker, an assistant vice president for student financial services at the university. Ms. Van Dekker said the amounts were ''minimal,'' adding up to just under $14,000. Still, she decided not to accept further payments.
 ''I said, if it was going to be perceived as doing something wrong, then I better not do this,'' she said, ''although I do believe we should accept the revenue because it is helping students, and it is not the reason for the lender being on our list.''
 Ms. Van Dekker said Education Finance was on Fordham's preferred list because ''their top rate was the best.'' She said that well over half of student loan applicants at Fordham received its best rate, currently about 7.1 percent. This compares favorably with the lowest rates advertised by other companies.
 Tamera Briones, the chief executive of Education Finance, said payments to universities were ''just our way to give back to a community that we think does a lot of good.''
 Fordham and N.Y.U. have a different arrangement with Citibank, called an opportunity fund. The bank puts aside money for loans to students from overseas and those with poor credit. The lender's contribution turns, in part, on the volume of overall student borrowing. 
 Financial aid officers who have such arrangements say that even if these influence an institution to pick a particular lender, there is no harm done if the loan terms are favorable, because the incentive is to help other students afford college.
 Still, some students say they should be informed of such deals. Cary Hooper, 19, a sophomore at Fordham who has more than $13,000 in private loans, said he had relied on the university's recommendations, picking Citibank. When told of Fordham's arrangement with the bank, Mr. Hooper said, ''There should be some form of consent.''
 At N.Y.U., officials said that Citibank had already been selected as a preferred lender before the bank proposed the special loan pool and that the pool had been too small to matter.
 ''Citibank became our preferred lender through a competitive process which they won by giving the best rate to the largest number of students,'' said John Beckman, a university spokesman, who would not disclose the size of the fund.
 Michael J. Reardon, the president and chief executive of the Citibank Student Loan Corporation, declined to answer questions about relationships with specific schools.
 Purdue's opportunity fund is from Sallie Mae, its preferred lender. Sallie Mae, the biggest student lender, was selected for the terms of its loans, said Joyce Hall, executive director of the university's financial aid division. 
 A spokesman for Sallie Mae, Tom Joyce, said the volume of student borrowing was only one factor in determining how much money was offered in any such arrangement.
 ''The school is not being asked in any way, shape or form to steer a percentage of loan volume,'' Mr. Joyce said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: L. Katharine Harrington of the University of Southern California sees a ''potential for a conflict of interest'' in the way some lenders approach universities. In advertisements, MyRichUncle, a lender co-founded by Raza Khan, right, criticized competitors' practices. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ETHICS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%) Colleges and Universities; Credit; Ethics; Tuition; Teachers and School Employees; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (82%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (56%)

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



577 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; NEW DIRECTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2583 words

HEADLINE: Taking The Money

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND; Fred Bierman contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
THEY were all on different career paths, but they had one thing in common. In midlife, well before they were ready to retire, they decided to take buyout packages. 
 Phil Bonfanti, a regional sales manager for Ford, took it for his family's sake. Bobbie Battista, a CNN anchor, did not like the direction the company was going in. For Doug Vance, a Delta pilot, it was the least damaging choice in a situation he could not control. Enrique Rosselli, who took three buyouts in four years, saw the third as a sign to find a new line of business. And for Betsy Werley, it was an early push into a career move that she wanted to make later if not sooner.
At an age when many professionals are enjoying the benefits of seniority, these five are restarting their careers, inventing a work stage that has few maps but many travelers -- life after the buyout. Their experiences have been as varied as their reasons for taking this path. 
 Early retirement packages, as they are euphemistically known, have become a fact of life in the American workplace. When the Ford Motor Company announced last month that it was offering packages of up to $140,000 each to 75,000 employees, the news followed a General Motors Corporation buyout offer that led 35,000 workers to leave the company. 
 At a career stage that is already filled with practical and philosophical quandaries, the offer of a buyout forces the issues: Will I have enough money to retire? Am I happy where I am? Was I too hesitant in pursuing my dreams or too heedless? If I don't take this offer now, will it be available again? 
 The answers to these questions are as different as the packages and the workers to whom they are offered. A buyout offer intertwines intangible concerns like happiness, satisfaction and risk tolerance along with more concrete economic calculations like life expectancy, the job market, medical needs, the future of the company, the future of the industry and the dollar value of retiree medical benefits. 
 And, in deciding to take it, even sophisticated executives commonly mistake their best interests, said Dallas Salisbury, the president of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonprofit educational group in Washington. Given the choice, he said, many take lump-sum payouts when they should take annuities or continued medical benefits or vice versa. 
 ''We see people take a payment of $25,000 in lieu of retirement medical benefits,'' he said. ''But for a couple who are 60, retirement benefits have a present value of about $500,000, so taking $25,000 is not a good decision.'' 
 A buyout offer comes with a commandment to figure out, right now, what you really want to do with your life. It is that rumor in the workplace, that chat with your supervisor, that summons to the human-resources department that reverses the basic equation of employment: instead of telling you how much your services are worth to your employer, this is about how much the employer will pay you to leave. 

THE NETWORKER
 From her new office in Manhattan, Betsy Werley cited one change since the buyout. ''I get my hair cut in a place that costs a lot less,'' she said. ''Before, I paid $135. Now I pay $55.'' After earning a salary ''in the solid six figures'' as a banking executive, Ms. Werley, 51, now earns $70,000 as executive director (and first full-time employee) of a nonprofit organization for women over 50. One surprise, she said, has been how many of her former colleagues tell her, ''That's what I want to do.''
 Ms. Werley spent 18 years at what is now J.P. Morgan Chase & Company, first as a corporate lawyer, then moving from project to project on the business side. But as she neared her 50th birthday last year, she began to think less about her next move within the company and more about what she really wanted to do. Among the people she talked with were the founders of the Transition Network, a group for women in circumstances much like her own.
 ''I always thought about a job in the nonprofit world,'' she said. ''Even when I was at J.P. Morgan Chase, I was involved in networking projects for women.'' When the company offered her a package of a year's salary plus a year's benefits, she thought it was an opportunity that would not last. ''There were always rumors that they were going to cut severance offers dramatically,'' she said. ''Also I was turning 50, and I figured that if I wanted to start something new, I should do it now.''
 As the first executive director of the Transition Network, where she had to set up a medical benefits program herself, she met other women who had left careers that had been large parts of their identities. ''They're looking for people to talk to,'' Ms. Werley said. ''They feel productive and want to be engaged.'' Some are women she knew professionally. ''Topic A is, 'Who are you still in touch with?' '' she said. ''Topic B is, 'How's the stock price doing?' '' 
 Though she works 50 to 60 hours a week, just as she did in banking, she said that she found the work more rewarding, so the hours were less important. ''One of my gurus in the nonprofit world said, 'All the truly interesting jobs pay under $75,000,' '' she said. ''Here, I feel I'm doing it for myself as a woman over 50.''
 Though her husband has been retired for a decade, Ms. Werley said she was not sure if she ever wanted to stop working. ''Right now I'm in a field called aging, and it's just getting bigger,'' she said. ''Am I looking for the next executive director position at some point? Maybe. I see this as another 15- to 20-year phase in my career.'' 

THE ACCIDENTAL ENTREPRENEUR
 When Doug Vance reported for work for the first time as a pilot at Delta Air Lines in 1987, the greeting to the entering class was, ''Welcome to the last job you'll ever have.'' It was the job he had dreamed of since he was a boy in Paducah, Ky., riding his bicycle to the airport to watch the pilots. 
 As a Delta pilot he could see the future in front of him. He would work until the mandatory retirement age of 60, earning his highest salary in his last decade, and retire with an industry-standard pension of around $120,000 a year, with time and money to sail -- a hobby -- whenever he wished.
 Alas, it did not work out that way. At 52, Mr. Vance owns a start-up office supplies franchise in Grapevine, Tex., and his pension, which was a fraction of what he had once expected, ran out shortly after he left the company in April 2005, at age 50. ''I readjusted expectations, adjusted to hopefully doing better than the worst-case scenario,'' he said. ''My wife has a good job as an administrator for the school district.'' He hopes to pay himself a salary at the franchise soon. 
 For Mr. Vance, the end of the Delta dream was less a juicy incentive than a chance to grab something before it was gone. As the airline industry struggled in recent years, he watched his employer cut salaries and benefits for active pilots and move toward default on its pension program for retired pilots. United Airlines and US Airways both stopped contributing to their pension plans, throwing the plans to a federal government safety net, which was meant to insure the pensions of average workers who retire at age 65, not the higher pensions around which pilots plan their lives. The government program has an annual cap of around $45,000 and penalties for early retirement, which pilots are required to take by law. 
 He made his decision, he said, based on the logic that ''50 percent of something is better than 100 percent of nothing.''
 The money loss, he said, was only part of the adjustment. 
 ''I miss the old days at Delta, but those old days are gone,'' Mr. Vance said. ''I have friends that still do it that remind me what it is like now. The whole industry has changed. I miss the camaraderie, the prestige of going to an airport, the glamour of flying. You have people carrying on their luggage in trash bags now. Airports are more like bus stations now, places your parents told you to stay away from.''
 In his new field, Mr. Vance is not alone. A 2004 study by AARP and the RAND Corporation found that one in six workers over 50, or 5.6 million, is self-employed, with many starting their own businesses after more traditional professional careers. Some are pulled by the opportunity; others, like Mr. Vance, are pushed by the labor market. 
 Though he is optimistic about opening a second franchise and ultimately selling out in his 60's, many older workers start their own businesses with unrealistic expectations or shaky knowledge of the market, said Mr. Salisbury of the Employee Benefit Research Institute. 
 ''There's a phenomenon called the 'wealth illusion' when people get a lump sum in a buyout,'' he added. ''Have they really assessed, 'Can I do my own business?' If they're going to open a franchise, is there really a need? You end up in a posture where the actual economic status of most people is way, way off what you would assume from all that retirement advertising.''
 For Mr. Vance, the risks of starting a business seemed lower than the near-certain disaster of staying at Delta. For now, as he tries to expand his franchise, he is also flying for a company that provides jets to executive travelers. It is not the life he envisioned when he joined Delta, nor is it the one he feared when the company started to shake. 
 He is not able to save much for retirement, he said. But after living for so many years in the air, ''I'm finally able to get involved in things like the chamber of commerce, and I got to know my neighbors, so in that sense it's been pretty nice. I grew up on a farm in Kentucky, so I'm no stranger to hard work.''

THE OTHER SIDE OF THE TABLE
 Bobbie Battista also believed in the company where she enjoyed her professional success, but when the corporate culture changed, she used her severance offer to create her own culture. Ms. Battista, 54, was one of the original anchors on CNN Headline News when the company started in 1981, and expected to remain at CNN until she reached 55 or 60. But after the network merged with America Online, she was offered a voluntary buyout package in 2001 of 23 months' salary and benefits, one month for each year with the company. 
 ''For me it was a no-brainer,'' she said. She did not share the goals of her new managers, and felt the offer would not be available for too long. At 50, with an offer to renew her contract for three years, she decided to take the buyout and start her own public-relations company with her husband and other former CNN colleagues. ''What surprised me is how easily they let me walk out the door,'' she said. ''But it's a new era at CNN. Anybody who was part of the old era was dispensable.''
 Ms. Battista said she had long been interested in starting her own company, but expected it to come later. Now she advises companies that CNN used to cover about how to navigate the media landscape. 
 Since starting the business, Atamira Communications, in early 2002 in Atlanta, the toughest part of the transition has been the change of pace, she said. ''In the newsroom, it can be like a crisis 24/7. It was a bit of a transition moving into an office. It's quieter. I had to put a TV in the office.''
 After four and a half years, she said, she is making about half her salary at CNN, which was ''well into the six figures but not near a million.'' But she expects to surpass her old income someday. 
 After the start-up days at CNN, she is not daunted by the risks of starting again on her own. 
 ''When I went to work for Ted Turner, I had no idea what I was getting into,'' she said. ''I've always been O.K. going off the deep end, venturing into territory that is not familiar and making it work.'' 
 The television in her office, she added, is tuned to CNN. Some affinities die hard.

THE LOYALIST
 Phil Bonfanti was a regional sales manager at Ford, living in Castle Rock, Colo., when the call came: the company wanted him to shore up its operations in Chicago. For Mr. Bonfanti, who has daughters now ages 12 and 15, the timing was not good. His girls needed to stay where they were in school, he thought. And the market for houses in Colorado was soft. After moving alone to a one-bedroom apartment in Chicago for a year -- with Ford's business slumping -- he decided it was time to put his family ahead of the company. 
 ''I was with the company longer than I'd been with my wife,'' he said. ''I was married to the company. I bled Ford blue for 25 years, traveled four nights a week, and gave the company 50, 70, 80 hours per week. But I got the priorities in place for the first time, with my wife and kids first.''
 Mr. Bonfanti, 50, declined to discuss the terms of his severance package (''That's between me and Ford,'' he said), which was based on his years of service, but said he was familiar with the formula: as a supervisor, he had administered buyouts for other Ford workers. 
 But instead of severing his relationship with the company, he became a general manager for a local dealer, working even more hours than before but avoiding a move from Colorado. He left his old position on a Friday at 5 p.m. and started at the new one on Monday at 7 a.m. 
 ''I always said, I'll only have one wife, I'll only have one job,'' he said. ''I had no plans of ever leaving. I was part of a family at Ford. We're trying to instill that in the dealership, but on a lot smaller scale.''
 He said he had no plans to retire. The money from his severance went into his savings account, and he has not changed his life, which still revolves around automobiles. ''In the car business, you either love it or you shouldn't be in it,'' he said. ''For most people, your biggest challenge is being able to turn it off.'' 

THE SERIAL BUYOUT
 For Enrique Rosselli, the third time was the charm. Mr. Rosselli, 52, made his living in international distribution and supply for large corporations like Coca-Cola and DuPont. Between 2001 and 2004, he was caught up in three corporate reorganization plans, each time offered the choice of a new assignment or a buyout. By the time he left DuPont in 2004, at age 50, he had accrued payouts equivalent to more than three and a half years' salary. 
 He took the third departure as a message. There was another job prospect on the horizon, perhaps in Barcelona or Paris, he said. ''My wife said, 'Lets go.' But at that point, it was reflection time. There are guys that don't know it's time to let go. You're working incredible hours, you define yourself socially by where you are in the corporation. I decided, maybe I need to try something different.''
 Instead of returning to the international corporate world, Mr. Rosselli used the money from his severance packages to take over a printing franchise in Las Vegas. 
 He said he was earning as much money as he had in the corporate world, and had involved himself in the local arts and business communities as never before. And he works with his wife, Bonnie. ''She agreed to give me two years, and just signed up for one more,'' he said.
 He said it was unlikely that he would ever stop working. ''I think full-time retirement is an overrated proposition,'' he said. ''My wife is involved with the National Association of Women Business Owners, and I'm getting involved in the Latin Chamber of Commerce.'' 
 Las Vegas, he said, may not be Paris or Barcelona, but it has an appeal of its own. ''Vegas is a good destination, so I get to see my friends a lot. Because everybody wants to visit.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CHANGES -- Enrique Rosselli and his wife, Bonnie, above left, at their printing franchise in Las Vegas. Betsy Werley, above, switched from banking to a nonprofit. Doug Vance, far left, at his business in Grapevine, Tex. Phil Bonfanti, left, went from being a regional sales manager for Ford to general manager at a dealership. Bobbie Battista, below, misses the buzz of a newsroom. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. G8)
 ADAPTING -- Bobbie Battista, top, an ex-CNN anchor, started a public-relations company. Doug Vance, above, a former pilot for Delta, owns an office-supplies franchise. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (87%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Labor; Retirement; Special Sections; Life Styles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (67%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: John Leland; Fred Bierman

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



578 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Promotion Possibilities in the Tick of the Population Clock 

BYLINE: By PATRICIA WINTERS LAURO; Stuart Elliott contributed reporting.

 BODY:
IN an era of rancorous debates about overpopulation and immigration, only a few marketers are paying attention to a major promotional opportunity that occurred last week when, according to the Census Bureau, the population of the United States reached 300 million.
 The milestone ''has really energized the zero-population-growth people who don't want any more growth,'' said Peter Francese, the founder of American Demographics magazine who is now the demographic trends analyst for Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of the WPP Group. 
The 300 millionth American might have been an immigrant and not a newborn baby, a census spokesman, Stephen Buckner, said. 
 In 1967, when the population of the United States hit 200 million and immigration was not a hot-button issue, the milestone was celebrated in an elaborate public ceremony by President Lyndon B. Johnson.
 This time, some marketers do see potential in linking themselves to the arrival of the 300 millionth American. Johnson & Johnson and Gerber Products , two major advertisers of baby products, are sponsoring campaigns celebrating the 300 millionth American, using television commercials, print ads, online ads and in-store promotions. 
 Is it a risk or is it clever targeted marketing?
 ''We took the perspective that we were going to approach it in an honorary fashion, and that's what we've done,'' said Terry Boylan, a spokeswoman for Gerber in Parsippany, N.J.
 ''This is simply a part of the tradition we have of celebrating with consumers and being there for these kinds of milestones,'' she added.
 Gerber, which is owned by Novartis, began running print ads last month specifically aimed at mothers and expectant mothers; the theme is ''America is expecting.'' The company began national broadcast and cable television advertising in April that features landmarks across the nation like the Statue of Liberty and the Golden Gate Bridge, and reminds Americans to ''Start healthy. Stay healthy.'' The campaign was created by the New York office of the agency now known as Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Gerber has also developed a special Web site, www.gerber300.com, that offers a sweepstakes tied to the birth of the 300 millionth American and allows visitors to upload baby pictures for a huge baby ''quilt'' of American faces.
 ''We've already had 150,000 visits to that special Web page and it is increasing as we get closer to the date,'' Ms. Boylan said before the milestone was reached. 
 Johnson & Johnson has also been sponsoring a promotion online as well as a blog for mothers called ''MOMformation,'' which will serve as a source for mothers.
 The blog will not carry advertising and will carry only limited brand mentions of Johnson & Johnson, said Debra Bass, baby group product director in Skillman, N.J.
 Starting on Nov. 4, Johnson & Johnson will sponsor a promotion at 1,000 Wal-Mart stores. Ogilvy & Mather Promotion created the campaign.
 ''We really just wanted to celebrate this moment in history and let moms know that we'll continue to be there for them,'' Ms. Bass said.
 For Johnson & Johnson, Ms. Bass said, No. 300 Million presented the company with an opportunity to give mothers a portrait of mothering today compared with 40 years ago when the population reached 200 million.
 Johnson & Johnson conducted an online survey of 800 mothers from the 1960's and new mothers today and is using the results in a public relations campaign.
 Ms. Bass said it did not matter to her company who the 300 millionth American was, and Ms. Boylan at Gerber echoed that.
 But Mr. Francese advised that it was ''statistically unlikely'' he or she would in fact be an immigrant.
 The United States has far more births every day than immigrants entering the country, he said, and therefore it was more likely that the 300 millionth American was a newborn.
 The United States has been experiencing about four million births a year and immigration of about one million, including estimates for illegal immigrants, Mr. Francese said. 
 Even if an immigrant was the 300 millionth American, Mr. Francese said the promotions make good business sense because the United States is in the midst of a baby boom.
 The 4.12 million births in the country last year were about as many as occurred during the height of the baby boom, in 1957-58. 
 ''Four million births a year generates enormous economic activity and an explosion of spending on things like car seats, clothing, personal care items, toys,'' Mr. Francese said.
 And pizza? That is the hope of a national pizza chain, Papa John's, which wants to welcome the 300 millionth American with what it is cheekily calling ''a special delivery'' -- a free pizza each week for a year for the ''proud papa'' of the new arrival.
 ''We did assume'' the milestone would be achieved by a newborn rather than, say, an adult immigrant, said Chris Sternberg, a senior vice president at Papa John's Pizza in Louisville, Ky. ''If it's not a newborn, that's fine,'' he added. ''We would still honor that commitment.''
 Asked how Papa John's intended to identify the 300 millionth American when the Census Bureau and other officials did not do so, Mr. Sternberg said: ''You raise a good question. The government not identifying the person makes it a little complicated.'' 
 The company will consider claims submitted by consumers, he added, for instance, those who can prove their babies were born at the moment the Census Bureau estimated the 300 million figure was reached, which was 7:46 a.m. last Tuesday.
 For the other 299,999,999 Americans, Papa John's has another offer: anyone who buys a large cheese pizza at regular prices on the company's Web site (papajohns.com) through Oct. 31 will get up to five toppings free. 
 Mr. Francese said he thought that campaigns tied to the 300 millionth American were ''not a big risk at all.'' That is because new parents generally have a mind-set different from that of the general population, he said. ''They are by nature much more optimistic. They are looking to the future and they are dreaming every day of the bright futures their children are going to have.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Johnson & Johnson and Gerber ads about the population milestone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); CENSUS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (87%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (87%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); INFANTS MARKET (78%); MOTHERS MARKET (78%); TRENDS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); BABY PRODUCTS (75%); BABY FOODS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); SWEEPSTAKES (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%) Food; Advertising and Marketing; Baby Foods

COMPANY: OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (71%); WPP PLC (57%); AMERICAN DEMOGRAPHICS MAGAZINE (57%); NOVARTIS AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau; Johnson & Johnson Inc; Novartis Ag; Gerber Products Co

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (83%); JNJ (NYSE) (71%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (57%); WPP (LSE) (57%); NVS (NYSE) (55%); NOVN (SWX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Patricia Winters Lauro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



579 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Royal Dutch Shell Seeks to Buy the 22% of Shell Canada It Doesn't Own 

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN and HEATHER TIMMONS; Ian Austen reported from Ottawa and Heather Timmons from London.

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Oct. 23 

 BODY:
Royal Dutch Shell, seeking to streamline its businesses and increase reliance on unconventional sources of fuel, offered on Monday to buy the public shares of Shell Canada for 7.7 billion Canadian dollars ($6.8 billion).
 Shell hopes to buy the 22 percent of Shell Canada that it does not own for 40 Canadian dollars ($35.56) a share, a premium of 29 percent over Shell Canada's closing price Friday on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The deal is being examined by Shell Canada's board. Holders of 50 percent of the outstanding public shares would need to approve it.
Merrill Lynch analysts said that the ''premium paid appears rich,'' but that the deal would have little impact on the Shell group's overall financial results. Canada represents an ''important growth area'' for the company, the Merrill Lynch analysts said. 
 Shell Canada is one of the largest owners of oil sands fields in Canada. Transforming these tarry sands into usable petroleum products has become a booming business in recent years thanks to high oil prices, though many projects have been plagued with cost overruns, and environmentalists are critical of the energy-intensive process. 
 Shell's chief executive, Jeroen van der Veer, said the offer was ''all about the future.'' In a conference call with investors, he said that Shell was focusing on ''how you can use emerging technologies to build a very major business'' based on unconventional petroleum sources. 
 ''The unlocking of Canada's resources requires the industrial and financial skill of a company like Shell,'' Mr. van der Veer said. Canada's oil sands have become an attractive and nearby source to supply the United States' petroleum needs. 
 Shell, like most other oil giants, has reaped record profits in recent years on the back of high gas and oil prices. For many oil companies, one of the biggest challenges has been finding places to invest the money they are earning, without overpaying. 
 Competition is tough for shares in new oil fields, particularly in the developing countries where most new oil is being found. Local governments have fiercely guarded their oil assets as prices increased, and in some cases they are trying to dissolve existing field-sharing agreements. 
 Many oil companies have bought back shares and passed profits along to investors instead of making big acquisitions. 
 Shell's most significant oil sands holding is a 60 percent stake in the Athabaska Oil Sands Project. In addition to properties near Fort McMurray, Alberta, that project includes a plant in Edmonton, Alberta, that converts the tar from the sands into heavy oil.
 The project currently yields 155,000 barrels a day, although there are plans to increase that to 550,000 barrels over the next 15 years, an expansion that could cost more than $20 billion. The company acquired an additional 270,000 acres of land in 2005. 
 Extracting the tar from the sands is expensive compared with conventional drilling and enormous amounts of natural gas are burned to create steam to loosen the sand.
 As well, the current boom in oil sands development has led to substantial cost increases at many projects because of shortages of materials and labor. 
 The oil sands are also coming under increasing criticism from Canadian environmentalists. Not only does the extraction and processing of the sand generate gases that are believed to contribute to global warming, but the process also often involves strip mining and the spent steam is believed to be increasing the temperature of Arctic rivers, while creating oily waste. 
 More than other oil sands producers, Shell has been directly addressing the environmental concerns. It has an extensive television advertising campaign that emphasizes its controls and its plans to restore mining areas to a natural state.
 A Societe Generale analyst, Deborah White, predicted that oil has a long-term equilibrium price, or price where supply and demand are equal, of about $50 a barrel. Oil companies have estimated that producing oil from tarry sands can still make a profit when prices are $30 to $35 a barrel, but production costs have been more than expected. 
 ''Even with the cost overruns, they are economic at $45'' a barrel, Ms. White said. 
 The loss of Shell Canada's shares would be another blow for the Toronto Stock Exchange, which has recently had other major Canadian resource companies vanish from its boards because of foreign takeovers. Shell Canada is the exchange's 16th-most capitalized stock.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Boards of Directors

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (96%); SHELL CANADA LTD (90%); TMX GROUP LTD (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Dutch Shell; Shell Canada Ltd

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (96%); RDSA (AMS) (96%); RDS.B (NYSE) (96%); RDS.A (NYSE) (96%); X (TSX) (58%); TXQ (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (96%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JEROEN VAN DER VEER (59%) Ian Austen; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) ALBERTA, CANADA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



580 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS 

 BODY:

AT FORD, BAD GETS WORSE -- The Ford Motor Company reported its worst financial results in more than 14 years and warned that its business was likely to worsen in the months ahead. Its new chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said the automaker would require a full transformation in the way it thought about consumers and approached the American market. [Page A1.] 


HUMANE GROCERIES -- Whole Foods is preparing to roll out a line of meat products that will carry labels saying ''animal compassionate,'' indicating the animals were raised in a humane manner until they were slaughtered. [A1.]

GOOGLE OFFERS TAILORED SEARCH --Google unveiled a tool that allows Web sites and blogs to offer visitors a customized version of its search engine, narrowing down its vast index so the results are more relevant for the sites' users. [C3.]

INDICATORS LITTLE HELP TO G.O.P. -- Economic indicators are looking up, with gas prices tumbling, unemployment falling to its lowest level in more than five years, and the Dow Jones industrial index setting records almost daily. Yet Republican candidates do not seem to be getting any traction from them in the midterm elections just two weeks away. [C1.]

I.B.M. SUES AMAZON OVER PATENTS -- I.B.M. filed two lawsuits against Amazon.com, contending the big online retailer has built its business on technology developed by I.B.M. [C1.]

LENDERS COURT UNIVERSITIES -- With rising tuition and lagging government aid making private student loans a big and increasingly competitive business, lenders are courting universities with trips and gifts in hopes that they will steer students their way. [A1.]

COURT RULES AGAINST THE TIMES -- A federal magistrate judge ordered The New York Times to disclose the identities of three confidential sources used by one of its columnists, Nicholas Kristof, in writing about the investigation of the deadly anthrax mailings of 2001. [A21.]

AIDS AND LEPROSY LINKED -- With affordable AIDS drugs arriving in many poor countries, experts say a startling and worrisome side effect has emerged: in some patients, the treatment uncovers a hidden leprosy infection. [F1.]

CITY CRACKS DOWN ON PIRACY -- Seeking to crack down on the sometimes-violent world of video piracy, New York City is beginning an aggressive campaign to hold building owners liable for illegal distribution activities on their property and to make the recording of movies in theaters a crime. [B4.]

COKE BACKS CIVIL RIGHTS MUSEUM -- Coca-Cola said it would donate two and a half acres of prime land near Atlanta's downtown tourist district to a proposed civil rights museum that would hold, among other exhibits, the papers of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. [A17.]

POPULATION MARKETING -- In an era of rancorous debates about overpopulation and immigration, only a few marketers are paying attention to a major promotional opportunity that occurred last week when, according to the Census Bureau, the population of the United States reached 300 million. Advertising. [C3.]

OUTSIDER TO HEAD WRIGLEY -- The Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company named William D. Perez chief executive, the first time it has tapped someone outside its founding family in 115 years. The appointment puts Mr. Perez, left, in a position similar to his last one at Nike, where the founder promised to stay out of the way, then pushed him out after only 13 months. [C1.]

STOCKS CONTINUE RALLY -- Wall Street extended its rally as investors grew more confident about earnings reports and as a decline in oil bolstered hopes for consumer spending. [C11.]

AT&T PROFIT UP SHARPLY -- AT&T reported that its profit increased 74 percent in the third quarter, spurred by strong growth at Cingular Wireless and savings from the merger of the old AT&T and SBC Communications. [C11.]

RUSSIAN CELLPHONE INQUIRY -- In the latest chapter in the tale of 167,000 missing Motorola cellphones in Russia, Moscow prosecutors say they are investigating whether 30,000 that were supposedly destroyed were, in fact, sold at low prices in the Russianh provinces. [C11.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

XEROX said quarterly earnings rose to $536 million, aided by a tax refund and strong sales of color machines and supplies for commercial and office use. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

SAKS INC., owner of the Saks Fifth Avenue department stores, said its chief financial officer, Douglas Coltharp, and two other executives would resign next year as the company consolidates operations to New York City. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

THE UNITED STATES has requested that Namibia extradite the former chief executive of Comverse Technology, Jacob Alexander, who is accused of a scheme to pocket millions of dollars by secretly manipulating stock options, an American Embassy spokesman said. (AP)

MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS, a manager of employee prescription drug benefits, agreed to pay $155 million to settle allegations that it accepted kickbacks from drug makers and submitted false claims to the government. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

A FORMER printing-plant employee admitted leaking copies of the ''Inside Wall Street'' column from Business Week magazine as part of a guilty plea to insider trading charges yesterday in a case that the authorities have cited as a sprawling illegal stock-trading scheme. (AP)

THE HOUSING SLUMP was a heavy burden for the economy in the late summer, a top adviser to President Bush said. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Ford Motor's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); PATENTS (70%); TUITION FEES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); MAGISTRATES (69%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); AIDS & HIV (69%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); LEPROSY (66%); JUDGES (66%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (65%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); ANTHRAX (62%); WRITERS (62%); ANTIVIRALS (61%); EXECUTIVES (57%); MEATS (56%); OIL & GAS PRICES (53%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GOOGLE INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); COCA-COLA CO (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



581 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; BENEFITS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: If Company Goes Bankrupt, Don't Count on Your Pension 

BYLINE: By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
JUST about every week, flight attendants at Northwest Airlines, assembly-line workers at the Delphi Corporation and thousands of employees at other companies in bankruptcy can read headlines warning them that their companies might shut down their pension plans and drop the liabilities on the federal government's Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. They can also read about workers in similar straits whose pensions were abruptly cut by one-fourth or even half. Then they can read about how the government agency itself faces a financial shortfall.
 ''If I'm in a pension plan of a company that's in bankruptcy,'' said Kevin Wagner, a senior retirement consultant for Watson Wyatt Worldwide, ''I have some reason to be concerned.''
For most people, the risks are not as drastic as the headlines imply. But there are many complications that they probably are not expecting. 
 When a company is in such severe financial trouble that paying the pensions it owes could put it out of business, it can turn the responsibility over to the pension agency in a so-called distress termination. During the last 30 years, the pension-guarantee program has taken on nearly 3,600 such plans covering about 1.2 million people.
 The agency guarantees a basic benefit -- a maximum $47,659 for 2006 -- rising each year for inflation. That is more than double the median pension, $21,097, says Alan L. Gustman, a pension expert at Dartmouth College. 
 The catch is that the agency nibbles away at that guarantee with a long menu of exceptions. 
 ''The protection that is provided by this insurance guarantee is an amazing safety net,'' said Karen Ferguson, the director of the Pension Rights Center, a Washington advocacy group for employees. ''The downside is you can lose a big chunk of your benefit.'' 
 Employees may not be able to change the pension agency's rules, but experts like Mr. Wagner and Ms. Ferguson say that employees can protect themselves to some degree by knowing their rights, gathering data in advance and rethinking their retirement expectations. 

KNOW WHERE YOU STAND -- Even before a termination occurs, ''the first thing to do is try and figure out what would happen if the plan went to the P.B.G.C.,'' said Norman Stein, a professor and expert in benefits law at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa.
 The new federal Pension Protection Act will help because it requires more disclosure. For instance, starting in 2008 companies must report on the financial status of their plans within 120 days of the new plan year (usually Jan. 1). Benefits specialists point out that a plan with enough stocks, bonds and other assets to cover 80 percent or even 100 percent of its liabilities may not be as solid as it seems. Moreover, those asset-to-liability ratios usually assume that the plan will keep earning interest for the next 30 years. If it terminates today, it will not have those years of earnings. Still, the ratios can provide some guidance. ''If it's 90-percent-plus funded,'' said Mr. Wagner, ''I'd feel pretty secure.'' 
 Employees also have the right to get an annual update from their employer showing the specific benefits owed to them. That is crucial because the pension agency sometimes miscalculates. (The agency says that happens in fewer than 10 percent of cases, and that it will repay the full amount plus interest.) 
 Mistakes may occur, said Bennie Hagans, director of the agency's benefits administration and payments department, because ''we are calculating benefits based on unaudited information in order to get people in pay status as soon as possible.''

READ THE FINE PRINT -- That $47,659 guarantee is the high point. For many people, the true payment involves some subtraction.
 If the plan benefit was increased within the past five years, the agency pays only about 20 percent for each year the increase was in effect. Thus, if the benefit went up $100 two years ago, the employee will get just $40.
 If the employee retired before age 65, the guaranteed maximum drops by about 7 percent a year. Once the plan terminates, the benefit is frozen. 
 Even if the company offers the option of taking the retirement benefit in one lump sum, the pension agency will not allow that unless the lump sum is $5,000 or less. Instead, the agency pays a monthly annuity.

CONSIDER EARLY RETIREMENT -- Talk often precedes bankruptcy. ''If people want a lump sum and they hear there are rumors, then they should think about taking early retirement'' to get that cash-out before the plan is shut down, Professor Stein said.
 Many people like the lump sum, Professor Stein added, because ''it's probably the biggest sum they'll ever get their hands on.'' And by taking this step in advance, said Scott Tucker, a benefits lawyer with Mercer Human Resources Consulting in Washington, ''you've got the benefit before you otherwise have to find out if it's going to be reduced'' by the agency's restrictions.
 Theoretically, the pension agency can demand the money back if it thinks the employee took the sum ''in anticipation of termination,'' but Mr. Hagans said that would happen only if the employee had access to inside information. If an employee took early retirement the way Professor Stein and Mr. Tucker described, ''the person just made a business decision,'' Mr. Hagans said. 
 That was the case with David Villarrubia when he retired in July 2005 at age 53, after 27 years as a pilot at Delta Air Lines and just two months before Delta filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code. ''We knew that they were on the cusp of a Chapter 11,'' he said. Because pilots' pensions are typically well above the pension agency maximum, Mr. Villarrubia knew he would take a severe cut (he would not say how much) if Delta terminated the plan and he waited to retire at age 60, as he had intended. Under his union contract, however, he could preserve half his pension in a lump sum if he retired before the bankruptcy filing. 
 ''I would have done anything to stay at Delta,'' recalled Mr. Villarrubia, who now owns and operates the Degas House, a bed-and-breakfast in New Orleans. 

FIGHT IT -- Unions at Delphi and Northwest, among others, have tried to persuade the judges who are overseeing bankruptcy petitions not to approve drastic wage and benefits concessions. Unions, however, have lower standing in court than creditors like banks. ''The judge's priority is the successful restructuring of the company, not the welfare of retirees,'' said Joseph Tiberi, a communications official at the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents 45,000 workers at four carriers in bankruptcy.

FIND ALTERNATIVES -- The machinists and aerospace union switched its members to a so-called multiemployer, or pooled, plan that it had set up 40 years earlier, covering workers at 1,700 companies. That option is available only to people in a limited number of fields, mainly unionized industries with a lot of small employers.
 Long before any bankruptcy threat, workers should save on their own through a 401(k) program, an I.R.A. or a savings account, said Stewart D. Lawrence, head of the retirement practice at Segal Company, a benefits consulting firm in Manhattan. ''Employees in general shouldn't view the pension as an ironclad promise,'' he said. ''Prudence dictates they should do what they can to accumulate other assets.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: INNKEEPER -- David Villarrubia, owner of the Degas House bed-and-breakfast in New Orleans, retired in 2005 at 53, after 27 years as a pilot at Delta Air Lines and two months before Delta filed for bankruptcy protection. (Photo by David Rae Morris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); BONDS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); TOWERS WATSON & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (54%) Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp

TICKER: TW (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: Fran Hawthorne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (69%) ALABAMA, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



582 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Contain the Iraq Disaster

 BODY:
No matter what President Bush says, the question is not whether America can win in Iraq. The only question is whether the United States can extricate itself without leaving behind an unending civil war that will spread more chaos and suffering throughout the Middle East, while spawning terrorism across the globe.
 The prospect of what happens after an American pullout haunts the debate on Iraq. The administration, for all its hints about new strategies and timetables, is obviously hoping to slog along for two more years and dump the problem on Mr. Bush's successor. This fall's election debates have educated very few voters because neither side is prepared to be honest about the terrible consequences of military withdrawal and the very long odds against success if American troops remain.
This page opposed a needlessly hurried and unilateral invasion, even before it became apparent that the Bush administration was unprepared to do the job properly. But after it happened, we believed that America should stay and try to clean up the mess it had made -- as long as there was any conceivable road to success. 
 That road is vanishing. Today we want to describe a strategy for containing the disaster as much as humanly possible. It is hardly a recipe for triumph. Americans can only look back in wonder on the days when the Bush administration believed that success would turn Iraq into a stable, wealthy democracy -- a model to strike fear into the region's autocrats while inspiring a new generation of democrats. Even last fall, the White House was dividing its strategy into a series of victorious outcomes, with the short-term goal of an Iraq ''making steady progress in fighting terrorists.'' The medium term had Iraq taking the lead in ''providing its own security'' and ''on its way to achieving its economic potential,'' with the ultimate outcome being a ''peaceful, united, stable and secure'' nation. 
 If an American military occupation could ever have achieved those goals, that opportunity is gone. It is very clear that even with the best American effort, Iraq will remain at war with itself for years to come, its government weak and deeply divided, and its economy battered and still dependent on outside aid. The most the United States can do now is to try to build up Iraq's security forces so they can contain the fighting -- so it neither devours Iraqi society nor spills over to Iraq's neighbors -- and give Iraq's leaders a start toward the political framework they would need if they chose to try to keep their country whole. 
 The tragedy is that even this marginal sort of outcome seems nearly unachievable now. But if America is to make one last push, there are steps that might lessen the chance of all-out chaos after the troops withdraw:

Start at Home
 For all the talk of timetables for Iraq, there has been little discussion of the timetable that must be handed to George W. Bush. The president cannot leave office with American troops still dying in an Iraq that staggers along just short of civil war, on behalf of no concrete objective other than ''get the job done,'' which is now Mr. Bush's rhetorical substitute for ''stay the course.'' The administration's current vague talk about behind-the-scenes agreements with Iraqi politicians is next to meaningless. Americans, Iraqis and the rest of the world need clear, public signs of progress.
 Mr. Bush can make the first one by firing Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. There is no chance of switching strategy as long as he is in control of the Pentagon. The administration's plans have gone woefully wrong, and while the president is unlikely to admit that, he can send a message by removing Mr. Rumsfeld. It would also be a signal to the military commanders in the field that the administration now wants to hear the truth about what they need, what can be salvaged out of this mess, and what cannot. 
 The president should also make it clear, once and for all, that the United States will not keep permanent bases in Iraq. The people in Iraq and across the Middle East need a strong sign that the troops are not there to further any American imperial agenda.

Demand Reconciliation Talks
 Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, has indefinitely postponed reconciliation talks among the nation's top politicians. He must receive an immediate deadline to start the process. Tomorrow would not be too soon; the end of the year would be too late. 
 Whatever decisions Iraqi leaders reached over the past few years were achieved by pushing aside all the critical questions that were hardest to address. The Bush administration must demand not only that new talks start, but that they continue until some agreement is reached on protecting minority rights, dividing up Iraq's oil revenues, the role of religion in the state, providing an amnesty for insurgents willing to put down their weapons, and demobilizing and disarming the militias. 
 More outside aid could increase their incentive to talk. Even then, the threat of an American withdrawal may be the only way to extract real concessions. In parallel with the reconciliation talks, the United States should begin its own negotiations with the Iraqi leadership about a timetable for withdrawing American troops -- making clear that America's willingness to stay longer will depend on the Iraqis' willingness to make real compromises. Iraqi politicians have to know that they have even more to lose if their country plunges into complete civil war. 
 We are skeptical of calls to divide the country into three ethnically controlled regions, using the model that finally ended the Bosnian war. Most Iraqis, except for the Kurds, show little enthusiasm for the idea. Clear ethnic boundaries could not be drawn without driving many people from their homes -- though an intolerable level of ethnic cleansing is already pushing things in that direction. Any effort at reconciliation will almost certainly require a transfer of power and resources to provincial and local governments. But it must be up to the Iraqis to decide the ultimate shape of their country.

Stabilize Baghdad
 Most Iraqis have forgotten what security is -- or if they remember, it is an idealized vision of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship. Since neither the government nor the American occupation is able to provide basic services or safety, it is little wonder that Iraqis have turned to the militias for protection. In such a world, retribution will always take precedence over the uncertainties of political compromise. 
 American commanders have launched a series of supposedly make-or-break campaigns to take back the streets of Baghdad. The problem is not one of military strategy; their idea of ''clearing'' out insurgents, ''holding'' neighborhoods and quickly rebuilding infrastructure is probably the only thing that could work. The problem is that commanders in Baghdad have been given only a fraction of the troops -- American and Iraqi -- they need. 
 There have never been enough troops, the result of Mr. Rumsfeld's negligent decision to use Iraq as a proving ground for his pet military theories, rather than listen to his generals. And since the Army and Marines are already strained to the breaking point, the only hope of restoring even limited sanity to Baghdad would require the transfer of thousands of American troops to the capital from elsewhere in the country. That likely means moving personnel out of the Sunni-dominated west, and more mayhem in a place like Anbar.
 But Iraqis need a clear demonstration that security and rebuilding is possible. So long as Baghdad is in chaos they will have no reason to believe in anything but sectarian militias and vigilante justice. Once Washington is making a credible effort to stabilize Baghdad, Iraqi politicians will have more of an incentive to show up for reconciliation talks. No one wants to be a rejectionist if it looks like the tide might be turning.

Convene the Neighbors
 America's closest allies in the region are furious about America's gross mismanagement of the war. But even Iran and Syria, which are eager to see America bloodied, have a great deal to lose if all-out civil war erupts in Iraq, driving refugees toward their borders. That self-interest could be the start of a discussion about how Iraq's neighbors might help pressure their clients inside Iraq to step back from the brink. Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich neighbors -- whose own stability could be threatened by an Iraqi collapse -- need to be pressed into providing major financing to underwrite jobs programs and reconstruction. 
 Enlightened self-interest is a rarity in the Middle East. The Bush administration will most likely have to go further to elicit real help, showing a serious willingness to expand its dialogue with Damascus and Tehran beyond the issue of Iraq and to be a genuine broker for Middle East peace. That should be the easiest part of the strategy -- only this White House regards the willingness to talk to another country as a major concession.

Acknowledge Reality
 While the strategy described above seems the best bet to us, the odds are still very much against it working. At this point, all plans to avoid disaster involve the equivalent of a Hail Mary pass. In America, almost no one -- even the administration's harshest critics -- wants to tell people the bitter truth about how few options remain on the table, and about the mayhem that will almost certainly follow an American withdrawal unless more is done. 
 Truth will only take us so far, but it is the right way to begin. Americans will probably spend the next generation debating whether the Iraq invasion would have worked under a competent administration. Right now, the best place to express bitterness about what may become the worst foreign policy debacle in American history is at the polls. But anger at a president is not a plan for what happens next. 
 When it comes to Iraq the choices in the immediate future are scant and ugly. But there are still a few options to pursue, and the alternatives are so horrible that it is worth trying once again -- as long as everyone understands that there is little time left and the odds are very long. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%) Editorials; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iran; Syria; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



583 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer and Faso Back Major Transit Projects 

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
A Second Avenue subway? Eliot Spitzer, the Democratic candidate for governor, and his Republican opponent, John Faso, want to see it built. 
 A Long Island Rail Road tunnel to Grand Central Terminal? Both candidates support that, too.
An extension of the No. 7 train to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center financed by the city? They also support that. 
 And they would like to see a new Tappan Zee Bridge. 
 When it comes to big crowd-pleasing transportation projects, what's not for a candidate for governor to love? 
 With only slight variations in their approaches, Mr. Spitzer, the state attorney general, and Mr. Faso, a former state assemblyman, have declared their support for a list of ambitious infrastructure projects. 
 But neither candidate could promise to deliver on the wish list without increasing fares and tolls.
 In a speech in May to the Regional Plan Association, a group that studies transportation and development issues, Mr. Spitzer promised to continue the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's plans, but also labeled the agency's precarious finances his ''greatest transportation concern.'' And in an interview in late September, he said fare increases for subways and commuter lines may have to be ''on the table.'' 
 The authority is saddled with $20 billion in debt and, after several years of budget surpluses, it is staring at a projected deficit of $905 million in 2008, caused largely by ballooning interest payments on the borrowed money. The deficit is expected to grow to $1.48 billion in 2010.
 The solution, according to Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Faso, is to break a pattern of borrowing at the authority that started in the mid-1990's under Gov. George E. Pataki when state contributions to the agency's capital spending program, which pays for major long-term projects, were drastically reduced.
 At the same time, with the city also cutting its contributions, the authority embarked on an ambitious program of buying new buses and rail cars, upgrading its decaying infrastructure and paying for new projects, like the Second Avenue subway, with borrowed money. 
 If elected governor, Mr. Spitzer said, he would seek to increase state contributions for major projects and would encourage the city and surrounding counties to increase their financial support. But he said it was too early to predict how much the state would be able to invest. 
 Using similar language, Mr. Faso said in an interview in September that the authority has to move back to what he called ''pay-as-you-go financing'' for long-term projects like the Second Avenue subway.
 ''I'm well aware of the funding demands that exist, and I'm also very concerned about the fact that the state and the city over the last many years have really pushed the M.T.A. into a situation where they're using too much debt for capital activities,'' Mr. Faso said. 
 He has proposed setting aside revenues from state sales taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel, which he says add up to more than $600 million a year, to help finance the building of roads, bridges and transit projects statewide. But he would not say how the money would be divided. Mr. Faso has also pledged to freeze state spending during his first year in office and limit budget increases to the inflation rate after that. 
 Beyond the challenge of finding money for long-term projects, the authority also faces tough decisions on how to balance its annual operating budget, which pays for the day-to-day operation of trains, buses, bridges and tunnels, and which is about to become overburdened by debt payments.
 Both Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Faso said that the state may ultimately have to contribute more to operating costs to help bridge the gap, but added that fare and toll increases may also have to be considered. 
 ''Those are ugly words,'' Mr. Spitzer said when asked about increases in fares and tolls. But, he added: ''Everything will have to be on the table. That is where you look at what the cost structure has been and you make the tough decisions.''
 Mr. Spitzer said that service cuts were ''way down on the list'' of options to balance the budget. 
 Mr. Faso also said New Yorkers may have to pay more to use mass transit, bridges and tunnels. ''The budget of the agency has to have an appropriate amount that comes from the fare box, state government, city government and other revenue sources of the M.T.A.,'' he said.
 Mr. Faso said negotiations with the authority's unions should focus on improving productivity and reducing the agency's pension costs. For all their objections to the authority's spending habits, neither candidate said change would come overnight.
 Mr. Spitzer, for instance, talked about the need to wean the authority from its dependence on borrowing. The reason is simple. To begin work on costly projects like the Second Avenue subway and the Long Island Rail Road connection to Grand Central Terminal, officials will need to move ahead with the authority's current five-year plan for major projects, which runs through 2009 and calls for even more borrowing. The fiscal consequences of that added debt are already reflected in the outsized deficit predictions. 
 The first leg of the Second Avenue subway, from 96th Street to 63rd Street, which will be paid for under the current five-year plan, carries an estimated cost of $3.8 billion. The Long Island Rail Road project, including a tunnel under the East River, is estimated to cost $6.3 billion. Both projects will be financed primarily by a combination of borrowing through bonds and federal grants, which have yet to receive final approval. 
 While they both support the Grand Central Terminal tunnel project, Mr. Faso did not support another proposed improvement on the Long Island Rail Road. Mr. Spitzer advocates a plan to increase rush-hour capacity on the commuter line by building a third track along the railroad's Main Line to Hicksville. The extra track has met with opposition from some communities along the route in part because of worries of increased rail traffic.
 One project that has drawn only a lukewarm reception from both candidates is the proposed rail link between Lower Manhattan and Kennedy International Airport. Both Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Faso say the project is not a top priority. 
 Outside the city, budget restrictions have led both candidates to say they would explore alternative ways to pay for a replacement of the deteriorating Tappan Zee Bridge, which is operated by the New York State Thruway Authority. Planners have suggested that a new bridge include express-bus lanes, a new commuter rail line, or a light-rail line to connect the communities on both sides of the Hudson River. Estimates for the project have ranged from $5 billion to $14.5 billion. 
 Both candidates said that the state should explore the possibility of a ''public-private partnership'' to finance the project. That could include selling or leasing all or part of the bridge to a corporate partner that would build the structure and then collect tolls to recoup its investment. 
 ''The notion of a public-private partnership is very much alive,'' Mr. Spitzer said.
 This is the second in a series of articles about the candidates' positions in the race for governor. A previous article examined their positions on taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRAINS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (55%) Election Issues; Transit Systems; Subways; Bridges and Tunnels; Tappan Zee Bridge; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) William Neuman; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; John J (Assemblyman) Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



584 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Bush, Facing Dissent on Iraq, Jettisons 'Stay the Course'

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23 

 BODY:
The White House said Monday that President Bush was no longer using the phrase ''stay the course'' when speaking about the Iraq war, in a new effort to emphasize flexibility in the face of some of the bloodiest violence there since the 2003 invasion.
 ''He stopped using it,'' said Tony Snow, the White House press secretary. ''It left the wrong impression about what was going on and it allowed critics to say, 'Well, here's an administration that's just embarked upon a policy and not looking at what the situation is,' when, in fact, it is the opposite.'' 
Mr. Bush used the slogan in a stump speech on Aug. 31, but has not repeated it for some time. Still, Mr. Snow's pronouncement was a stark example of the complicated line the White House is walking this election year in trying to tag Democrats as wanting to ''cut and run'' from Iraq, without itself appearing wedded to unsuccessful tactics there.
 Democrats have increasingly pressed a case this fall contending that Republicans are stubbornly proposing to ''stay the course'' in a failing effort to stanch violence in Iraq -- an approach that strategists in both parties consider to have been fairly successful, especially as violence has continued to mount in Baghdad.
 In the last few weeks a number of Republican lawmakers and party elders have also come forward to express doubts about whether the administration's approach to stabilizing Iraq is succeeding and to suggest new strategies. 
 Mr. Bush and his aides have met those complaints with a renewed emphasis on adaptability for the United States' war plan. Mr. Bush has stressed -- as he did in an interview with ABC News on Sunday -- that he is ''not patient forever'' and expects the Iraqis to take more responsibility in securing their own country.
 In the same vein, administration officials are heightening the emphasis on setting milestones for Iraq to take over responsibility for ensuring security while disbanding sectarian militia groups.
 Bush administration officials on Monday provided new details of their efforts to devise benchmarks for measuring the Baghdad government's progress in the coming months toward assuming a larger role in securing the country.
 Mr. Snow said the issue of benchmarks had come up cursorily during recent discussions with Mr. Bush; Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld; Gen. John P. Abizaid, the top American commander in the Middle East; Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to Iraq.
 He added that the Bush administration was not presenting any ultimatums to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Malaki's government or tying goals to United States troop commitments.
 Mr. Snow was commenting on a report in The New York Times on Sunday that said the Bush administration was drafting a timetable with Iraqi officials for dealing with the militias and achieving other political, economic and military benchmarks aimed at stabilizing the country.
 The Times article quoted several senior officials anonymously as saying the Bush administration would consider changes in military strategy and other steps if Iraq balked at the benchmarks or failed to meet the most critical timetables.
 Mr. Rumsfeld said Monday that the benchmarks under discussion included projections on when Iraq might be able to take control of more of the country's 18 provinces. Only two provinces are under full Iraqi security administration, though officials say they hope the number will rise to six or seven by the end of the year.
 Speaking to reporters at the Pentagon, Mr. Rumsfeld said the goal of the discussions was to produce a ''way ahead'' so that ''their government can have a set of tasks that they need to do to get prepared to assume the responsibility for governing their country and providing security for their country.''
 The goal, he added, was for both sides to agree on what he called ''projections'' for when Iraq might be able to take on these tasks.
 ''My guess is that you might find that in no case will you find a specific date'' for assuming a particular task, he said. But, he added, ''You might find a month, or you might find a spread of two or three months, a period where they think they might be able to do it.''
 Mr. Bush, in discussing at a news conference on Oct. 11 the meaning of the phrase ''stay the course,'' also refused to be pinned down.
 ''Stay the course means keep doing what you're doing,'' he said. ''My attitude is, don't do what you're doing if it's not working; change.'' 
 He added: ''Stay the course also means don't leave before the job is done. And that's -- we're going to get the job done in Iraq. And it's important that we do get the job done in Iraq.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Elections

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Jim Rutenberg; David S Cloud; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



585 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Official Says Iran Is Testing New Enrichment Device

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23 

 BODY:
The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency said Monday that Iran had begun testing new uranium enrichment equipment that could double the capacity of its small research-and-development facilities.
 The action appears to be a signal to the United Nations Security Council that Iran would respond to sanctions by speeding ahead with its nuclear program.
Since February, when Iran publicly celebrated its first production of enriched uranium, progress at its main nuclear complex at Natanz has reportedly been slow. Iran has sporadically operated a single ''cascade'' of 164 centrifuges, the devices that spin at high speed and turn ordinary uranium into a fuel usable for nuclear power plants -- or, at higher enrichment levels, nuclear weapons. 
 Those reports had prompted speculation that Iranian engineers had run into considerable technical difficulties. 
 But in an interview on Monday, Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the I.A.E.A., said that ''based on our most recent inspections, the second centrifuge cascade is in place and ready to go.'' He said that no uranium had yet been entered into the new system, but could be as early as next week.
 Even with two cascades running, it would take Iran years to enrich enough uranium to produce a single nuclear weapon. 
 The United States director of national intelligence, John D. Negroponte, has said repeatedly that he believes Tehran is 4 to 10 years away from developing a weapon, even though its technology base is far more advanced than that of North Korea, which conducted a nuclear test 15 days ago. 
 Unlike North Korea, Iran has insisted that it does not intend to build a weapon. Nonetheless, Iran ignored an Aug. 31 deadline, set by the Security Council, to stop enriching uranium.
 Since then, European nations, China, Russia and the United States have been debating what sanctions, if any, should be imposed. China and Russia have resisted, and in a speech on Monday at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service, Dr. ElBaradei made clear that he believes sanctions are unlikely to work.
 ''Penalizing them is not a solution,'' he said. ''At the end of the day, we have to bite the bullet and talk to North Korea and Iran.'' 
 Unlike American officials, he says that he remains unpersuaded that Iran's ultimate goal is to build a weapon, though I.A.E.A. officials say they believe that Iran wants to have all of the major components of a weapon in hand so that it is clear that it could build one in weeks or months.
 ''The jury is still out on whether they are developing a nuclear weapon,'' Dr. ElBaradei said at Georgetown, after meeting earlier in the day with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.
 After the meeting, Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said there was now ''widespread agreement, although not total agreement,'' on elements of an initial sanctions package. He did not speculate about when the sanctions might come to a vote; at the end of the summer, administration officials insisted that the Security Council would act in September. 
 Mr. McCormack said the Iranians seemed to be moving ahead ''inexorably at this point,'' so that at some point ''you will have industrial-scale production.'' 
 ''You don't want that,'' he said.
 Some European diplomats have expressed concern that, should the Security Council act, the moderates in the Iranian government who have been involved in negotiations over the nuclear program could be shoved aside, and that some combination of military leaders and hard-line mullahs would push the country to speed its nuclear production.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohamed ElBaradei, the I.A.E.A. chief, met with Condoleezza Rice yesterday. He said Iran had a second centrifuge cascade ''ready to go.'' (Photo by Shawn Thew/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); CENTRIFUGES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%) International Atomic Energy Agency; United Nations; Security Council (Un)

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (57%) David E Sanger; Mohamed Elbaradei

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAN (79%); EUROPE (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



586 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

'Stay the Course' Gone From Bush's Iraq Remarks
The White House said President Bush was no longer using the phrase ''stay the course'' when speaking about the Iraq war, in a new effort to emphasize flexibility in the face of some of the bloodiest violence there since the 2003 invasion. A14

An American soldier apparently working as a translator disappeared in Baghdad, the military said. 
 A14

Economy Strengthens Sudan
Oil has turned Sudan into one of the fastest-growing economies in Africa, giving the nation's government the ability to resist Western demands to end the conflict in Darfur. A1

Iran Tests Nuclear Equipment
The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency said Iran has begun testing new uranium-enrichment equipment that could double the capacity of its small research-and-development facilities. A12

Israeli Premier Broadens Base
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert reached a deal to broaden his shaky coalition by adding a far-right party that seeks to annex parts of the West Bank and to eventually reduce Israel's Arab population. A8

Italy to Replace Its Top Spy
Italy's top spy is expected to be replaced, with prosecutors saying they intend to seek his indictment on charges connected to the abduction of an Egyptian cleric in Milan in 2003 by American intelligence agents. A3

Hungary Riots Mar Anniversary
Violent clashes in Budapest marred the 50th anniversary of Hungary's 1956 uprising against Soviet domination, as the police tried to contain a month-old anti-government protest movement. A11

NATIONAL A16-26

Power of Independents Rises as Election Nears
People in Arizona who reject the old major party labels are by far the fastest-growing category of voter, with the number of independents doubling over the last 10 years. If the trend continues, it could not only lead to more competitive races on the local and statewide level but also in the presidential election. A1

Coca-Cola Donates to Musuem
Coca-Cola said it would donate two and a half acres of land near the downtown tourist district in Atlanta to a proposed civil rights museum that would hold, among other exhibits, the papers of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. A17

Lashing Out at the Iraq War
A brother of Pat Tillman, the popular National Football League player who was killed in combat in Afghanistan after giving up his sports career to serve in the Army, has lashed out at the Iraq war in an essay published online. A20

Sources Sought From Times
A federal magistrate judge has ordered The New York Times to disclose the identities of confidential sources used by one of its columnists, Nicholas D. Kristof, for articles he wrote about the investigation of the deadly anthrax mailings of 2001. A21

EDUCATION

Loan Companies Woo Colleges
With rising tuition and lagging government aid making private student loans a big, increasingly competitive business, loan companies are offering lavish gifts like trips to the Caribbean, iPods and DVD players to court universities to steer students their way. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Experts Clash on Linking Some Deaths to Sept. 11
 The New York City medical examiner's office has refused to put the name of a woman, whose death was the first to be formally linked to the toxic air at ground zero, on its official list of 9/11 victims, stating there was insufficient medical evidence to link the woman's death to the dust. A1 

Hevesi Accused of Illegality
The State Ethics Commission accused Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi of breaking the law by using state employees to chauffeur his wife. The commission's 26-page report dealt a serious blow to Mr. Hevesi, who is running for re-election. B1

3 Dead in Bronx Beating
Three people were bludgeoned to death, probably with a dumbbell and a metal pipe, in the basement of a Bronx apartment building. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

AIDS Drugs Uncover Leprosy
With affordable AIDS drugs arriving in many poor countries, the treatment uncovers a hidden leprosy infection in some patients. F1

Peaceful Nuclear Uses
The International Atomic Energy Agency is working hard to foster peaceful uses for nuclear science including methods of dating and authenticating art. F1

Tumor Types Between Races
African-American women with breast cancer have lower survival rates compared with white women, and a new study suggests that one reason may be a difference in tumor biology between the races. F7

Health & Fitness F5-8

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Ford Reports Sizable Loss
The Ford Motor Company reported a $5.8 billion third-quarter loss, its worst results in more than 14 years, as it and other Detroit auto companies continue to struggle to reinvent themselves. A1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorial: Trying to contain the Iraq disaster.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E9
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); RIOTS (71%); MAGISTRATES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); INDICTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); SPORTS (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); ATHLETES (63%); JUDGES (63%); WRITERS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); ANTHRAX (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (68%); EHUD OLMERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); HUNGARY (93%); SUDAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ITALY (90%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



587 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Seats in Danger, Democrats Proclaim Their Conservatism

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: MACON, Ga., Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Listening to Congressional candidates in middle Georgia, it is easy for someone to think that he is in a different year and, possibly, a different country.
 Democrats defend themselves against accusations that they are rubber stamps for their party's leadership. Democrats are defending the war in Iraq. And Democrats -- yes, Democrats -- strive to align themselves with the president.
''I agree with George Bush on this one,'' Representative John Barrow ends his new advertisement in favor of abolishing the estate tax. 
 Charles S. Bullock, a professor of political science at the University of Georgia, said, ''It's a bit of a return to yesterday.'' 
 For all the talk of this being a Democratic year -- experts and party leaders use words like tide or even tsunami -- there are a small number of exceptions, places where Republicans believe they can take back seats from the Democrats. 
 And these contests are producing some of the fiercest fights -- not to mention the most contrarian campaign strategies -- of the midterm elections, as Democrats try to boast of their conservative credentials and their opponents try to sequester them on the opposite extreme.
 As Mr. Barrow's Republican challenger, Max Burns, declared on Thursday in a debate in Augusta, ''My opponent, he started out a liberal and he's trying to get to the right of Attila the Hun.''
 The number of embattled Democrats has gone down. Republicans at the beginning of the summer said they believed that they could take 10 Democratic seats. Now they say four.
 Every one counts. Facing the possibility that control of the House could be decided on the thinnest of margins, Democrats are not taking any race for granted, and Republicans are eager to exploit any potential Democratic weakness.
 Two of those four seats are here in Georgia, a predominantly Republican state where redistricting has left two Democratic incumbents, Mr. Barrow and Representative Jim Marshall, unfamiliar to a big chunk of their new constituents. 
 The others are Representative Leonard L. Boswell, running against a well-financed opponent in Iowa, and Representative Melissa Bean, who is serving her first term from Illinois. 
 The Economic Freedom Fund, an independent group financed by the Texas homebuilder who bankrolled the Swift boat veterans' attacks against Senator John Kerry in 2004, has singled out Mr. Barrow and Mr. Marshall. 
 President Bush has campaigned in Georgia for Mr. Burns and Michael Collins, and is to return eight days before Election Day. 
 The race between Mr. Marshall and Mr. Collins has been expensive and nasty. Voters tell of receiving seven telephone calls a night and as many fliers in their mailboxes. Mr. Marshall said he had decided to begin advertising early, before Labor Day, when the advertising reached such a pitch that the average viewer was seeing 30 advertisements against him for every 7 in his favor each week, most trying to lump him with liberal Democrats. 
 ''I'm spending a lot more time with Nancy Pelosi, Ted Kennedy and Hillary Clinton on TV in middle Georgia than I will ever in my life spend in reality,'' Mr. Marshall said.
 At a pizza and politics rally at a church in Covington, a town west of Atlanta, Mr. Collins listed familiar bogeymen from the left, Representatives John Conyers Jr., Charles B. Rangel and John P. Murtha. 
 ''And last but not least, Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi from California wants to be speaker of the House,'' he said, his voice low and ominous. ''And I tell you, folks, this is the last thing we need in the House.
 ''The next two years bogged down in investigations, with a judiciary chairman who wants to impeach the president. We don't need those things, folks. So I ask you now, on Nov. 7, vote for Mac Collins to be your congressman. Mac Collins doesn't vote that way. Mac Collins will vote for Denny Hastert, a Republican, to be speaker of the House.'' 
 Never mind that other Republican candidates are canceling appearances with Speaker Hastert, who has been caught up in the aftermath of the Congressional page scandal. Here, the Republican candidates are betting that the association with Mr. Hastert helps them.
 ''If you vote for Barrow, you are giving a vote to Nancy Pelosi,'' Joan Clay, a Republican, said at the debate in Augusta. ''Do you want Nancy Pelosi to be the majority leader?''
 At the debate, Mr. Barrow, a lawyer with the bookish look of a grown-up Harry Potter, jabbed his finger in the air and spoke hurriedly while Mr. Burns stood back with a bemused look and the self-assuredness of an incumbent. Senator Kerry won the 2004 presidential vote in Mr. Barrow's district, but Mr. Bush won in Mr. Marshall's, making him more vulnerable, especially against an established and well-financed candidate like Mr. Collins, who served six terms in the House in a previously configured district. 
 ''It's awfully tempting from a Republican perspective,'' Mr. Marshall, a former law professor and mayor of Macon, said. ''I'd have to be kind of foolish to think it wouldn't be a big fight.'' 
 Forty-three percent of the voting age population in the new district was not represented by Mr. Marshall under the old lines. So he raised more money than he thought he would need, then spent even more than that and continues to raise money two weeks before the election.
 ''What I thought would be a $1 million campaign has turned out to be a $2 million campaign,'' he said.
 While elsewhere, Republicans shun their party label in advertisements, in these districts it is the Democrats who ignore affiliation, declaring themselves, as Ms. Bean does, ''a moderate independent voice'' or as Mr. Barrow does, ''Our congressman on our side,'' without mentioning which side that is.
 ''I have crossed the aisle and worked with the other side more often than almost anyone else,'' Mr. Barrow said Thursday in the debate at a lakeside casino in Augusta. ''I don't think either team has it right in Washington 99 percent of the time.''
 Republicans have had trouble portraying the two Georgia incumbents as liberals because they have largely conservative voting records. Mr. Collins says that is only because Mr. Marshall has had so many Republican bills to vote on. Mr. Marshall, recently inducted into the Army Ranger Hall of Fame, is also popular with the large military population in the district.
 Republicans have tried the ''too liberal for Georgia'' tactic before, even on Zell Miller, the Democratic senator perhaps most popularly remembered for his fiery speech at the Republican National Convention in 2004. Mr. Bullock says the Democrats have learned from the experience of party members like Max Cleland, whose votes exposed him to accusations of being too liberal.
 ''If Democrats are going to get elected in this district, they've got to stake out the middle position, which is what traditional Southern Democrats did,'' Mr. Bullock said. ''And when they did, they held the South.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Jim Marshall, top, Democrat, with Conrad Butts at an Iwo Jima Marine veterans' dinner last week in Macon, Ga. His opponent, Michael Collins, visited a retirement home in Oxford, Ga.
 Representative John Barrow, left, Democrat, and his Republican opponent, Max Burns, at a forum last week in Augusta, Ga. Mr. Barrow, whose district was redrawn, has been brandishing his conservative credentials. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ESTATE TAX (71%); US LABOR DAY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%) Reapportionment; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%) House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: JOHN BARROW (91%); JIM MARSHALL (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MELISSA L BEAN (58%); LEONARD L BOSWELL (58%) Kate Zernike; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Rep) Barrow; Max Burns; Jim (Rep) Marshall; Michael (Repr) Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (92%); MACON, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%) Georgia; Georgia

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



588 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Contain the Iraq Disaster

 BODY:
No matter what President Bush says, the question is not whether America can win in Iraq. The only question is whether the United States can extricate itself without leaving behind an unending civil war that will spread more chaos and suffering throughout the Middle East, while spawning terrorism across the globe.
 The prospect of what happens after an American pullout haunts the debate on Iraq. The administration, for all its hints about new strategies and timetables, is obviously hoping to slog along for two more years and dump the problem on Mr. Bush's successor. This fall's election debates have educated very few voters because neither side is prepared to be honest about the terrible consequences of military withdrawal and the very long odds against success if American troops remain.
This page opposed a needlessly hurried and unilateral invasion, even before it became apparent that the Bush administration was unprepared to do the job properly. But after it happened, we believed that America should stay and try to clean up the mess it had made -- as long as there was any conceivable road to success. 
 That road is vanishing. Today we want to describe a strategy for containing the disaster as much as humanly possible. It is hardly a recipe for triumph. Americans can only look back in wonder on the days when the Bush administration believed that success would turn Iraq into a stable, wealthy democracy -- a model to strike fear into the region's autocrats while inspiring a new generation of democrats. Even last fall, the White House was dividing its strategy into a series of victorious outcomes, with the short-term goal of an Iraq ''making steady progress in fighting terrorists.'' The medium term had Iraq taking the lead in ''providing its own security'' and ''on its way to achieving its economic potential,'' with the ultimate outcome being a ''peaceful, united, stable and secure'' nation. 
 If an American military occupation could ever have achieved those goals, that opportunity is gone. It is very clear that even with the best American effort, Iraq will remain at war with itself for years to come, its government weak and deeply divided, and its economy battered and still dependent on outside aid. The most the United States can do now is to try to build up Iraq's security forces so they can contain the fighting -- so it neither devours Iraqi society nor spills over to Iraq's neighbors -- and give Iraq's leaders a start toward the political framework they would need if they chose to try to keep their country whole. 
 The tragedy is that even this marginal sort of outcome seems nearly unachievable now. But if America is to make one last push, there are steps that might lessen the chance of all-out chaos after the troops withdraw:

Start at Home
 For all the talk of timetables for Iraq, there has been little discussion of the timetable that must be handed to George W. Bush. The president cannot leave office with American troops still dying in an Iraq that staggers along just short of civil war, on behalf of no concrete objective other than ''get the job done,'' which is now Mr. Bush's rhetorical substitute for ''stay the course.'' The administration's current vague talk about behind-the-scenes agreements with Iraqi politicians is next to meaningless. Americans, Iraqis and the rest of the world need clear, public signs of progress.
 Mr. Bush can make the first one by firing Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. There is no chance of switching strategy as long as he is in control of the Pentagon. The administration's plans have gone woefully wrong, and while the president is unlikely to admit that, he can send a message by removing Mr. Rumsfeld. It would also be a signal to the military commanders in the field that the administration now wants to hear the truth about what they need, what can be salvaged out of this mess, and what cannot. 
 The president should also make it clear, once and for all, that the United States will not keep permanent bases in Iraq. The people in Iraq and across the Middle East need a strong sign that the troops are not there to further any American imperial agenda.

Demand Reconciliation Talks
 Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, has indefinitely postponed reconciliation talks among the nation's top politicians. He must receive an immediate deadline to start the process. Tomorrow would not be too soon; the end of the year would be too late. 
 Whatever decisions Iraqi leaders reached over the past few years were achieved by pushing aside all the critical questions that were hardest to address. The Bush administration must demand not only that new talks start, but that they continue until some agreement is reached on protecting minority rights, dividing up Iraq's oil revenues, the role of religion in the state, providing an amnesty for insurgents willing to put down their weapons, and demobilizing and disarming the militias. 
 More outside aid could increase their incentive to talk. Even then, the threat of an American withdrawal may be the only way to extract real concessions. In parallel with the reconciliation talks, the United States should begin its own negotiations with the Iraqi leadership about a timetable for withdrawing American troops -- making clear that America's willingness to stay longer will depend on the Iraqis' willingness to make real compromises. Iraqi politicians have to know that they have even more to lose if their country plunges into complete civil war. 
 We are skeptical of calls to divide the country into three ethnically controlled regions, using the model that finally ended the Bosnian war. Most Iraqis, except for the Kurds, show little enthusiasm for the idea. Clear ethnic boundaries could not be drawn without driving many people from their homes -- though an intolerable level of ethnic cleansing is already pushing things in that direction. Any effort at reconciliation will almost certainly require a transfer of power and resources to provincial and local governments. But it must be up to the Iraqis to decide the ultimate shape of their country.

Stabilize Baghdad
 Most Iraqis have forgotten what security is -- or if they remember, it is an idealized vision of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship. Since neither the government nor the American occupation is able to provide basic services or safety, it is little wonder that Iraqis have turned to the militias for protection. In such a world, retribution will always take precedence over the uncertainties of political compromise. 
 American commanders have launched a series of supposedly make-or-break campaigns to take back the streets of Baghdad. The problem is not one of military strategy; their idea of ''clearing'' out insurgents, ''holding'' neighborhoods and quickly rebuilding infrastructure is probably the only thing that could work. The problem is that commanders in Baghdad have been given only a fraction of the troops -- American and Iraqi -- they need. 
 There have never been enough troops, the result of Mr. Rumsfeld's negligent decision to use Iraq as a proving ground for his pet military theories, rather than listen to his generals. And since the Army and Marines are already strained to the breaking point, the only hope of restoring even limited sanity to Baghdad would require the transfer of thousands of American troops to the capital from elsewhere in the country. That likely means moving personnel out of the Sunni-dominated west, and more mayhem in a place like Anbar.
 But Iraqis need a clear demonstration that security and rebuilding is possible. So long as Baghdad is in chaos they will have no reason to believe in anything but sectarian militias and vigilante justice. Once Washington is making a credible effort to stabilize Baghdad, Iraqi politicians will have more of an incentive to show up for reconciliation talks. No one wants to be a rejectionist if it looks like the tide might be turning.

Convene the Neighbors
 America's closest allies in the region are furious about America's gross mismanagement of the war. But even Iran and Syria, which are eager to see America bloodied, have a great deal to lose if all-out civil war erupts in Iraq, driving refugees toward their borders. That self-interest could be the start of a discussion about how Iraq's neighbors might help pressure their clients inside Iraq to step back from the brink. Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich neighbors -- whose own stability could be threatened by an Iraqi collapse -- need to be pressed into providing major financing to underwrite jobs programs and reconstruction. 
 Enlightened self-interest is a rarity in the Middle East. The Bush administration will most likely have to go further to elicit real help, showing a serious willingness to expand its dialogue with Damascus and Tehran beyond the issue of Iraq and to be a genuine broker for Middle East peace. That should be the easiest part of the strategy -- only this White House regards the willingness to talk to another country as a major concession.

Acknowledge Reality
 While the strategy described above seems the best bet to us, the odds are still very much against it working. At this point, all plans to avoid disaster involve the equivalent of a Hail Mary pass. In America, almost no one -- even the administration's harshest critics -- wants to tell people the bitter truth about how few options remain on the table, and about the mayhem that will almost certainly follow an American withdrawal unless more is done. 
 Truth will only take us so far, but it is the right way to begin. Americans will probably spend the next generation debating whether the Iraq invasion would have worked under a competent administration. Right now, the best place to express bitterness about what may become the worst foreign policy debacle in American history is at the polls. But anger at a president is not a plan for what happens next. 
 When it comes to Iraq the choices in the immediate future are scant and ugly. But there are still a few options to pursue, and the alternatives are so horrible that it is worth trying once again -- as long as everyone understands that there is little time left and the odds are very long. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); TERRORISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



589 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1808 words

HEADLINE: This Time, It's Not the Economy

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
In many ways, the economy has not looked so good in a long time.
 The price of gas at the pump has tumbled since midsummer. Unemployment has fallen to its lowest level in more than five years. On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average has finally returned to its glory days of the late 1990's, setting records almost daily.
President Bush, in hopes of winning credit for his party's stewardship of the economy, is spending two days this week campaigning on the theme that the economy is purring. ''No question that a strong economy is going to help our candidates,'' Mr. Bush said in a CNBC interview yesterday, ''primarily because they have got something to run on, they can say our economy's good because I voted for tax relief.''
 But Republican candidates do not seem to be getting any traction from the glowing economic statistics with midterm elections just two weeks away. 
 The economy is virtually nowhere to be found among the campaign ads of embattled Republican incumbents fighting to hold onto their House or Senate seats. Nor is it showing up as a strong weapon in the arsenal of Republican governors defending their jobs from Democrats. 
 ''I don't know of another election cycle in which the economy was so good, yet the election prospects for the incumbent party looked so bad,'' said Frank Luntz, a Republican strategist. ''If something goes wrong, Republicans are to blame. If something goes right, Republicans don't get credit.''
 The only place that the economy has emerged as a major campaign theme has been in the aging industrial heartland around the Great Lakes, where the bleak economic prospects are being deployed against incumbents, Republicans and Democrats alike. But where the economic winds seem to be blowing their way, voters appear unwilling to hear that Republican policies made it so.
 Disenchantment over the war in Iraq has morphed into disillusionment over the direction of the country, breeding distrust in the administration's policies, surveys suggest. Moreover, concerned by weak wage growth, costly health care and eroding benefits, many middle-class voters do not see the economy improving for them. 
 ''Voters overwhelmingly don't approve of the president on the economy,'' said Amy Walter, a senior editor at the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan firm that handicaps political races. ''It comes down to the issue of credibility. And so many voters feel so pessimistic about the direction of the country.''
 Richard Curtin, who runs the University of Michigan's consumer surveys, has found that even as consumer confidence has improved since gasoline prices took a tumble in August, the White House has gotten no credit for the gain.
 ''The one indicator that didn't improve,'' Mr. Curtin said, ''was confidence in the government's economic policies.''
 For many voters, the overall issue has faded in importance as the economy has managed to grow steadily in recent years. In late 2003, The New York Times/CBS News poll found, 4 in 10 voters said either the economy or jobs was the most pressing problem facing the nation. This month, only 13 percent shared that concern. 
 But Republicans' inability to harness an improving economy in their political favor appears mostly to be a function of the weight of other big national issues stacked against them. Prime among them are voters' growing concerns about the costs of the war in Iraq, fed by a stream of American casualties displayed every night on television. 
 The seeming morass in Iraq has hurt Republicans in more ways than one, analysts say, contributing to the notion that the country is heading in the wrong direction and fueling distrust in the administration of President Bush that has leaked out to other fronts -- including his management of the economy. 
 The lack of confidence in the administration undercuts the support by voters who want to vote for Republicans on local issues.
 Terris Kennedy, 59, a former military nurse who is the chief nursing officer at Shore Memorial Hospital in Nassawadox, Va., says she may well vote Democratic in the Virginia Senate race even though she plans to support the Republican incumbent, Thelma Drake, in the state's Second Congressional District, centered in Virginia Beach. 
 Ms. Kennedy likes Ms. Drake because she seems interested in the challenge of how to deliver health services to diverse low-income populations. 
 But she said her concern over the war in Iraq and her skepticism about whether it was a good idea to stay the course there might lead her to vote for a Democrat, James Webb, over the Republican incumbent George Allen in the Senate race. ''Senator Allen is very close to the President,'' Ms. Kennedy said.
 Tim Murtaugh, Ms. Drake's campaign manager, said Iraq and immigration were the two biggest issues on the minds of voters in this military-heavy district, home to the Atlantic fleet of the Navy and Langley Air Force Base. Still, he said that the district had nearly full employment and that he believed that voters were aware that the local economy was strong. 
 Ms. Drake's campaign ads have suggested that her rival, Phil Kellam, will vote to raise taxes. But Ms. Kennedy disagrees with that.
 ''I don't see Democrats as tax-and-spend liberals,'' she said. She has more doubts about the government's economic track record. ''Even though the deficit has come down we still have a horrible deficit,'' Ms. Kennedy said.
 It has been some time since the public last trusted Republicans more than Democrats on economic issues.
 Of voters polled in the latest New York Times/CBS News national survey this month, 60 percent rated the economy as either good or very good, up from 56 percent in September.
 But voters favor Democrats over Republicans as stewards of the economy by 51 to 36 percent. The 15-point margin, which remained the same as in September, is the widest since the survey first included the question in 1984. 
 Republicans have a tough act to follow. President Bush pointed out yesterday that employers have added 6.6 million jobs since August 2003, finally gaining ground after a long decline in employment over most of his first term. But the figure falls well short of the nine million jobs created during the same period of the Clinton administration. 
 Still, the National Republican Congressional Committee believes that the improving economy provides a good issue for many Republicans to run on, and has spent money on TV commercials praising the administration's economic track record in several Midwest districts and upstate New York. 
 ''The strategy is to run on the role of tax relief in the improvement of the economy,'' said Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for the committee. ''We can target the Democrats who have voiced support for repealing or letting expire the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003.'' 
 A few candidates have taken this tack, but most have done so sparingly. Some Republican challengers are using the economy as a campaign issue in places where it is doing poorly. 
 Dick DeVos, the Republican challenger to Jennifer Granholm in Michigan's gubernatorial race, reminded voters in campaign commercials that the state still had ''the worst unemployment in the nation.''
 Perhaps the biggest challenge Republicans face to take credit for an improving economy is that for many voters, their economic prospects do not feel as great as overall statistics might imply. Rather than celebrate the stock market's gains and the overall growth of the economy, many voters are worried about the wages of ordinary workers, which have just started to improve after several years of falling short or barely keeping up with inflation. 
 The tens of millions of people lacking health insurance and the steady shrinkage in traditional pensions have also added to the sense of personal insecurity.
 Consider Florida's 22nd Congressional District, stretching along the Atlantic coast in Broward and Palm Beach Counties, north of Miami. Employment in the district has grown at three times the national average over the last three years, according to an analysis by Moody's Economy.com. Unemployment there is well under the national level.
 But the Republican incumbent, E. Clay Shaw Jr., running neck and neck with Ron Klein, a Democrat, has steered away from celebrating the area's sunny economic prospects. Instead, he has pointed to his record on the environment, talked about how he disagreed with President Bush's attempt to privatize Social Security, and accused Mr. Klein of being in the pocket of sugar companies.
 That might be the appropriate strategy. David Hensley, who lives in Mr. Shaw's district, says he will probably vote for him, as he has before. But Mr. Hensley, 62, is not doing so out of any sense of economic prosperity.
 ''The economy is in the toilet no matter who is in control,'' Mr. Hensley said. 
 And concerns over how fair the prosperous economy has been to most Americans appear to be hurting Republican prospects even among those who see themselves as doing relatively well.
 Ann O'Callahan, a 64-year old Irish immigrant in suburban Philadelphia, defines herself as a social conservative. She voted Republican in 2000, but switched to the Democrats in 2004. This year she plans to vote Democratic again, mainly because of the economy. ''I am very disturbed by the economic policies of the Bush administration,'' she said.
 Ms. O'Callahan's district, Pennsylvania's Seventh, is an island of relative affluence. The median income in the area, according to the Census Bureau, topped $63,000 last year, more than a third higher than the national median. According to Economy.com's analysis, based on county data, unemployment this year in the district should average 3.8 percent, well below the national average.
 But, Ms. O'Callahan said, jobs were not enough. ''I work with job placement so I see up close how a lot more work is demanded of people, how benefits are disappearing, how hourly rates have been stagnant throughout the Bush administration,'' she said. She said that jobs were plentiful, ''but paying $8 an hour with no benefits.'' 
 Republican leaders might still try to use an improving economy for a final campaign push. Mr. Luntz, the Republican strategist, said economic issues should help the party in Florida, Georgia and the Carolinas.
 Mr. Collegio of the National Republican Campaign Committee said the campaign group planned a flurry of advertisements warning that, as they see it, Democrats will hurt the economy by raising taxes. 
 Still, even that tried-and-true Republican theme may not work so well this year. 
 ''In these races you just pray for a Republican claiming that tax cuts are the reason for the good economy,'' said Stanley Greenberg, a Democratic pollster. ''Candidates don't do it because the public doesn't believe it. And a candidate who claimed it would seem out of touch.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: For many likely voters in the midterm elections, disillusionment over the direction of the country has become the dominant issue. (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 President Bush yesterday with the first lady, Laura Bush. He is campaigning this week on the theme that the economy is doing well. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C5)Graph: ''Pre-election Indicators''According to nationwide polls conducted by The Times and CBS News.Regardless of how you usually vote, do you think the Republican Party or the Democratic Party is more likely to ensure a strong economy?Graph tracks answers to the aforementioned question since 1984.What is the most important problem facing this country today?Graph tracks the answer to the aforementioned question since 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); STATISTICS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); IRAQ WAR (66%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%) United States Economy; Election Issues ; Elections; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Labor; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Fringe Benefits; Political Advertising; Public Opinion; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US) ; House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GREAT LAKES (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq; Great Lakes

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006



590 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: When Jobs Are Bountiful And Pay Isn't

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
Email: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In the early months of 1935, this newspaper ran a series of editorials warning about a grave threat to the American economy. The Social Security plan being pushed by Franklin D. Roosevelt was ''a bad bill,'' the editorials said, that would become an enormous burden on American companies and might be unconstitutional to boot.
 Many Congressional Republicans and business executives agreed, predicting that the bill's new payroll taxes would short-circuit the economy's recovery from the Great Depression. With all this criticism, the bill's fate seemed uncertain. On March 21, the editorial page of The New York Times approvingly quoted a news report saying that the bill's prospects were ''diminishing daily.'' 
 The worries about Social Security may sound silly now, given that it did pass that summer and went on to become one of the most popular government programs in American history. But on the narrow charge that they were making -- that Social Security would destroy jobs -- the critics at The New York Times and on Capitol Hill were, in fact, correct. 
 Besides taking money out of the pockets of workers that otherwise might have been spent, the new payroll taxes raised the cost of employing workers, and when the cost of something goes up, demand for it usually goes down. The Social Security Act of 1935, as the historian Edward Berkowitz has noted, laid the groundwork for the ''Roosevelt recession'' of 1937 and 1938. 
 Social Security is hardly the only job-killing program enacted in the last century. If the country cared only about creating jobs -- rather than, say, lifting living standards -- it would also be wise to get rid of Medicare and the payroll taxes that come with it. Workplace safety rules, with their costly requirements that workers not be injured on the job, should go, too.
 Which brings us to today's equivalent: the minimum wage, on the ballot this year in Arizona, Colorado, Missouri, Montana, Ohio and Nevada. Voters will decide whether to raise their state minimum wages by as much as $1.70 and to index the wages to inflation thereafter, making the federal minimum of $5.15 an hour largely moot. 
 Ten years have passed since Congress last voted to raise the minimum wage, and it has drifted down to a 50-year low in inflation-adjusted terms, about a third lower than it was at its peak in the late 1960's. In 1968, an hour's worth of minimum wage work bought almost five gallons of gas. Today, it buys less than three gallons.
 Every time the issue has come up in Congress or in the states, opponents have raised the same specter of mass unemployment that was part of the fight over Social Security. In 1996, Senator Hank Brown, a Colorado Republican, said that a higher minimum wage would cast teenagers out of work and create ''a crime problem and a juvenile problem of epic proportions.''
 This year, one television ad paid for by the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce and other business groups portrays a man dressed as Moses coming to tell God about the minimum-wage initiative. With storm clouds rolling in, an off-screen God pronounces the initiative ''a catastrophe.'' If that's not quite graphic enough for you, another ad shows a roll of toilet paper morphing into a cheese grater, in an attempt to describe how a minimum-wage increase will feel to Coloradoans.
 Yet such arguments seem to be falling flat with voters. A recent poll in Colorado shows 69 percent supporting the measure there, and only 26 percent opposed. In the other five states, the initiatives have similarly big leads, if the polls are to be believed. Already, 21 states have minimum wages higher than $5.15.
 I think there are two main reasons for the enormous popularity of the proposals. By now, many people probably understand that the dire predictions about higher minimum wages don't come true. In the 10 years since Congress raised the minimum wage, crime didn't become an epic problem, as Mr. Brown forecast. Instead, it has fallen sharply.
 In fact, modest rises in the minimum wage don't even appear to kill many jobs. The recent state increases have created a series of natural experiments for researchers to study, and they have generally found that modest changes have only minor effects on employment levels. Some have found no net effect. Higher wages may end up lifting employee morale and reducing turnover, making business more productive and mitigating some of the higher labor costs. 
 As Alan S. Blinder, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, says, ''What's changed in the last 10 to 15 years is an accumulation of pretty convincing evidence that the employment problem is not very significant.'' 
 Mr. Blinder is also an author of a popular college textbook, which once instructed students that, ''The primary consequence of the minimum wage law is not an increase in the incomes of the least skilled workers but a restriction of their employment opportunities.'' In the current edition, that sentence is gone.
 The second big cause of the proposals' popularity stems in all likelihood from the rise of income inequality. The American economy has done so well at creating jobs in recent decades that almost anybody who wants work can find it. The problem is that too many jobs still don't pay a decent living. So even if a minimum wage increase does eliminate a small number of jobs, that may be an acceptable price for improving the lot of millions of low-wage workers.
 The current batch of ballot initiatives isn't perfect. Three of the six would enshrine the new wage in the state constitution, which seems a strange place to discuss inflation indexing (a point that opponents are emphasizing, perhaps realizing that the old scare tactics aren't enough). A higher minimum wage also isn't the most effective way to fight poverty, because some minimum wage jobs are held by middle-class teenagers.
 But Congress and state legislatures have yet to come up with better solutions, and voters may not be willing to wait for perfection.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Federal minimum wage since 1940. (Source by Labor Department)(pg. C1)Chart/Map: ''Higher Wages''Twenty one states have a minimum wage higher than the federal level of $5.15 an hour. Two more will raise their minimum wage above the federal level next year and another six are considering it.Coming changes to state minimum wagesWashington2006 -- $7.63PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- $7.93PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- Inflation adjustedOregon2006 -- 7.50PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.80PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- Inflation adjustedConnecticut2006 -- 7.40PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.65PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.65Vermont2006 -- 7.25PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- Inflation adjustedPLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- Inflation adjustedAlaska2006 -- 7.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.15New Jersey2006 -- 7.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.15Rhode Island2006 -- 7.10PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.40PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.40District of Columbia2006 -- 7.00PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.00PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.00Michigan2006 -- 6.95PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.15*PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.40*California2006 -- 6.75PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.50PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 8.00Hawaii2006 -- 6.75PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.25PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.25Maine2006 -- 6.75PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.00+PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.00Massachusetts2006 -- 6.75PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.50PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 8.00New York2006 -- 6.75PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.15Illinois2006 -- 6.50PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 6.50PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 6.50Wisconsin2006 -- 6.50PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 6.50PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 6.50Florida2006 -- 6.40PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 6.67PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- Inflation adjustedArkansas2006 -- 6.25PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 6.25PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 6.25Delaware2006 -- 6.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 6.65PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.15Maryland2006 -- 6.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 6.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 6.15Minnesota2006 -- 6.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 6.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 6.15North Carolina (Federal level)2006 -- 5.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 6.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 6.15Pennsylvania (Federal level)2006 -- 5.15PLANNED JAN. 1, 2007 -- 7.15*PLANNED JAN. 1, 2008 -- 7.15Map of the United States show states with a minimum wage higher than the federal level.Data as of Oct. 2, 2006 * Effective July 1 + Effective Oct. 1(Source by Economic Policy Institute)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HISTORY (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); REFERENDUMS (66%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%) Labor; Referendums; Minimum Wage; Children and Youth; Labor

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Arizona; Colorado; Missouri; Montana; Ohio; Nevada

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



591 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Cars; URBAN OUTLOOK; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: A City's Waterfront: A Place for People or Traffic?

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
THE din along this city's waterfront does not come only from the procession of cars and trucks on the Alaskan Way Viaduct, an elevated highway over Elliott Bay that carries more than 105,000 vehicles a day. It also comes from the tumultuous civic dispute over a multibillion-dollar repair project involving the highway and the shoreline. 
 In February 2001, Seattle was struck by the 6.8-magnitude Nisqually earthquake, which severely damaged the 53-year-old viaduct and the seawall holding it up.
Everybody agrees that the seawall must be rebuilt, at a cost of roughly $1 billion. But in the nearly six years since the earthquake, the debate over what to do about the highway has grown more complex. Assertions by traffic engineers about the highway's central place in the region's transportation network -- it carries a fifth of Seattle's north-south traffic -- are colliding with new ideas about building a waterfront park above a six-lane tunnel, replacing the viaduct with a new one or building a park and a boulevard with no shoreline highway at all. 
 The argument reflects the shifts that are occurring as American cities invest in infrastructure to become more economically competitive. Seattle is the latest city to weigh the value of replacing a 20th-century symbol of driving efficiency, designed to serve cars, with parks and boulevards, designed to enrich the human experience. 
 ''Imagine our waterfront without the noise, blight and dirt from a nearby elevated freeway,'' wrote Greg Nickels, Seattle's mayor, in a 2004 article in The Seattle Times. ''Imagine walking along the waterfront and actually hearing the words of the person next to you, or hearing the cry of a seagull and the splash of the waves instead of rush hour.'' 
 Essentially, Seattle has three options. 
 One proposal, preferred by the speaker of the State Legislature, is to build a new and bigger elevated highway for about $3.3 billion. 
 Another proposal, backed by the mayor and the City Council, is to build a six-lane tunnel, a shoreline boulevard and a waterfront park for about $5.5 billion, a plan supported by several of the city's most influential business and neighborhood groups. 
 The population of Seattle, about 573,000, and surrounding King County, about 1.8 million, is growing fast. Demographers and economists expect downtown Seattle to add 56,000 new residents and 69,000 more jobs by 2020. ''The city's proposal for the Alaskan Way Tunnel is a three-for,'' said Grace Crunican, director of the city's Department of Transportation. ''The tunnel meets our transportation needs. We get a new seawall. And we get our waterfront back.''
 The third idea, pursued by a citizens' group, the People's Waterfront Coalition, is to tear down the old highway, build a waterfront park and smaller boulevard, increase transit service and modernize existing streets. 
 The coalition's proposal is based to some extent on the success of other cities, particularly San Francisco and Portland, Ore., which have replaced highways with waterfront parks and transit investments, and generated population gains and new economic vitality in neighborhoods once divided by highways. The coalition emphasizes one more point about its proposal -- its cost, which is under $1 billion.
 ''The question before us is, Can an American city voluntarily get rid of a moderately significant link in its transportation grid?'' said Clark Williams-Derry, 38, research director at Sightline Institute, a research center in Seattle, who helped the coalition refine its proposal. ''Can it be done politically? Can it be done substantively? What's clear is that it can be done substantively.''
 When it was opened in 1953, the 2.2-mile-long viaduct represented the country's economic development priorities, providing drivers efficient routes from the central city to growing suburbs. Similar shoreline freeways were built in New York, Boston, San Francisco, Portland, Cleveland and other cities.
 But in the early years of the 21st century, Seattle's old wall of concrete has come to be viewed as a barrier to the city's quality of life. The viaduct has been accused of various civic offenses, including separating residents from easy access to natural resources, especially a spectacular shoreline. 
 ''No one in the civilized world would build a double-decker freeway now on their beautiful waterfront if they had a good choice, which we do,'' said Sally Bagshaw, a lawyer, downtown resident and co-author of a report describing various plans for replacing the viaduct with a tunnel and waterfront park.
 But what Ms. Bagshaw calls a no-brainer is viewed as a potential calamity by many merchants in Pioneer Square, the historic section of Seattle close to the viaduct. ''The people I know aren't ready to swallow a tunnel,'' said John Siscoe, who owns the Globe Bookstore, citing cost overruns and delays experienced during Boston's $14.6 billion tunneling project known as the Big Dig. ''Oh, boy, what a mess we would be buying. Of all the options, we should forget the tunnel.''
 Yet as city and state leaders argue over whether to build a tunnel or a new viaduct, the idea of doing neither seems to be gaining credence as the experiences of other cities that faced similar turning points are brought into the discussion. Cleveland is replacing the western section of its Memorial Shoreway, along Lake Erie, with a boulevard that is intended to spur development. Buffalo is debating whether to build a boulevard in place of its elevated Skyway along Lake Erie. Washington is considering demolishing its elevated Whitehurst Expressway to link Georgetown to a new park along the Potomac River. 
 Milwaukee has already done so. The city spent $45 million to tear down the East Park Thruway in 2003, restored the street grid beneath it and freed up nearly 20 acres of land on the north side. ''The hardest part was convincing people that the highway wasn't needed,'' said John Norquist, a former mayor of Milwaukee and now president of the Congress for the New Urbanism, a design and planning group in Chicago. ''What happens is that traffic, for the most part, redistributes. Drivers have brains. They find other ways to get around.''
 Cary Moon, an engineer and planner who directs the People's Waterfront Coalition from her downtown Seattle apartment, said that regardless of what is built, the viaduct would be coming down. For three or four years, there will be no highway at all along the waterfront. Seattle's traffic management plan calls for new transit service, improving streets, installing street signals and encouraging people to find alternatives. The city's plan is similar to the one proposed by Ms. Moon's group. ''We're going to find out that's all we really need,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW VIEWS -- Proposals are under consideration to replace Seattle's Alaskan Way Viaduct, left, which runs along the city's waterfront. Pedestrians stroll near the viaduct, below left, which was damaged in a 2001 earthquake. (Photographs by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); ENGINEERING (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%) Special Sections; Area Planning and Renewal; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Bridges and Tunnels; Earthquakes; Alaskan Way Viaduct (Seattle, Wash); Urban Areas

PERSON: Keith Schneider

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Seattle (Wash); Seattle (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



592 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Cars; ALTERNATIVES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Still Miles to Go For the Plug-In Vehicle

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE electric system runs mostly on coal, natural gas and uranium, all relatively plentiful. Cars run mostly on oil, oil and oil, which lately has been expensive. Wouldn't it be nice to connect the two? 
 Commercially available batteries will not store enough electricity to move a full-size car more than about 60 or 70 miles, enough to meet most drivers' needs on most days but not a very attractive candidate in the auto showroom. So what about a car with enough battery power for its first few dozen miles, and a gasoline engine to handle the rest?
Enter the plug-in hybrid, or rather, the concept of a plug-in hybrid. The idea is to expand on the gasoline-electric hybrids already on the road, which charge the battery from the gasoline engine. With a bigger battery pack, charged from an electric outlet, drivers could go the first few gallons' worth every day on electricity instead, the theory goes. 
 Comparing total miles driven with the gasoline consumed, advocates say the plug-ins will travel 80 miles or more on a gallon. The rest of the energy will come from coal or natural gas, or, ideally, wind turning a windmill or water spinning a hydroelectric turbine. 
 ''There's now a real and growing recognition that we face a national security crisis in energy dependency,'' said Frank J. Gaffney Jr., the president and chief executive of the Center for Security Policy, an advocacy group here, who has been campaigning for plug-ins. Mr. Gaffney, who has held various Pentagon jobs in Republican administrations, argued, ''It makes eminent sense to make as rapid a transition to those plug-in hybrids as we can.''
 It also has economic appeal. At $2.50 a gallon, a vehicle that gets 20 miles to the gallon costs 12.5 cents a mile to run. But a car that goes four miles on a kilowatt-hour would cost just over 2 cents a mile to run, at the national average retail electricity price. But the price might be lower than average because electric companies could tap into cheap nighttime generation, getting new use from equipment that is usually idle for half the day.
 Yet despite the hopes of policy makers, engineers say there is no prospect of this happening in the near future. 
 At Toyota, which dominates the hybrid market and builds the Prius, the hybrid that advocates want to convert to plug-in, David Hermance, the executive engineer for environmental engineering, is horrified.
 He said he recognized the appeal. Plug-ins, he said, ''have been put forward as the silver bullet solution for almost everything.''
 But, he said, plug-ins are ''not yet ready for prime time.'' 
 And if Toyota sounds reticent, DaimlerChrysler is downright reluctant, even though it has built four test models, commercial-size vans that run on gasoline and electricity. 
 One drawback, said Deborah Morrissett, vice president of regulatory affairs, is ''you're still hauling around two powertrains,'' meaning extra weight and complexity.
 ''It's not high on our list,'' she said. 
 But both companies, as well as General Motors, have said that they are looking at the technology.
 A crucial problem is that the Prius battery will last well over 100,000 miles, but only because it is babied. It is seldom charged above 60 percent of capacity, or allowed to fall below 40 percent. If it were charged fully and allowed to run down, like a laptop battery, it would, over hundreds of cycles, lose its ability to hold a charge, Toyota says. That suggests a replacement cost in the thousands of dollars. 
 ''It's going to be a real issue from a durability standpoint,'' Mr. Hermance said. 
 A recent study by the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, while praising the plug-in goal, cast severe doubt on its practicality. When gasoline costs $3 a gallon and the driver goes 12,000 miles a year, the report said, a year's fuel is about $1,200 in a conventional car, but a Prius at 50 miles a gallon saves $480 of that. If the hybrid costs an extra $3,500, then the payback period is seven years, the report said.
 But if the plug-in goes four miles on a kilowatt-hour, and does its first 40 miles on electricity, the incremental cost would be about $20,000, but the saving is only about $15 a year larger than for the Prius-type vehicle. The car could be registered as an antique before the owner earned back the additional investment.
 Ricardo Bazzarella, president of Hymotion, a Toronto company that sells conversion kits, said that gasoline would probably have to hit around $5 to get a four-year payback. So for the moment, his sales are limited to people who are interested in technology, not money. 
 There is a market for such people. Felix Kramer, the founder of the California Cars Initiative, an advocacy group, pointed out a parallel in the energy world. ''People will say it's worth paying a little more to get wind and solar into the marketplace,'' he said.
 And batteries could improve. At the Electric Power Research Institute, a utility consortium in Palo Alto, Calif., Mark S. Duvall, the manager of technology development, said that nickel-metal-hydride batteries, which are big enough for cars and durable enough for years of use, could be built, but that the industry had never done so because there was no demand. 
 The institute has visions of a ''smart grid,'' in which a plug-in hybrid, or pure electric, can plug in anywhere. The utility system will recognize it, charge it up and bill the owner of the car, not the owner of the outlet. The arrangement would be somewhat like a person with a telephone credit card using any phone at his own expense
 Cars for a plug-in hybrid are a different problem than batteries for cars like a Prius. Engineers evaluate batteries on two main characteristics: how much they will store and how fast they will accept or deliver energy. Prius batteries are more like a shot glass, accepting and delivering a small quantity very quickly. 
 The battery providing the sole source of power for an electric car is shaped more like a decanter, with a large volume delivered and accepted at slower rates per pound of battery.
 But batteries that wore out too quickly -- or proved capable of occasional fires, like the ones now being recalled from laptop use -- would sour the public on the plug-in concept, experts say. It also has to make economic sense.
 ''The cost-benefit relationship has got to be there,'' said Mr. Hermance of Toyota. ''If you can't sell them, they can't do anybody any good.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CHARGED UP -- Hymotion sells a kit that adds a plug-in battery to the Toyota Prius.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENGINEERING (87%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Automobiles; Special Sections; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



593 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Cars; MAKEOVER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: From Average-Joe Subcompact to Spymobile

BYLINE: By FARA WARNER

 BODY:
WHEN Christian Rado was growing up he dreamed of having a car like James Bond -- an Aston Martin or a BMW roadster tricked out with secret-agent stuff.
 But when Mr. Rado, 31, a racecar driver from Reading, Pa., got around to creating his dream spy car -- with retinal scan identification and a flame thrower -- he chose a tiny Scion tC subcompact made by Toyota. It costs less than a 10th of the cheapest Aston and sips gas instead of sucking it.
But Mr. Rado saw the car as more than a cheap ride. ''This was just a great blank canvas to work from,'' he said. He added oversize bumpers and side panels to make the little car look tough. He built a new front end so that the Scion could handle 10-inch-wide tires with 19-inch wheels -- creating a wide stance more familiar on cars like Ferraris. 
 Then Mr. Rado took his ''spy'' Scion to the auto industry's biggest car show for tuners -- the people who radically overhaul their cars to create dream vehicles -- the annual convention of the Specialty Equipment Market Association, a trade group known as SEMA. His plan was to gauge just how interested people would be in a tiny spy-tuned car. Interest was high enough that Mr. Rado, who has a racing sponsorship with Scion this year, is selling a line of accessories he designed that can help make any Scion tC look like his. 
 Mr. Rado's Scion may be a radical example of how to make a small car cool, but it also shows how cars that were once bought for basic transportation have captured the fancy of tuners and the mainstream public.
 Historically, professional tuners and young people bought used cars like Civics and Subarus and tuned them for fun. But that is changing as automakers realize there is money to be made in selling very small cars based on striking styling and good performance. It doesn't hurt, however, that the cars often sell for less than $14,000. 
 ''One big reason for their popularity is how affordable these cars are,'' said Matt Pearson, editorial director of SEMA. ''It used to be young kids got their moms' Civic handed down to them, and they turned it into a rolling chassis to express their personality. Today, kids can afford one of these new cars even on a part-time salary.'' 
 Economy subcompacts have always been available. What's different now is how much buyers expect to get for their money. Ten years ago, some cars may have had power steering but rarely power windows or air bags. Today, automakers cannot scrimp on styling, performance, safety and creature comforts, even on the cheapest cars.
 ''Consumer expectations are elevated everywhere, and that's true in the car market,'' said Christina Ra, product planner for the Honda Fit. ''They just aren't willing to compromise.'' The Fit, which has a starting price of $13,850, comes standard with power windows, front and side air bags and a good audio system. A Fit Sport, which retails at $15,170, comes with paddle shifters for the automatic transmission that let drivers shift gears like a Formula 1 racer does.
 The Fit, like the Toyota Scion brand, has become popular among tuners who once favored larger compact cars like the Acura Integra and the Mitsubishi Eclipse. When Super Street magazine, the bible of the tuner market, was deciding what car to put on the cover of its 10th anniversary issue this month, it chose the Fit over larger cars. 
 ''The Integra was the first car on the cover of that magazine 10 years ago,'' said Peter MacGillivray, vice president of SEMA. ''It defined the tuner movement for years to come. Now they've got the Fit flying through the air on the cover, and that will define where these vehicles are going.''
 Other manufacturers are also increasing their cool quotient on small cars. Historically, they have looked at economy cars as plain-vanilla vehicles. When Chrysler was designing the new Dodge Caliber, which starts at $13,995, it made choices about styling and accessories based on what it thought consumers would want, not on how much it would cost, says Ann Fandozzi, director of the company's product planning for front-wheel-drive vehicles. 
 For example, Ms. Fandozzi said, the team wanted to include a beverage cooler in the car because it knew that many young people eat and drink while driving. ''If you added that option at the end, it would be $500,'' she said. ''But when you have a clever engineer design it, so the air-conditioning vents through the glove box, you get a 'chill zone' as we call it, without hardly any added cost.''
 The Caliber team added a 115-volt outlet in the center armrest so that drivers can plug in appliances without having to plug adapters into the cigarette lighter. There are flip-down speakers in the rear lift gate, and the rechargeable light in the cargo area can be popped out and used as a flashlight. 
 Toyota doesn't depend solely on outsiders like Mr. Rado to create cooler versions of its Scion vehicles, which include the boxy xB and the little xA hatchback. The Scion team doubled the number of accessories that consumers could buy at the dealership. 
 But for many consumers, the real draw to these vehicles is how easily they change from a nicely outfitted little car into a high-performance bottle rocket. Michael Ma, 25, a chef in Los Angeles with aspirations to build car accessories, is reconstructing a Toyota Yaris, which retails for $11,050, to take to the SEMA show in November. He has replaced the car's 1.5-liter engine with a truck engine from a Toyota Tacoma. He's adding new bumpers and side panels to give the car a lower stance. His renderings of the car show cobalt blue headlights and a fierce-looking front grille. He says the Yaris reminds him of ''this big round egg on four legs that I can do anything to.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TUNED -- Christian Rado, above, with his ''secret-agent'' Scion at Old Bridge Township raceway in Englishtown, N.J. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); AUTO RACING (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Automobiles; Special Sections

ORGANIZATION: SPECIALTY EQUIPMENT MARKET ASSOCIATION (55%) Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co

PERSON: Fara Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



594 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Cars; LIFESAVERS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: The Station Wagon: Spacious and Efficient, But Not an Ego Trip 

BYLINE: By ERIC A. TAUB

 BODY:
AS disgruntled S.U.V. owners try to sell their gas-guzzling vehicles for more economical but equally roomy alternatives, one obvious choice will not be on most peoples' short list: station wagons. 
 Wagons, however, are some of the most space-efficient vehicles available, generally offering better fuel economy than sport-utility vehicles. ''A large wagon has similar total cargo capacity to a midsized S.U.V.,'' said Jesse Toprak, executive director of industry analysis for Edmunds.com, an automotive Web site.
Conjuring images of 1950's housewives dropping off their husbands for the 6:05 into Manhattan, the station wagon remains as desirable as bad breath. Yet today's wagons are a far cry from the behemoths of the past, clad in fake-wood paneling. 
 To shed their negative image, automakers now call them such names as Avant, SportCombi and Sportwagon. 
 ''To call it a station wagon is like naming your son Herkimer,'' said Dee Allen, General Motors' staff director for global product. 
 Wagons remain a strong vehicle of choice in Europe, where narrow streets and small parking spaces seem to call for practical decisions, although many wagons are smaller in Europe and preferable to minivans. 
 In the United States, however, the wagon-makeover campaign has been a bust. Whatever you call them, wagons account for a minuscule number of American sales. Wagon versions of sedans made by Audi, Ford, Mercedes-Benz, Saab, Volkswagen and others sell just a few thousand units a year each, despite their good gas mileage, carlike ride and large carrying capacities. 
 Rich Brekus, a product planning and strategy manager for BMW North America, said that wagon sales were in the doldrums because ''people remember the old Ford Country Squires with 400-pound lift gates and soft suspensions,'' a far cry, he added, from versions of his company's 3- and 5-series sedans. 
 Which is why General Motors no longer makes them in this country. ''Wagons were too practical,'' Mr. Allen said. ''People do not want to be seen in one. It lost its cachet.'' 
 Despite their ability to ford streams, ride above the crowd and take up loads of parking space, king-size S.U.V.'s as a group are often less-capable cargo carriers than wagons, as well as minivans and crossover vehicles. For example, Cadillac's Escalade S.U.V. has just 16.3 cubic feet of carrying space behind its third row of seats, about the same as the trunk space of many sedans. To increase space, the third row must be physically removed. 
 When it comes to space in cars, raw size really may not be that critical. How that space is used can be just as important. When professional organizations compare available cargo space between S.U.V.'s and station wagons, it is the sport-utility vehicle that often comes up short. 
 ''It is certainly true that wagons offer comparable space to S.U.V.'s,'' said Mike Dushane, the online editor for Car and Driver magazine. 
 Jared Gall, the assistant online editor for Car and Driver, contrasted the Escalade's limited cargo space to the new Honda Fit subcompact. Offering 41.9 cubic feet of volume with the rear seat down, the Fit also uses a variety of seat-folding options to maximize the space. ''I am 6 feet 7 inches, and I and my whole family could have more room in the Fit than in some S.U.V.'s,'' Mr. Gall said. 
 The reason, Mr. Gall and others said, is that while two vehicles may have equal cubic feet of cargo volume, one may use it less efficiently. If the car's wheel wells stick out into the interior, or the door opening is not particularly wide, carrying capacity is cut. 
 Audi's A3 hatchback has almost the same cargo capacity (54.6 cubic feet) as its larger A4 wagon (56 cubic feet) does. Volvo's V50 wagon has less cargo space (62.6 cubic feet) than the larger V70 (71.4), but taller objects can be carried in the V50 because it is almost three inches higher inside. 
 Jonathan Linkov, Consumer Reports' managing editor for automobiles, said the Infiniti FX and the Nissan Murano, both small S.U.V.'s, do not use their space well. ''Both these cars are midsized, but they have such curved backs that you cannot even get a small refrigerator in there,'' he said. 
 Because S.U.V.'s are tall, much of their cargo space may be found in height rather than the length of the vehicle, not too useful when you want to haul lumber or groceries. The VW Touareg, a tall S.U.V., actually has less usable storage space than the VW Passat wagon, Mr. Linkov said. 
 Unfortunately, it is not easy to find these things out. While manufacturers measure and report the passenger volume of their vehicles in the same way, cargo capacity can be measured any way a company wants. 
 The Society of Automotive Engineers has a standard that defines cargo capacity, but manufacturers are free to not use it, and even those who do may not bother to put the figures in their brochures or on their Web sites. 
 If a buyer can find the cargo volume, it may not reflect what is really available. The society's standard for cargo volume is measured in a manufacturer's base vehicle offering. If a customer then buys an upgraded model with an additional row of seats, the actual cargo volume may be less than the manufacturer reports. 
 Still, raw numbers, even if accurate, do not always translate into real-world experience. Which is why some carmakers use benchmarks to determine if their vehicles can carry enough stuff. 
 ''Golf bags are our signature item for the A6,'' said Filip Brabec, a product manager for Audi of America. ''All my executives have baby strollers. In our research and development area, you will find golf bags, strollers and boxes as we physically try to get them in to the A4 and A6 wagons.'' 
 When Honda developed the Fit (called the Jazz outside of North America), it set a 7-foot-10-inch surfboard as its benchmark item to carry in the car, a feat it accomplishes by having a front passenger seat that folds flat, said Christina Ra, Fit's product planner. The rear seats also fold out of the way, creating a 50-inch-tall space that can hold a bicycle. 
 Car and Driver writers measure real-world cargo capacity using three tools: beer cases, the maximum length of pipe that can be carried and the longest and widest piece of plywood that can fit in the rear. The combination gives editors a good idea how much cargo a vehicle can hold for many home improvement and moving projects. 
 For most peoples' needs, little is given up by switching from a standard or large S.U.V. to a wagon, crossover or smaller S.U.V. except, prestige and ego fulfillment. 
 And for people who must have a big vehicle to tow a boat, Mr. Linkov of Consumer Reports says: ''Rent a vehicle with a hitch once or twice a year.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ryan Heshka)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); SEDANS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (69%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Special Sections; Advertising and Marketing; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Eric A Taub

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



595 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Cars; SUBCOMPACTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Small-Car Nation 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
IS America ready to become a small-car nation?
 It may already be on the way. Despite the perception that Americans will cling to their big cars and trucks until the last drop of oil dries up, small cars are outselling sport-utility vehicles this year.
The reasons are erratic gasoline prices, which spiked above $3 a gallon twice during the last 13 months, and a new flock of European, Japanese and American cars that offer both impressive fuel economy as well as self-expression.
 Some, like the Nissan Versa, Toyota Yaris and Honda Fit, have gone on sale while more are headed to showrooms soon, like the latest version of the Chevrolet Aveo, built in Korea, and the second generation of the Mini Cooper, which is made in England by BMW. 
 Others are planned for later this decade, like the Smart car, an amusing sight on roads in Europe, Asia and Canada since the late 1990's. It is expected to come to the United States in 2008. 
 Less certain is when the market will be selling new subcompacts from the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group, which have been left out of the rush of new models for now. Ford, however, says it has one under development, while Chrysler is looking for a Chinese partner to produce one, since it says it cannot build a profitable small car in North America.
 In the meantime, customers are snapping up the cars that are already here.
 Ben Dupre, 37, of Roland, Iowa, took home his new gray Nissan Versa this summer as it rolled off a delivery truck. He decided several years ago to get rid of his Mercury Sable sedan, whose fuel use never topped 20 miles a gallon. 
 But he waited until foreign manufacturers brought out their latest models to get serious about switching. 
 Mr. Dupre, a technical writer, test-drove the Fit and the Yaris before buying a Versa, which he liked best among the three for its interior space, something that Nissan stresses in its Versa ads and an important point to Mr. Dupre, who is six feet tall and weighs about 300 pounds. ''I wasn't sure I'd be able to fit in a small car,'' he said. 
 But, he said, the Versa has been just as comfortable as his Sable, and the fuel economy is a third better. ''It's a great little car,'' he said.
 Because of buyers like Mr. Dupre, sales of small cars will easily be the highest this year since the beginning of this decade. Automakers are on track to sell about 2.5 million small cars in 2006, equal to about 15 percent of the car market, or 1.5 percentage points more than they sold in 2005.
 By comparison, only about 2.3 million S.U.V.'s are expected to be sold this year, about 14 percent of the market. That is well off their peak of 2.8 million vehicles in 2002, when they had 18 percent of American car and truck sales, says Autodata, an industry statistics firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
 Both industry executives and analysts expect small car sales to grow. 
 High gas prices have prompted Americans to ''finally step back and wake up,'' said Michael Ganal, the BMW board member who is in charge of the Mini.
 ''There is a sustained interest in small cars in a way that there has not been since the early 1970's,'' said Karl Brauer, editor in chief of Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers car-buying advice.
 Back then, small cars were nicknamed econoboxes. Many looked like roller skates with a roof and doors or cheese boxes with wheels. By contrast, the newest models show imagination. The Yaris and the Fit have a round, spunky styling that is more often found outside the United States. 
 And if the Paris Motor Show was any indication, small-car designs are going to become even more adventurous.
 Both Renault, with a concept version of its tiny Twingo, and Volvo, with the C30 coupe, came up with a new rear-end look that some are calling ''big hips.'' The design slopes from a narrow roof down a hatchback to a wide body over the wheels, creating an illusion of more space inside.
 The C30 is headed for the United States soon, and the Twingo style could show up on a small car built by Nissan, the partner company to Renault. 
 Those cars reflect today's small-car market: far different from what it has been. 
 In the 70's and early 80's, buyers bought small cars out of desperation over high gas prices and long lines at the gas station. Meanwhile, the government's fuel economy regulations, established in 1974, meant that automakers had to sell small cars to offset their gas guzzlers or face penalties.
 Japanese and German automakers capitalized on the situation in the United States by importing cars that were already selling in their home markets. Their dealers could demand sticker price and sometimes more for fuel-efficient cars like the Toyota Tercel and Volkswagen Rabbit.
 Detroit's best efforts were cars like the Chevrolet Chevette, Dodge Omni and Ford Fiesta, which seemed small enough to fit in the trunks of the big Chevys, Chryslers and Cadillacs of the 50's.
 Their reputation for poor quality -- coupled with some real dogs like the Yugo, from Yugoslavia -- was enough to give small cars a bad name for the rest of the century.
 By the 90's, with gas prices stable and fuel in ample supply, manufacturers turned their attention to S.U.V.'s, pickup trucks and minivans.
 While Toyota still tried with its no-frills Echo, neither Nissan nor Honda was selling a lot of subcompacts. One exception was the Korean Hyundai, which was attracting buyers both with cars priced under $10,000, by now a rarity in the industry, and a 10-year, 100,000-mile warranty.
 At that time, ''small was identical to cheap,'' said Dieter Zetsche, the chief executive at DaimlerChrysler and formerly the head of Chrysler. ''The reason you bought a small car was that you could not afford to buy bigger.''
 The situation began to shift early this decade, when gas prices became more erratic, shooting above $6 in parts of the world and above $3 in California, which also experienced fuel shortages in 2002.
 Toyota, Honda and Nissan developed new small cars for Europe and Asia, while G.M. bought a controlling interest in the Korean Daewoo. When gasoline prices jumped after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, and again in 2006, all those companies were ready with subcompacts.
 The resurgence of small cars poses a problem for Detroit automakers. Their economics for almost two decades have been built on sales of big vehicles, whose profits trounce those of small cars. 
 A full-size S.U.V., for example, earns a profit, before expenses, of nearly $9,000, more than 20 times the $400 that Detroit companies earn on the sale of each subcompact, says CNW Market Research of Bandon, Ore.
 It costs more than that profit to bring foreign small cars up to American emissions and safety standards -- a process the car companies call federalizing. Nissan is spending about $600 a car to federalize the Versa, say people with direct knowledge of the automaker's product development.
 But companies face another issue: subcompacts generally sell for about 25 percent more in Europe and Asia than they do in the United States. So to put their cars on sale in America, automakers must cut the price and add cost. 
 Given the difficulty in making money on basic small cars, some manufacturers have responded to an emerging market that analysts call ''personality cars'' -- those with unique driving character that can be customized with everything from the roof color to the wheel size. 
 This is where the Mini fits in. And this is the place, analysts say, where automakers stand the best chance to make an impact and money.
 Mr. Brauer voiced frustration that Detroit carmakers have failed for the most part to introduce imaginative small models, even though they have dabbled in them with their concept cars, like the gutsy Dodge Hornet, which Chrysler displayed at the Geneva Motor Show in March.
 ''The Hornet needs to come out yesterday,'' Mr. Brauer said. ''But they'll sit back on what they know and miss out on another market niche.''


Market share

SMALL CARS
'00: 14.3%
'01: 14.1
'02: 13.7
'03: 13.4
'04: 13.0
'05: 13.5
'06: 15.0

MIDSIZE CARS
'00: 24.5
'01: 23.5
'02: 22.9
'03: 21.2
'04: 20.7
'05: 21.1
'06: 22.3

LARGE CARS
'00: 3.6
'01: 3.2
'02: 2.8
'03: 2.5
'04: 1.8
'05: 1.3
'06: 1.4

LUXURY CARS
'00: 8.5
'01: 8.3
'02: 8.6
'03: 8.6
'04: 8.9
'05: 9.2
'06: 8.8

PICKUP TRUCKS
'00: 18.7
'01: 18.9
'02: 18.2
'03: 18.7
'04: 19.0
'05: 19.0
'06: 17.4

S.U.V.'S
'00: 17.1
'01: 17.2
'02: 18.0
'03: 18.0
'04: 17.3
'05: 15.5
'06: 14.1

CROSSOVERS
'00: 3.1
'01: 5.8
'02: 7.0
'03: 9.2
'04: 10.8
'05: 11.8
'06: 12.8

VANS
'00: 10.3
'01: 8.9
'02: 8.7
'03: 8.4
'04: 8.6
'05: 8.6
'06: 8.2

Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.
Through September

(Source by MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. G12)

GRAPHIC: Photos: BACK IN STYLE -- Erratic gas prices and stylish models from European, Japanese and American carmakers are contributing to a resurgence for subcompacts. Small cars are expected to overtake S.U.V.'s in U.S. sales this year. (Illustration by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. G1)
IT'S NO CHEVETTE -- Far from the ''econoboxes'' of the 70's and 80's, today's subcompacts show imagination, as evidenced by the rise of ''personality cars'' like the Mini Cooper, shown on a production line in Oxford, England. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
 TURNING HEADS -- Many subcompacts have adopted European styling, like the Toyota Yaris, left, and the Smart car, which is expected to come to the United States in 2008. (Photographs by Richard Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. G12)Chart: ''A Growing Market for Small Cars''Automakers are on track to sell about 2.5 million small cars this year, equal to about 15 percent of the car market, or 1.5 percentage points more than they sold in 2005.Graph shows CARS (Sales) since 2000, for:MIDSIZELARGELUXURYSMALLGraph shows TRUCKS AND S.U.V.'S (Sales) since 2000, for:PICKUPSS.U.V.'SCROSSOVERSVANS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); SEDANS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (71%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Automobiles; Special Sections

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (72%); ASIA (56%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



596 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Cars; ALTERNATIVES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Skeptical Police Warm To 'Clean' Fleets

BYLINE: By TERRY SCHWADRON

 BODY:
WHEN the New York Police Department recently bought 15 Dodge Chargers, most with V-8 Hemi engines, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said that the department was diversifying its fleet. Officials had talked about speed, performance and availability, not about fuel economy or the environment.
 But when city and state agencies in New York buy buses, cars and trucks, they follow laws or advisory rules that comply with federal regulations advocating use of alternative fuels. City agencies, for example, use about 2,400 compressed natural gas or hybrid-electric cars and light trucks. 
Indeed, among 17 million cars sold annually, about 20 percent are sold to private and public fleets, with government purchases representing a large proportion. The reasons vary, from expectations of fuel savings to environmental concerns to requirements to follow laws. In all, 35 state governments are now using hybrid cars in their fleets.
 Mark Simon, director of the alternative fuel vehicle program for the New York City Department of Transportation, said that the city required buying the cleanest available vehicle in each class. ''It was an environmental initiative when it started'' more than a decade ago, he said, but now the city says it is just following the law (police, fire and ambulance vehicles are exempt). 
 Among police agencies, places as diverse as Seattle and Martin and Marion Counties in Florida are buying hybrid cars. Windell T. Mitchell, the director of fleet administration for King County in Washington State, said that police had been skeptical, but warmed to the cars after testing them. Last year, Mr. Mitchell bought 140 Toyota Prius police cars. A prime reason: the county's policy of buying ''green'' when it can do so. 
 Police Fleet Manager, an industry magazine, has featured stories about hybrids, but the articles acknowledge that local police agencies seem resistant. ''Fleet managers I talk with say police departments will never be for these kind of hybrid cars. There is a mystique that they need big guns and powerful cars,'' said Scot Case, an environmental consultant in Reading, Pa. Still, Wyatt Earp, the director of fleet management for Marion County, Fla., said in the magazine that fuel-cost factors made his 45 hybrid car purchases a year a sensible choice. 
 Buying hybrids and alternative fuel vehicles for public and private fleets is a growing trend as gas prices stay high and technology allows a wider choice of vehicles. 
 The federal government and many state, city and local governments have regulations that require or recommend fuel-conscious purchases. Gov. George E. Pataki of New York issued an executive order in 2001 mandating that state agencies ''procure increasing percentages of alternative-fuel vehicles, including hybrid-electric vehicles.'' 
 New York City's transit agencies have spent hundreds of millions of dollars to convert older buses or buy new buses that comply with environmental standards. Despite the higher price for hybrids, the story is much the same in other cities.
 But some expectations of fuel savings have been tempered with experience. In 2004, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer examined fuel use after local agencies bought diesel-electric buses, and determined that while emissions had been reduced, the fuel savings had not been as much as expected.
 A variety of technologies are being applied to trucks. The Oshkosh Truck Corporation in Wisconsin is developing hybrid power systems for garbage trucks. These systems use diesel engines to power electric generators that drive the wheels. 
 Mack Trucks, in Allentown, Pa., is developing a hybrid truck using a gas-fueled engine to power a generator. 
 On the urban front, New York and San Francisco have added hybrid-electric taxicabs. And in Los Angeles, New York, Boston and San Francisco, a company called OZOcar offers Toyota Prius limousine service.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Harry Campbell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); FLEET MANAGEMENT (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (71%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); TRENDS (60%) Automobiles; Special Sections; Police; Law and Legislation; Law and Legislation; States (US); Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency 

PERSON: Terry Schwadron

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); READING, PA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



597 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Cars; MAKEOVER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Big Guy Tries Tiny Chassis, Taking Jabs Lightly 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
DRIVING a Smart car is like walking a puppy. You can't go five feet without someone stopping you to ogle it. 
 I wasn't prepared for this as I drove around Manhattan in the Smart Fortwo (get it?) coupe, one of three small cars I was evaluating for driving in the city. All the attention practically made me forget those two little words I had always associated with the Smart: death trap.
''You'd be crazy to drive one of those around New York,'' a colleague said to me as I was leaving my office to pick up the car. ''Wear a helmet.'' 
 Picturing my Smart, which is built by DaimlerChrysler, among hulking Peterbilt trucks, meandering city buses and manic cab drivers who rule the streets, I asked the Daimler representative if I could expect to survive a crash.
 She ticked off safety features like six air bags, front and rear crumple zones and seats that are designed with extra cushioning to help absorb impact. Then she showed me a crash-test video of the Smart car running head-on into a Mercedes E-class sedan at 30 miles an hour. What little there was of Fortwo's front end was pulverized, but the passenger cabin remained largely intact. That is because the cabin (Smart calls it a safety cell) is surrounded by three layers of steel.
 So I put my faith in German safety engineering and put aside my anxieties, beginning the most unexpectedly entertaining driving experience I've had in my life. 
 First, and most unexpectedly, the Smart doesn't feel cramped. At slightly more than 8 feet long and 5 feet in both height and width, it makes the 12-foot-long Mini Cooper look like a Cadillac.
 I'm 6-foot-2, and my legs weren't cramped in the least, even with the driver's seat back halfway. Smart does a good job of fooling your senses to make you feel less boxed in than you actually are. A glass roof virtually eliminates any sense of claustrophobia. 
 Driving the Smart certainly didn't feel like driving a car that is four feet shorter than the smallest cars on the American market. That gave me a false sense of security as I zipped around in traffic, cutting off taxis and trucks with ease. No one even cursed at me or honked because all the other drivers were busy gawking.
 You can squeeze the Smart into spaces that can fit only a bicycle. It felt small only when I was parking or staring down pedestrians. They are not afraid of this little car.
 To test the reactions from New Yorkers, a friend and I drove it from Upper Manhattan to Chinatown, over the Brooklyn Bridge and into Park Slope, then back. People rolled down car windows to take pictures with their cellphones. Some pointed and laughed. A police officer told me to ''get a real car.'' 
 The questions never stopped.
 Is it real? Yes. But it won't be on sale in the United States until early 2008.
 How much does it cost? Smart hasn't determined pricing yet, but in Canada the Fortwo starts at about $15,000.
 Can you take that on the highway? Sure. But don't expect a smooth ride. It felt as if the bumps were going to send it airborne.
 Do you have to wind up the motor? No. The three-cylinder engine took unleaded gas and got an average of 40 miles a gallon.

Toyota Yaris Liftback
 Two weekends later, I was behind the wheel of a fire-engine red 2007 Toyota Yaris Liftback. Even with the retina-searing paint job and the Yaris's oval architecture, stares and questions were hard to come by. Compared with the celebrity status of driving the Smart, the anonymity of driving the Yaris was ego deflating. 
 I drove from 23rd Street near Fifth Avenue to the Upper East Side before I got a good, solid stare. My vanity finally compelled me to inch the nose of the Yaris into a crosswalk so New Yorkers would have no choice but to acknowledge my presence. Finally, the Yaris and I got an admiring look.
 The driving felt light and nimble. Maneuvering it in city traffic was a cinch. The fuel economy was excellent: 34 miles a gallon in the city, 39 on the highway. A trip over the Triborough Bridge and on Interstate 278 through Queens didn't make me feel as if I were at the mercy of the bigger vehicles.
 The Yaris has another advantage over the Smart: you can walk into a Toyota dealer and actually buy one. The two-door liftback starts at around $11,000. But the version I drove, with features like antilock brakes, power locks and windows, was $15,290.

Audi A3
 Next on my list was the 2007 Audi A3. As far as looks go, this was by far the most elegant of the three cars. It was also the fastest (with a 3.2-liter, 250-horsepower V6), the smoothest-riding, the most gadget-loaded and -- of course -- the most expensive. The sticker price was $42,600, which included a navigation system, satellite radio, a leather interior and four-wheel drive. It was also the biggest guzzler, getting 21 miles a gallon in the city and 27 on the highway. If the Smart Fortwo is at the practical and economical end of German engineering, the A3 is somewhere on the other end. It is an indulgence, but its luxury is not excessive. 
 Take the sport suspension. I let my test-driving companion take the wheel for a few blocks while I tinkered with the satellite radio and navigation device. He caught a stretch of green lights. A crater the width of an entire lane appeared before us. We looked at each other and winced, expecting to hit the ceiling. It barely felt like a bump.
 All I could think was: ''Wow. That crater would have swallowed the Smart.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ZIPPY -- At 6-foot-2, a reporter managed comfortably in the Smart. A glass roof makes the car feel larger. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 IS IT REAL? New Yorkers weren't afraid of the Smart. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. G13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (79%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); SEDANS (74%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); ENGINEERING (69%) Automobiles; Special Sections

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Audi Ag; Daimlerchrysler Ag

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



598 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Owners And Union Complete 5-Year Deal

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Oct. 24 

 BODY:
Shortly before peace broke out on baseball's labor front Tuesday, Tigers Manager Jim Leyland was asked for his reaction to the new collective-bargaining agreement, which will prevent work stoppages until at least the end of the 2011 season.
 ''You always have a better relationship when both sides are making money,'' Leyland said. ''When the owner is happy and putting a little in his pocket, and the player is happy and putting a little in his pocket -- in our case, I guess, in our game, a lot in both pockets -- that usually has a tendency to make people feel real good.'' 
After Leyland spoke, and shortly before Detroit played St. Louis in Game 3 of the World Series, Commissioner Bud Selig and the executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Association, Donald Fehr, announced the new deal. It has some alterations to free-agency dates and luxury-tax thresholds, but it contains no major changes to any segment, including drug testing, which will continue.
 ''We are in the midst of baseball's golden age,'' said Selig, who said the sport produced $5.2 billion in revenue this season, more than quadrupling its revenue of 14 years ago. He added, ''The economics of the sport have improved dramatically.''
 The agreement was especially noteworthy in that it was the first one in more than 34 years reached without a work stoppage or the imminent threat of one. Tuesday's announcement came 12 years after baseball canceled its World Series during a strike. The current agreement, in place for four years and due to expire Dec. 19, was negotiated amid threats of a strike in August 2002. 
 The new agreement must be ratified by each side.
 Selig and Fehr sat at a table among eight other negotiators before a crowded audience of news media members beneath the stands at Busch Stadium. Although Major League Baseball generally does not make major announcements during its postseason, this autumn has been an exception, with the hiring of Lou Piniella as manager of the Chicago Cubs preceding this.
 Fehr said there had been ''a lot of acrimony and a lot of disputes'' during the 29 years 3 months in which he has worked on the business end of baseball.
 ''I'm not really sure I believed it could happen,'' Fehr said of the smooth negotiations, which were conducted with little public notice. 
 Fehr said at least 100 players had input. ''The approach to bargaining was very pragmatic, very workmanlike,'' he said.
 Baseball remains the only one of the four major sports without a salary cap, in some form. But it will continue its luxury tax -- formally called a competitive balance tax -- which penalizes teams with total payrolls that surpass a set level.
 Under the old agreement, the thresholds that triggered the tax were set at $117 million in the first year and increased to $136.5 million this season. Under the new agreement, the thresholds were reset to $148 million in 2007, $155 million in 2008, $162 million in 2009, $170 million in 2010 and $178 million in 2011.
 Fehr said that even without a salary cap, the competitive balance in baseball was excellent and that this year's champion would be the seventh different team to win the Series in seven seasons.
 Among other highlights of the agreement:
 The minimum salary will be $380,000 in 2007 and will increase to $400,000 in 2009; the current minimum is $327,000.
 The ''tender date'' for a team to offer a contract to a player or risk losing him to free agency will be Dec. 12 instead of Dec. 20; Selig and Fehr each said this would allow bargaining for players without contracts to take place well before the holiday season.
 Both sides agreed to eliminate deadline dates for signing free agents; they said it would allow teams more freedom to build their rosters as they wished.
 The World Series home-field advantage will go to the team whose league wins the All-Star Game that season; until now, the practice was being done on an experimental basis.
 There will be no contraction of the number of teams, a threat Selig had made in recent years.
 Arizona Diamondbacks infielder Craig Counsell said at the news conference: ''Labor peace is good for the game. This time around, the atmosphere was completely different.''
 Selig added: ''This is a wonderful day. This is a wonderful story.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EXCISE TAX (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%) Baseball; Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%) Major League Baseball Players Assn

PERSON: Joe Lapointe

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



599 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: To Lower Costs, Hospitals Try Free Basic Care for Uninsured

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
Unable to afford health insurance, Dee Dee Dodd had for years been mixing occasional doctor visits with clumsy efforts to self-manage her insulin-dependent diabetes, getting sicker all the while. 
 In one 18-month period, Ms. Dodd, 38, was rushed almost monthly to the emergency room, spent weeks in the intensive care unit and accumulated more than $191,000 in unpaid bills.
That is when nurses at the Seton Family of Hospitals tagged her as a ''frequent flier,'' a repeat visitor whose ailments -- and expenses -- might be curbed with more regular care. The hospital began offering her free primary care through its charity program. 
 With the number of uninsured Americans reaching a record 46.6 million last year, up by 7 million from 2000, Seton is one of a small number of hospital systems around the country to have done the math and acted on it. Officials decided that for many patients with chronic diseases, it would be cheaper to provide free preventive care than to absorb the high cost of repeated emergencies. 
 With patients like Ms. Dodd, ''they can have better care and we can reduce the costs for the hospital,'' said Dr. Melissa Smith, medical director of three community health centers run by Seton, a Roman Catholic hospital network that uses its profits and donations to provide nearly free care to 5,000 of the working poor. Over the last 18 months, Ms. Dodd's health has improved, and her medical bills have been cut nearly in half. 
 Reaching out to uninsured patients, especially those with chronic conditions like diabetes, hypertension, congestive heart failure or asthma, is a recent tactic of ''a handful of visionary hospital systems around the country,'' said Karen Davis, president of the Commonwealth Fund, a foundation in New York that concentrates on health care. These institutions are searching for ways to fend off disease and large debts by bringing uninsured visitors into continuing basic care.
 The public hospital systems in New York and Denver, for example, have both worked to steer uninsured patients to community clinics, charging modest fees, if any. New York's public system, the Health and Hospitals Corporation, has assigned some 240,000 uninsured patients to personal primary care doctors. A computerized system tracks those with chronic conditions, and when necessary, social workers contact patients to make sure they get checkups and follow medical advice. 
 ''For most preventive efforts there is an upfront expense,'' said Alan D. Aviles, president of the corporation. ''But over the long term it saves money.'' 
 Denver's public system, Denver Health, has 41,000 uninsured patients enrolled in its clinics. Officials there calculate that for every dollar they spend on prenatal care for uninsured women, they save more than $7 in newborn and child care. 
 The ''safety net'' plan of the Seton system in Central Texas accepts people making 150 percent to 250 percent of the federal poverty limit and has resources to support 5,000 patients. (People below the poverty line, which is $13,200 a year for a family of two in the contiguous states, can obtain care through the public clinic system.) 
 Officials scrutinize the records of plan members to see who is still overusing the emergency room or being repeatedly hospitalized -- these high-cost patients total some 40 each month -- then assign them caseworkers to help improve care and bring down costs. 
 A special effort to educate 631 asthma patients saved the plan $475,000 in one year, Seton officials said. 
 In a more unusual step, Seton officials also look for frequent emergency room users who do not qualify for the hospital's charity plan because they live in a different county, like Ms. Dodd, or have incomes just above the threshold. In a dozen cases so far, all involving diabetics, a committee has judged that it makes financial sense to bring these people into the charity plan anyway and provide intensive support. 
 Other answers to the insurance crisis are being tried around the country, including the creation of subsidized, bare-bones policies for small businesses. Vermont, Maine and especially Massachusetts are using combinations of state and federal money and employer mandates to extend insurance. 
 Still, only a fraction of the uninsured, in Central Texas and in most other states, are benefiting. 
 ''All these local efforts are commendable, but they are like sticking fingers in the dikes,'' Ms. Davis of the Commonwealth Fund said, noting that the larger trend was hospitals' seeking to avoid the uninsured.
 Nowhere is the problem more acute than in Texas, where nearly a quarter of the population is uninsured, the nation's highest rate. Small businesses here are unlikely to offer benefits, and the state government's unusually stringent restrictions on Medicaid for adults leave many of the working poor at risk. 
 Even without counting the large immigrant population, Texas has the country's highest share of uninsured, at 21 percent, according to the Center for Public Policy Priorities in Austin. 
 ''All the hospitals here provide some uncompensated care, and they are eating it and passing the costs along to the payers,'' said Patricia A. Young Brown, president of the Travis County Healthcare District, which was set up last year to oversee care of the indigent through public clinics, drawing on property taxes to pay. 
 ''So insurance rates go up, and then more businesses drop insurance,'' Ms. Young Brown continued, describing a trend unfolding nationwide. ''It's hard to see where it will end. We hear a cry for national and state leadership.'' 
 The private People's Community Clinic, supported in part by the St. David's Hospital system, gives primary care to 11,000 people in Austin who are uninsured or on Medicaid and related programs. 
 ''I think we are a good Band-Aid for those able to come to our clinic,'' Regina Rogoff, director of the clinic, said. ''But it's not a solution to have such a ragtag, makeshift system.''
 Austin hospitals and charity clinics have also joined in a pioneering data-sharing system to track visits by uninsured patients and fight unnecessary use of the emergency room. But rural counties in Texas offer little aid, and rural residents with serious maladies end up traveling to urban emergency rooms. 
 The current patchwork also pits different levels of government against each other. 
 Natavidad Martinez, 51, who used to work as a bookbinder for $7 an hour and never had insurance, has found herself in a bureaucratic nightmare. 
 In March 2005, Ms. Martinez, a Seton patient, was found to have liver cancer. She was put on Medicaid, applied for federal disability and was put in line for a liver transplant, without which, doctors said, she had six months to two years to live. Through the summer of 2005, she made the hour-and-a-half drive from her home to San Antonio for preparatory tests. 
 That August, she was awarded disability payments of $561 a month. But because her income surpassed the $535 limit for Medicaid in her circumstances, she said, she was told by the state that her coverage had ended, and the hospital said it could not proceed with a transplant. 
 ''I asked Social Security if they couldn't just reduce my payments by $30 a month,'' she said, ''but they said it doesn't work that way.'' 
 In another twist, by federal rules, she will qualify for Medicare two years after the initial finding of disability. She awaits the start of Medicare coverage next March, when she can rejoin the transplant line. 
 In Texas, as throughout the country, the coverage of poor children through Medicaid and related programs expanded greatly over the last decade. But a majority of states do not provide Medicaid to parents making even poverty-line incomes, and Texas is one of the least generous: here, a working parent of two does not qualify for coverage if he or she makes more than $3,696 in a year, leaving people like Ms. Dodd to fend for themselves. 
 Ms. Dodd, who worked as a dental assistant, is married to a truck driver, has four children and lives on a country road in Hays County, south of Austin. Ten years ago, after her weight fell to 82 pounds, she learned that she was a ''brittle diabetic,'' subject to rapid and dangerous changes in blood sugar. She saw a doctor only sporadically because visits cost $120 -- money she did not have.
 ''I had to stop working, so then I couldn't afford to go to the doctor, and then I had to go to the emergency room,'' Ms. Dodd said. 
 She was having repeated episodes of ketoacidosis, a chemical imbalance that sometimes put her into life-threatening comas. Years of poor care had weakened her and led to side effects like esophogeal ulcers that could probably have been prevented, her doctors said.
 Ms. Dodd still has problems, but the use of a $3,200 insulin pump paid for by Seton, which automatically adjusts her insulin levels, along with access to an endocrinologist and home counseling have reduced their severity. Her care in the last 18 months has cost Seton $104,697, far below the $191,277 for the previous period. More important, the later figures include less hospital time and more medicines and expert advice. 
 ''The money we save,'' Dr. Smith, of Seton, said, ''money that is not hemorrhaging through the I.C.U., is money we can do so much more with to help her upfront.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Economix column in Business Day on Oct. 18 that compared medical insurance in the United States to other countries referred incorrectly to the 47 million uninsured people in the United States. The figure includes noncitizens; they are not all Americans. (The error was repeated in a front-page article yesterday about hospitals that offer free basic care to the uninsured.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Melissa Smith of Seton hospitals, left, with Dee Dee Dodd, who has diabetes but no insurance. (Photo by Erich Schlegel for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Natavidad Martinez, who has liver cancer, was awarded disability payments but lost her Medicaid coverage.
 With preventive efforts, the cost of care for Dee Dee Dodd, a diabetic, was cut nearly in half in 18 months. (Photographs by Erich Schlegel for The New York Times)(pg. A16)Chart/Map: ''On Their Own''Percentage of people without health insurance coverage, by state.Two-year averages, 2004-5MINN.Lowest: 8.7%TEX.Highest: 24.5%National average: 15.6%Map of the United States highlighting percentage of people without health insurance coverage, by state, for 2004 and 2005.(Source by Census Bureau)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RELIGION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DIABETES (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); NURSES & NURSING (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CHARITIES (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); HEART DISEASE (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); HYPERTENSION (63%); CHILDREN (61%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; Children and Youth; Medicine and Health; Emergency Medical Treatment; Asthma; Preventive Medicine ; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Seton Family of Hospitals; Commonwealth Fund; Health and Hospitals Corp (NYC); Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Erik Eckholm; Melissa (Dr) Smith; Dee Dee Dodd; Karen Davis

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Austin (Tex); Texas; New York City; Denver (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



600 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Our State of Desperation in Iraq

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Trying to Contain the Iraq Disaster'' (editorial, Oct. 24) advocates firing Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld; no permanent American military bases in Iraq; Iraqi reconciliation talks; increased financial aid; an increase in American troops to stabilize Baghdad; and increasing the dialogue with Syria and Iran.
 But increasing financial aid will result only in more guns and bombs in the wrong hands, since money is fungible and there is no real government in Iraq. 
Adding more American troops will just result in more American casualties. That tactic did not work in Vietnam, and it will not work in Iraq.
 Common sense dictates that we exit Iraq immediately. We cannot undo the Bush administration's mistakes, and we should not sacrifice even one more American life for the God-forsaken place known as Iraq. 

Timothy Bal
Belle Mead, N.J., Oct. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Your editorial offers excellent advice. 
 One of the biggest barriers to successfully achieving stability in Iraq is that extremist Shiite and Sunni factions have been at each other for centuries. It is hard to believe that the White House and Defense Department planners either overlooked or simply failed to properly assess this fact.
 This impediment cannot be solved by the United States or the United Nations. It can be solved only by Muslim leaders, and right now, that does not seem to be in the cards. 
 Yes, we should not leave without helping to clean up some of our mess, but we should act quickly, and strongly encourage and help enable the reconciliations that are essential for a unified and safe Iraq.
 Regardless, as you note, Iraq will remain a terrible stain on America's international reputation for a long time, perhaps forever.

Waddell Robey
Camp Hill, Pa., Oct. 24, 2006

The writer is managing director of the Riverside Advocacy Center, a human rights and peace-building lobbying group.

To the Editor:
 Your editorial about what we should do next in Iraq seems to suggest that even though ''the odds are very long,'' we can still somehow set things right. 
 We need to admit defeat and the horrible mistake our anger about 9/11 led us to commit. 
 The fact is that our completely inept and increasingly corrupt occupation creates a target for further anger and violence. 
 We should also recognize that Iraq would have eventually had to deal with a post-Saddam Hussein society, and that transition would have been bloody in any case. 
 It should be obvious that we only do damage by staying in Iraq with an offensive military completely unequipped to do the police work that lawlessness requires.
 Plus, the Iraq invasion has undermined our leadership everywhere in the world; obstinacy gains us no respect. Worse, the continued diversion of Iraq postpones the urgent reforms necessary to keep our own country from collapsing further toward corruption, incompetence, religious fanaticism and economic sclerosis.

Hendrik Van den Berg
Lincoln, Neb., Oct. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 I applaud you for a serious treatment of our last best hope to extricate ourselves from the mess that is Iraq (editorial, Oct. 24).
 Unfortunately, our executive branch seems incapable of truthful reflection. Any sort of truthful admission of error is still light-years away. At every turn, this administration has resisted with scorn the well-meaning advice of friend and foe alike.
 It is a wishful fantasy that this administration would be willing to listen to reason, do the right thing, admit error, fire Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, give up its dreams of a utopian future and buckle down and do the hard work of reconciliation. 
 These officials will not change because there has been no pressure on them to do so from a fawning press that won't face the truth, a deluded public that thinks ''staying the course'' and whatever other slogan lobbed at it is a ''plan,'' and a supine Congress that is busy feathering individual nests and attacking one another.
 What will be the wake-up call for this country? 
 The real world is the world of compromise and peacemaking. I hope that there is a way out of our heartbreaking state of division and loss. I hope that the country I love is still capable of waking up from this nightmare and of restoring reason and sanity. 

Elizabeth Scupham
Atlanta, Oct. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Bush, Facing Dissent on Iraq, Jettisons 'Stay the Course' '' (news article, Oct. 24):
 When the slogan ''a reformer with results'' was not effective, it was changed to ''a compassionate conservative.''
 Similarly, when the attempt to dismantle Social Security by creating ''private accounts'' did not play well, they were renamed ''personal accounts.'' 
 Now President Bush has changed his wording on Iraq from ''stay the course'' to ''win by adapting.'' 
 The only adaptability this administration is adept at is changing slogans. Whether it is Iraq, the economy, energy or the environment, its ideologically driven policy of catering to its corporate and elite donors never changes.

Fred Polvere
Yonkers, Oct. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 It is heartening to hear that the White House is moving away from the simplistic slogan ''stay the course'' for strategy in Iraq. But sadly, rather than admitting that this approach was a mistake, President Bush has denied the past, saying (in an interview last Sunday with George Stephanopoulos) ''we've never been 'stay the course.' ''
 How can we trust a man who can't be forthcoming about something as simple and well documented as that?

John Forrest Tomlinson
New York, Oct. 24, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Grady White)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); RELIGION (88%); LOBBYING (78%); TERRORISM (76%); WRITERS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); CORRUPTION (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Islam

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%) Riverside Advocacy Center

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Timothy Bal; Waddell Robey; Hendrik Van den Berg; Elizabeth Scupham; George W (Pres) Bush; Fred Polvere; John Forrest Tomlinson

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); VIET NAM (72%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

 
