

601 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 812 words

PERSON: Ardis James 

HEADLINE: Ardis James Dies at 85; Established Center on Quilts

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Ardis Butler James, a Nebraska-born philanthropist who with her husband established what is now the largest public collection of quilts in the world, encompassing humbly elegant bed coverings by anonymous 18th-century hands and avant-garde wall hangings by celebrated 21st-century artists, died on July 7 in Stamford, Conn. She was 85.
The cause was complications of a neurological disorder, her daughter, Catherine James Paglia, said. Mrs. James, who had lived most recently in Stamford, was a longtime resident of Chappaqua, N.Y. 
Mrs. James and her husband, Robert, started the International Quilt Study Center & Museum at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln, in 1997. Begun with a donation of nearly a thousand quilts -- then valued at more than $6 million -- from the couple's personal collection, it is today home to more than 3,500 quilts spanning three centuries and two dozen countries.
The center, which presents regular public exhibitions, has occupied a specially commissioned building, endowed in no small part by the Jameses, since 2008. Designed by the New York architectural firm Robert A. M. Stern, it has a curving facade of segmented glass panels that appear stitched together like the patches of a quilt.
In collaboration with the center, the university offers the only academic quilt-studies program in the world. There, students can earn master's and doctoral degrees centering on the social history, economics, aesthetics and technology of quilt making.
The focal point of the center's eight major collections is the Ardis and Robert James Collection of Antique and Contemporary Quilts. Now comprising nearly 1,100 items, it is noteworthy for its comprehensiveness.
''They tried to create a collection that reflected the entire gamut of quilt-making traditions,'' Patricia Cox Crews, the Willa Cather professor of textiles at the university and the quilt center's director, said on Thursday. ''Some people have collected 19th-century American, others have collected only studio-art quilts, others may have collected the quilts of India and Pakistan, but theirs reflected the entire tradition.''
America is richly represented in the James collection; to search its catalog, quiltstudy.org/collections/search.html, is to be blissfully awash in the names of traditional quilt patterns that -- with their allusions to faith, family, fighting and trade -- are a microcosm of the early nation: Delectable Mountains and Drunkard's Path, Log Cabin and Mariner's Compass, Whig Rose and Burgoyne Surrounded.
It is also to be awash in a phrase that echoes hauntingly in the descriptions of 18th-, 19th- and early-20th-century quilts: ''Maker unknown.'' For thus, to the margins of history, was women's work consigned.
Then, in the late 20th century, the studio art-quilt movement emerged. Suddenly women (and, increasingly, men) were making quilts not simply as utilitarian textiles but as vibrant pieces of modern art, meant for the gallery wall as well as the bedroom -- and being credited by name to boot.
The Jameses were among the first people to collect these quilts in quantity, and the center includes work they acquired by prominent contemporary quilt makers like Nancy Crow, Faith Ringgold, Susan Shie and Michael James, who is now the Ardis James professor of textiles, clothing and design at Nebraska.
Ardis Maree Butler was born in Lincoln and reared in Omaha. Her mother was a quilter, as was she. After an early marriage that ended in divorce, she married Robert G. James in 1949. Mr. James became an oil company executive and real estate developer, and the couple settled in Chappaqua.
Mrs. James had long been a fabric addict, an affliction most commonly seen in women and not universally understood by men. She was fortunate: Once, offered a fur coat by her husband, she chose a sewing machine instead and he did not demur. (A friend of hers, by contrast, had to spirit her fabric purchases home in a grocery bag, concealed beneath a mound of potatoes.)
With several fellow travelers, Mrs. James opened a fabric shop, Threadneedle House, in Chappaqua in the 1960s.
The Jameses began collecting quilts in the late 1970s. Their first purchase was a pink, white and green Mariner's Compass, for which they paid $100. Before long, their house was draped in quilts. Soon afterward, they had to build an extension.
Besides her husband and daughter, Mrs. James is survived by a son, Ralph, and five grandchildren. Another son, Robert G. Jr., died in 1976.
For Mrs. James, the hypnotic pull of quilts lay in their tangible links to the past, to the land, to makers known and unknown.
''Almost everything in our lives can be disposable if we want, and I'm not against paper plates, but there may be need of an anchor as well,'' she said in a talk she gave some years ago. ''An 1875 Log Cabin can help when you feel, as did Willy Loman, 'kind of temporary about myself.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert and Ardis James in their home in 2002. The Reconciliation Quilt, right, was made by Lucinda Ward Honstain in 1867. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS MAYNARD
 UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA'S INTERNATIONAL QUILT STUDY CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (78%); HISTORY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (67%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (66%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (92%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDIA (69%)

CATEGORY: Philanthropy

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



602 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Robber Barons at Work

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KAZIN. 
Michael Kazin's latest book, ''American Dreamers: How the Left Changed a Nation,'' will be published next month. He teaches history at Georgetown University.

 BODY:
RAILROADED
The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern America
By Richard White
Illustrated. 660 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $35.
''Type of the modern! emblem of motion and power! pulse of the continent!'' Walt Whitman sang in praise of the railroad. When he published those lines in 1876, the vast network that connected West to East was being widely hailed as the muscular marvel of the industrial age. It sped the bounty of farms and factories across the land, spawned hundreds of towns and cities along its routes, pioneered in marketing and managerial organization, and employed a huge and growing labor force. The men who created and ran the transcontinentals -- Leland Stanford, Collis P. Huntington, Jay Gould, Mark Hopkins, Charles Francis Adams Jr., among others -- were as famous in their era as such high-tech moguls as Bill Gates and Steve Jobs are today. Their entrepreneurial daring did much to transform the United States into a prosperous, developed nation. 
Richard White will have none of it. ''Transcontinental railroads,'' he asserts in ''Railroaded,'' ''were a Gilded Age extravagance that rent holes in the political, social and environmental fabric of the nation, creating railroads as mismanaged and corrupt as they were long.'' This is a bold indictment, but White supports it convincingly with lavish detail and prose that swivels easily from denunciation to irony.
To gain an edge on their corporate rivals, railroad owners built expensive lines into drought-prone areas that had few settlers and little prospect of attracting more. To finance their risky endeavors, they routinely bribed politicians and borrowed money they could not pay back -- while publishing mendacious financial reports. To insure friendly coverage, railroad executives bankrolled local newspapers and arranged to kill or delay the publication of stories that might damage their interests. At the helm of a dangerous industry where workplace accidents were common, they resisted installing air brakes and other devices that would have sharply reduced the toll of maimings and deaths. ''The Northern Pacific,'' White says, ''banned unnecessary whistle blowing on the Sabbath and profane language any day, but it slaughtered workers day in and day out.''
A distinguished historian of the West who teaches at Stanford, White draws some of his most damning evidence from the private papers of the corporate moguls themselves. Away from their publicists, they come across as men whose characters were as flawed -- and as captivating -- as their industry. Collis P. Huntington of the Central Pacific and Southern Pacific lines had the soul of a miser. In 1890, a train pulling his private car hit a young hotel worker as she walked along the tracks in rural Missouri. Huntington initially offered to pay for her medical care. But she died after a botched amputation. And when the doctors and undertaker submitted their bills, he abruptly changed his mind. The millionaire grumbled that he ''could not possibly protect [him]self from swindle so long as [he] manifested a willingness to show substantial sympathy.'' In total, the expenses came to $622. ''Huntington would not have looked twice if these had been costs of lobbying,'' White observes.
In contrast, Charles Francis Adams Jr., the head of the Union Pacific, regarded himself as a genteel intellectual. The grandson and great-grandson of presidents was merely dabbling, temporarily, in the biggest industry in the land, which he vowed to reform. Adams scorned the venality of his fellow railroad bosses. ''Our method of doing business is founded upon lying, cheating and stealing -- all bad things,'' he remarked. But such high-mindedness did not prevent Adams from playing the game as ruthlessly as his competitors, albeit not as effectively. When the Union Pacific neared bankruptcy in 1890, Adams had to resign his post. On his way out, he ridiculed the looks and clothes of Jay Gould, his more cunning successor.
White seems to take particular pleasure in belittling the image of the man who founded the well-endowed university that currently employs him. Californians liked Leland Stanford well enough to elect him governor. Later, the State Legislature graced him with a seat in the United States Senate. But Stanford's partners in the railroad business considered him to be a lazy and incompetent fool. ''He could do it,'' Mark Hopkins wrote about some corporate task, ''but not without more mental effort than is agreeable to him.'' Stanford, Collis Huntington added, ''has never made any money, but has had a good deal made for him and knows no more of its value when he gets it than he does of the way in which it was obtained.''
White's scathing narrative is often reminiscent of older histories and novels about the Gilded Age that pit clever, if immoral, ''robber barons'' against a public that grew increasingly alarmed about the extent of their power and ill-gotten wealth. ''The Octopus,'' Frank Norris's 1901 novel about the Southern Pacific, is a classic example.
But White calls Huntington and his ilk ''men in octopus suits.'' He views them as 19th-century equivalents of the profit-mad, short-sighted financiers who recently undermined economies on both sides of the Atlantic. Both transcontinental railroad managers then and the Wall Street bankers in our time ran ''highly leveraged operations'' that ''depended on continued borrowing to meet their obligations.'' Both groups made it rich because they had powerful enablers in Washington. In the 1870s and 1890s, when panicked investors dumped the heavily watered stock in their railroad portfolios, the market collapsed, and long depressions ensued. We seem to have escaped the same fate -- with an assist from ''socialist'' government bailouts and stimuli.
Federal largess was hardly absent during the Gilded Age. True, the government was not in the habit of rescuing mismanaged corporations nor, for that matter, of offering aid to ordinary Americans who lost jobs and homes when the economy collapsed. Grover Cleveland, the Democrat who sat in the White House during the depression of the 1890s, intoned, ''Though the people support the government, the government should not support the people.'' Yet, in 1894, Cleveland's attorney general, Richard Olney, rushed to court to bust a national strike by railroad workers who were expressing solidarity with a walkout by employees of the Pullman sleeping car company. With a federal injunction in hand, Cleveland ordered thousands of American troops to break the strike and arrest its leaders. At the time, the attorney general was on the payroll of at least one major railroad company.
At the end of his powerful book, crowded with telling details and shrewd observations about nearly every aspect of the world the railroad bosses made, White floats a counterfactual balloon: what if the steel lines that spanned the continent had been ''built as demand required'' instead of as part of a competitive dash that caused as much waste and hardship as progress? Slower, more rational development would have lessened the damage to the environment, given Native Americans a chance to adapt to conquest and perhaps saved thousands of lives. White advises, ''We need to think about what did not happen in order to think historically.''
Such an alternative past would probably require a different country. The history of American capitalism is stuffed with tales of industries that overbuilt and overpromised and left bankruptcies and distressed ecosystems in their wake: gold and silver mining, oil drilling and nuclear power, to name a few. The railroad barons wielded more power than other businessmen in the Gilded Age. But their behavior revealed a trait they shared with many of their fellow citizens: too much was never enough.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL DE TORRES) (BR14-BR15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); BRIBERY (70%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (70%); HISTORY (68%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (65%); INDICTMENTS (65%); HOTEL STAFF (60%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern America (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



603 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIRST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Let's Ban Books

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER. 
Bill Keller is executive editor of The New York Times.

 BODY:
There was exciting news last month among the Twitterati. Brian Stelter, The New York Times prodigy and master of social media, announced to his 64,373 followers that he is going to write a book. The obvious question: What's up with that?
Not that I doubt he can do it. The man The New York Observer calls our ''Svelte Twitter Svengali'' has a history of setting the bar high and vaulting over it. He files prodigiously for The Times; stars in the new ''Page One'' documentary; and has promulgated, as of my last check, 21,376 Tweets -- not counting the separate Twitter stream where he records every morsel of food he consumes. (Brian lost more than 90 pounds last year on a Twitter-assisted diet; it's probably hard to feed yourself when your fingers are permanently affixed to a keyboard.) As his colleague in the media-reporting unit, David Carr, memorably said of the talented upstart, ''I still can't get over the feeling that Brian Stelter was a robot assembled in the basement of The New York Times to come and destroy me.'' 
So yes, he can write a book. But why would he want to? Why, in fact, would anyone want to?
For years now the populist prophets of new media have been proclaiming the death of books, and the marketplace seems to back them up. Sales of print books in the U.S. peaked in 2005 and have been in steady decline since, according to publishers' net revenue data reported to the Association of American Publishers.
Watching that trend, I find my grief for the state of civilization comes with a guilty surge of relief. Sure, I would miss books -- and so, by the way, would my children -- but at least the death of books would put an end to the annoying fact that everyone who works for me is either writing one or wants to. I would get my staff back!
Every month, it seems, some reporter drops by my office to request a leave of absence to write a book. I patiently explain that book-writing is agony -- slow, lonely, frustrating work that, unless you are a very rare exception, gets a lukewarm review (if any), reaches a few thousand people and lands on a remaindered shelf at Barnes & Noble. I recount my own experience as a book failure -- two incompletes, and I'm still paying back a sizable advance with a yearly check to Simon & Schuster that I think of not as a burden but as bail.
But still the reporters -- and editors, too -- keep coming to sit in my office among the teetering stacks of Times-written books that I mean to read someday and to listen politely to my description of book-writing Gethsemane, and then they join the cliff-bound lemmings anyway.
Off they go to write books about wars, books about spies, books about diplomacy. Books about basketball, books about China and, coming soon, a book about basketball in China. Halfadozenbooksexploringaspects of the recent financial meltdown. One (and one more pending) about George W. Bush; one (and another pending) about the Obama family. We do cookbooks, travel books, puzzle books and movie guides. A book explaining the English. A book explaining the French. Books about The New York Times. We do biographies (Whittaker Chambers, Edward Kennedy, Virgil Thomson, Einstein) and memoirs (growing up in Alabama, growing up in Liberia, growing up Catholic). Cancer. Jazz. Physics. Pipe organs. Marriage. The weather.
Two editors were writing books about their dogs. At the same time!
Over on the Op-Ed page, where I am migrating in September, every columnist except one has written a book or two or three, though only one is closing in on William Safire's 20-something output.
I've learned interesting things from the books of my staffers. I learned that I employed a financial writer who got himself so deep in debt he couldn't make his mortgage payments, a media columnist who had been a crack addict and a restaurant critic with a history of eating disorders. (To those who found these cases problematic, I replied that there is no better qualification for writing about life in all its complexity than having lived it.)
I confess I have not set a great example. I signed two book contracts, after all, and although I fulfilled neither of them, I did manage a short biography of Nelson Mandela for ''young readers,'' pardon the oxymoron, and I've written a few introductions for compilations of Times material. The Times covers books, reviews books, ranks books and publishes books. We are total enablers.
We indulge our writers because we want the talent happy, and because a little of their prestige accrues to The Times. But we do so at a cost. Books mean writers who are absent or distracted from daily journalism, writers who have to be replaced when they leave their reporting beats and landed somewhere when they return. There is the tricky relationship between what they unearth for their books and what goes into the paper. There is the awkwardness of reviewing books by colleagues -- and the greater awkwardness of not reviewing them. There is the resentment of those left behind to take up the slack, especially where fat advances have been paid.
So, why aren't books dead yet? It helps that e-books are booming. Kindle and Nook have begun to refashion the economics of the medieval publishing industry: no trucks, no paper, no returns or remainders.
But that does not explain why writers write them. Writers write them for reasons that usually have a little to do with money and not as much to do with masochism as you might think. There is real satisfaction in a story deeply told, a case richly argued, a puzzle meticulously untangled. (Note the tense. When people say they love writing, they usually mean they love having written.) And it is still a credential, a trophy, a pathway to ''Charlie Rose'' and ''Morning Joe,'' to conferences and panels that Build Your Brand, to speaking fees and writing assignments. After Brian's book, he will be an even more stellar Stelter.
His book, by the way, will investigate another durable old medium -- morning television. It will come in both print and electronic formats, but he confesses, ''I'm sure I'll prefer it as a hardcover.''
Sigh. It will never end.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DESIGN PICS/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BOOK SALES (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (69%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (91%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



604 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2163 words

HEADLINE: Arena Opera, Mortier Style

BYLINE: By ZACHARY WOOLFE

 BODY:
MADRID
THE queen of Spain sat in the bleachers.
Grandes dames emerged from chauffeured sedans on the arms of white-haired husbands. A rushing scrum of photographers flashed cameras. There was a sighting of the Nobel laureate Mario Vargas Llosa. This city's notoriously conservative archbishop came, but just for the third act.
The crowd had gathered on the outskirts of the city in the Madrid Arena, the cavernous home of the C.B. Estudiantes basketball team, to watch the Teatro Real's presentation of Olivier Messiaen's long, hypnotic 1983 opera, ''St. Francois d'Assise.'' It was a scene very different from a normal night at the company's plush flagship theater in the center of the city. The arena's bars were covered in starched white tablecloths, but beer still flowed from the taps. The clicks of spike heels reverberated against the poured concrete walls. 
A few rows from the front sat three very serious young people in shorts and sneakers who applauded with grim concentration. Nearby two women checked the time on their cellphones every 15 minutes. During the two-hour second act a small stream of people trickled toward the exits; many in the audience failed to return after the intermission. But the ovation after the ecstatic finale was intense, as people realized that the only way to make real noise in a sports arena was to stamp their feet.
Surreal, exhausting and exhilarating, it was a spectacle. And presiding over it all, a few seats away from Queen Sofia, wearing a dark suit and spectacles and squinting as he grinned, was Gerard Mortier, the artistic director of the Teatro Real.
It wasn't supposed to be this way. In 2007 Mr. Mortier, now 67, was hired as the general manager and artistic director of New York City Opera. It was a coup for the company, since he is one of the most celebrated and bravest impresarios of our time, with provocative glory trailing him from Frankfurt to Brussels, from Salzburg to Paris.
''He is one of the most important people to have fought the great fight in the past 35 years,'' said the artist manager and opera impresario Matthew Epstein.
Contracts were signed, boldly modern seasons programmed at City Opera. The company went ahead with Mr. Mortier's plan to close and renovate its Lincoln Center home during the 2008-9 season as he flew back and forth between New York and France, where he had been general director of the Paris Opera since 2004.
But some combination of post-Lehman Brothers anxiety and skepticism about Mr. Mortier's ideas ended the honeymoon. He was eventually presented with a $36 million budget for his first season, little more than half of what he had originally agreed to, and he balked. ''I cannot go to run a company that has less than the smallest company in France,'' Mr. Mortier said then. ''You don't need me for that.''
A few months earlier the Teatro Real had gauged his interest in coming here. He demurred. The day he and City Opera parted ways, the company called again, and three weeks later he agreed to take the position in Madrid.
Looking back on the debacle in his cool, shady office at the theater a week before the premiere of ''St. Francois'' Mr. Mortier, who is Belgian, was even toned, saying he perhaps had not left Paris soon enough to devote himself to operations in New York, particularly fund-raising.
''But it was a miscalculation to think that when I came, there would suddenly be enormous fund-raising,'' he added. ''People in New York don't know my name, they don't know me. I don't know if that's my fault or their fault. I think it's their fault. I don't want to be pretentious, but in some things I know what I am worth. But you know, that's New York. It's a world city, and at the same time it's provincial.''
The idea was that the quality and audacity of City Opera's new productions would stimulate giving. Until then, dipping into the company's endowment would tide it over, coupled with a push from the board. But board members were disturbed in the summer of 2008 when Mr. Mortier joined in a proposal to run the Bayreuth Festival in Germany. (The effort failed.) He said that he knew the proposal would be rejected, and that he was trying to send a message to City Opera's board as he increasingly doubted its commitment to his plans.
''Some months before I opened,'' he said, ''part of the board -- I don't mean the executive committee, but the rest of the board -- I asked if they all would give me $10,000 more, but there was no movement. They didn't have the money, or they didn't want to give the money.''
Mr. Mortier just ended his first season in Madrid the way he intended to begin his first in New York: with Emilia and Ilya Kabakov's production of ''St. Francois.'' It was supposed to play at the Park Avenue Armory in the fall of 2009; he said the sets had even been shipped to New York, ready to be assembled.
Those sets returned to Europe, along with Mr. Mortier and his plans for City Opera, many of which are becoming reality here. In addition to ''St. Francois'' there was a raucous version of Karol Szymanowski's ''King Roger'' this year. Still to come are Mozart's ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' directed by Michael Haneke, in the 2012-13 season; a new opera from Philip Glass about the life of Walt Disney in January 2013; and Charles Wuorinen's new adaptation of ''Brokeback Mountain'' in 2014, among others. But more than specific projects, Mr. Mortier's overarching mandate at the Teatro Real, which has been respected but never an international leader, is practically identical to the one he would have had in New York: to make something happen.
''I think the opera has become a place where people try to find values they think they are losing,'' Mr. Mortier said. ''It's something I can understand. It's like a teddy bear. But you cannot keep on as an adult sleeping with your teddy bear. It's the same thing with opera. I don't accept a lack of curiosity.''
Would Mr. Mortier, as he likes to put it, have won in New York? It's a question still relevant as City Opera remains in dire straits, having abandoned the theater that Mr. Mortier persuaded it to renovate and announced on Tuesday an abbreviated, wandering season including a Christopher Alden production of ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' Rufus Wainwright's neo-Romantic ''Prima Donna'' and a production of Verdi's ''Traviata'' borrowed from the Glimmerglass Festival and Vancouver Opera.
The contrast with the Teatro Real is stark. Mr. Mortier, buoyed by an attenuated but still robust government subsidy that covers roughly half of his budget, has plotted an ambitious, bracing 2011-12 season made up entirely of new productions. No Puccini. No Verdi, except as part of an evening of excerpts exploring the ideological implications of the chorus in opera. The only Mozart will be ''La Clemenza di Tito.''
''Next year is the test program,'' Mr. Mortier said. ''I wanted to make a shock. I wouldn't say it's difficult, but for a bel canto public it's a shock. Everything will depend on my first three months, with 'Elektra,' 'Pelleas et Melisande' and 'Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk.' If that goes well, I think we have rounded the curve. But at my age I have nothing to lose. It's this way or no way. I didn't come here to do 'Aida' and 'Traviata' and Donizetti.''
The adventurous programming has had a down side: 18 percent of the theater's subscriptions have not been renewed for next season, though 6 percent have already been resold. The press has been polarized about Mr. Mortier's productions and alternately amused and offended that he insists on conducting his press conferences in Spanish, in which he is less than fluent. The language issue caused a minor scandal in March, when he said that Spanish singers ''interpret Verdi the same way as Puccini,'' which led to the formation of a Facebook group calling for his ouster.
But for better or worse Madrid has been talking about the opera -- heatedly -- rather than merely putting on couture and going to it. John Berry, artistic director of the English National Opera, said approvingly that the opening night of ''King Roger'' was a riot, with boos and bravos competing at the curtain calls.
''It was an enormous scandal,'' Mr. Mortier said with a smile, ''and it became an enormous success. On opening night I said, 'Now we are really international.' People aren't sleeping at the end.''
With ''St. Francois'' he practiced arts administration as performance art, making Madrid's political, cultural and social elite trek to a sports arena in the summer heat to sit on semipadded seats for a six-hour opera. It was manipulative, controlling, willful. Yet it had irresistible showmanship, the flair that separates a true impresario from just another general manager. In New York it would have been an important night at the opera, but in Madrid -- where the Teatro Real plays a role in city life far greater than either of New York's companies -- it was more, palpably broadening the range of the city's experiences. It made literal just what he is trying to do: make people uncomfortable.
Cerebral yet dramatic, the Kabakovs' production is perhaps the perfect Mortier vehicle. Spare, serene gestures are juxtaposed with the enormous set, a stained-glass church cupola turned on its side. The shifting colors subtly track the shifts in the stylized drama. The 12,000-seat arena turned out to be an unexpectedly perfect setting, a maze of steel beams and catwalks that echoed the wrought-iron look of the set, the Angel receding into the moody darkness of the upper balconies.
One journalist complained at the premiere that the Spanish taxpayer was shouldering an undue burden in helping to finance Mr. Mortier's expensive plans. Though an ostensible theme of the season was frugality and a critique of consumption, ''St. Francois'' cost two million euros (about $2.8 million) for five performances, part of a season budget of about 54 million euros. Mr. Mortier is an eager fund-raiser, and he has cut production budgets, but the key fact of his career is that he suavely, persuasively and brilliantly spends huge amounts of money, which is possible in Europe, in boom times, but certainly not in the United States during a recession.
''The idea of City Opera and Mortier was silly,'' said Mr. Epstein, the artist manager. ''The brilliance of the man on the positive side is mirrored by hubris on the negative side. Mortier is a dinosaur of another age. He's an adventurer, he's a dreamer, he's a visionary. The problem is, he's expensive. Anyone who thought he was going to come to New York and work for cheap was naive.''
Mr. Mortier thinks differently: ''I am sure that if I had started in New York -- and it was a question of $20 million, which in the end is both a lot and not so much -- we would have had an enormous success. I would have won that, I am sure.''
The problem with City Opera, the one that may well have prevented him from winning, is one that transcends Mr. Mortier and George Steel, now that company's general manager and artistic director. It is a structural problem: the United States has never had a reliably sustainable model for financing most arts organizations and other nonprofits. When your director is a charismatic fund-raiser like Beverly Sills, things may go smoothly for a few years, but that is once-in-a-century leadership. Otherwise you are left utterly exposed to economic downturns and the whims of board members.
''The situation is horrible,'' Mr. Mortier said of City Opera's struggles. ''I appreciate very much George Steel, but he cannot solve it. There is so much deficit, and if you can't produce something---- '' He shook his head.
Messiaen's stage directions say that the light at the end of ''St. Francois'' should gradually increase until it is ''blinding and unsustainable,'' which may be an apt description of Mr. Mortier's programming. ''I will give them one Puccini,'' he said with a laugh about his 2012-13 season, but don't expect ''Boheme'': he is combining the one-act ''Suor Angelica'' with Luigi Dallapiccola's 12-tone opera ''Il Prigioniero.''
Even if Madrid can't take him in the long run, Mr. Mortier has at least a few years left. His contract runs through 2015.
''I will be 72 then,'' he said. ''In America it would be normal to go on, and my doctor says, 'You will die on the battlefield.' But I don't know. I want to create an atelier here for young singers. But if I have to do 'Traviata' here to survive, no. Then I will survive somewhere else.''
Correction: July 31, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on July 17 with an article about Gerard Mortier, artistic director of the Teatro Real in Madrid, misidentified one of the performers in the six-hour opera he staged in a sports arena outside the city. And a correction in this space last Sunday misspelled part of the name of the opera. It was Alejandro Marco-Buhrmester -- not Wiard Witholt -- who performed in ''St. Francois d'Assise,'' not ''St. Francoise d'Assise.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Camilla Tilling in Teatro Real's ''St. Francois d'Assise'' in a sports arena in Madrid.(AR1)
In scenes from ''St. Francois d'Assise,'' Wiard Witholt, above center
Michael Konig, above right
 and Tom Randle and Alejandro Marco-Buhrmester, below. Above left, Gerard Mortier. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAVIER DEL REAL) (AR16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); THEATER (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); SPORTS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); RELIGION (57%); NOBEL PRIZES (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) SPAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (71%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011



605 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: We're Spent

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
The Economic Scene columnist for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THERE is no shortage of explanations for the economy's maddening inability to leave behind the Great Recession and start adding large numbers of jobs: The deficit is too big. The stimulus was flawed. China is overtaking us. Businesses are overregulated. Wall Street is underregulated.
But the real culprit -- or at least the main one -- has been hiding in plain sight. We are living through a tremendous bust. It isn't simply a housing bust. It's a fizzling of the great consumer bubble that was decades in the making.
The auto industry is on pace to sell 28 percent fewer new vehicles this year than it did 10 years ago -- and 10 years ago was 2001, when the country was in recession. Sales of ovens and stoves are on pace to be at their lowest level since 1992. Home sales over the past year have fallen back to their lowest point since the crisis began. And big-ticket items are hardly the only problem. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York recently published a jarring report on what it calls discretionary service spending, a category that excludes housing, food and health care and includes restaurant meals, entertainment, education and even insurance. Going back decades, such spending had never fallen more than 3 percent per capita in a recession. In this slump, it is down almost 7 percent, and still has not really begun to recover.
The past week brought more bad news. Retail sales in June were weaker than expected, and consumer confidence fell, causing economists to downgrade their estimates for economic growth yet again. It's a familiar routine by now. Forecasters in Washington and on Wall Street keep saying the recovery's problems are temporary -- and then they redefine temporary.
If you're looking for one overarching explanation for the still-terrible job market, it is this great consumer bust. Business executives are only rational to hold back on hiring if they do not know when their customers will fully return. Consumers, for their part, are coping with a sharp loss of wealth and an uncertain future (and many have discovered that they don't need to buy a new car or stove every few years). Both consumers and executives are easily frightened by the latest economic problem, be it rising gas prices or the debt-ceiling impasse.
Earlier this year, Charles M. Holley Jr., the chief financial officer of Wal-Mart, said that his company had noticed consumers were often buying smaller packages toward the end of the month, just before many households receive their next paychecks. ''You see customers that are running out of money at the end of the month,'' Mr. Holley said.
In past years, many of those customers could have relied on debt, often a home-equity line of credit or a credit card, to tide them over. Debt soared in the late 1980s, 1990s and the last decade, which allowed spending to grow faster than incomes and helped cushion every recession in that period.
Now, the economic version of the law of gravity is reasserting itself. We are feeling the deferred pain from 25 years of excess, as people try to rebuild their depleted savings. This pattern is a classic one. The definitive book about financial crises has become ''This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,'' published in 2009 with exquisite timing, by Carmen M. Reinhart, now of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, and Kenneth S. Rogoff, of Harvard.
Surveying hundreds of years of crises around the world, Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff conclude that debt is the primary cause and that the aftermath is ''deep and prolonged,'' with ''profound declines in output and employment.'' On average, a modern financial crisis has caused the unemployment rate to rise for more than four years and by 7 percentage points. (We're now at almost four years and 5 percentage points.) The recovery takes many years more.
THE notion that the United States needs to begin moving away from its consumer economy -- toward more of an investment and production economy, with rising exports, expanding factories and more good-paying service jobs -- has become so commonplace that it's practically a cliche. It's also true. And the consumer bust shows why. The old consumer economy is gone, and it's not coming back.
Sure, house and car sales will eventually surpass their old highs, as the economy slowly recovers and the population continues expanding. But consumer spending will not soon return to the growth rates of the 1980s and '90s. They depended on income people didn't have.
The choice, then, is between starting to make the transition to a different economy and enduring years of stop-and-start economic malaise.
The easy thing now might be to proclaim that debt is evil and ask everyone -- consumers, the federal government, state governments -- to get thrifty. The pithiest version of that strategy comes from Andrew W. Mellon, the Treasury secretary when the Depression began: ''Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate,'' Mellon said, according to his boss, President Herbert Hoover. ''It will purge the rottenness out of the system.''
History, however, has a different verdict. If governments stop spending at the same time that consumers do, the economy can enter a vicious cycle, as it did in Hoover's day.
The prospect of that cycle is one reason an impasse on the debt ceiling, and a government default, could do so much damage. Global investors may be the only major constituency that has been feeling sanguine about the American economy. If Washington unnerves them, and sends interest rates rising, the effect really could be calamitous.
But the debt-ceiling debate doesn't have to be yet another problem for the economy. The right kind of agreement could help soften the consumer bust and also speed the transition to a different kind of economy.
What might that agreement look like? First, it could reduce deficits in future years, to keep investors confident that Washington too could begin living within its means after years of excess.
Second, a deal could avoid the Mellon-like problem of having government cut back at the same time as consumers. The Federal Reserve, the Obama administration and Congress seemed to learn this lesson in 2009, when they aggressively responded to the crisis, only to turn more passive in 2010 and spend much of the year hoping for the best. It didn't work out. Today, the most obvious options for stimulus are extensions of jobless benefits and of a temporary cut in the Social Security tax.
But they probably shouldn't be the only options. The biggest flaw with the past stimulus was that it imagined that the old consumer economy might return. Households received large tax rebates, usually with little incentive to spend the money (the cash-for-clunkers program being the exception that proves the rule). People did spend some of these across-the-board rebates, and kept economic growth and unemployment from being even worse, but also saved a sizable portion.
A more promising approach could instead offer a tax cut to businesses -- but only to those expanding their payrolls and, in the process, helping to solve the jobs crisis. Along similar lines, a budget deal could increase funding for medical research and clean energy by even more than President Obama has suggested. These are the kinds of investments that have brought huge returns in the past -- think of the Internet, a Defense Department creation -- and whose price tags are tiny compared to, say, Medicare or the Bush tax cuts.
Politics, of course, makes many of these ideas unlikely to happen anytime soon. Unfortunately, though, these debt-ceiling talks won't be the final chance for Washington to help the country recover from the great consumer bust. That's the thing about consumer busts. They last for a very long time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PERNICE AND ASHLEY NODAR)(SR1)
HOMES
AUTOMOBILES
WASHERS AND DRYERS
STOVES AND OVENS (SR6) CHARTS: Slumps in Consumer Spending: During economic downturns, consumers usually spend less on what the Fed calls ''discretionary services'' -- items like education, entertainment, restaurant meals and insurance. But in the chart above, it's clear that consumers today are cutting back much more sharply. Part of the reason: In previous years, households often added debt to continue spending. Now the bill has come due.
Spending on discretionary services
Also Not Selling Like They Used To (Sources: Discretionary spending analysis by Jonathan McCarthy, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis
Census Bureau and National Association of Realtors
Autodata Corp.
Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers
 Haver Analytics) (CHARTS BY BILL MARSH /THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); DEBT CEILING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF HOME APPLIANCE MANUFACTURERS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



606 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Our Broken Escalator

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
YAMHILL, Ore.
THE United States supports schools in Afghanistan because we know that education is one of the cheapest and most effective ways to build a country.
Alas, we've forgotten that lesson at home. All across America, school budgets are being cut, teachers laid off and education programs dismantled.
My beloved old high school in Yamhill, Ore. -- a plain brick building that was my rocket ship -- is emblematic of that trend. There were only 167 school days in the last school year here (180 was typical until the recession hit), and the staff has been reduced by 9 percent over five years. 
This school was where I embraced sports, became a journalist, encountered intellectual worlds, and got in trouble. These days, the 430 students still have opportunities to get into trouble, but the rest is harder.
For the next school year, freshman and junior varsity sports teams are at risk, and all students will have to pay $125 to participate on a team. The school newspaper, which once doubled as a biweekly newspaper for the entire town, has been terminated.
Business classes are gone. A music teacher has been eliminated. Class size is growing, with more than 40 students in freshman Spanish. ''It's like a long, slow bleed, watching things disappear,'' says the school district's business manager, Michelle Morrison.
The school still has good teachers, but is that sustainable with a starting salary of $33,676?
In a rural, blue-collar area like Yamhill, traditionally dependent on farming and forestry, school has always been an escalator to opportunity. One of my buddies was Loren, a house painter's son, who graduated as salutatorian and became a lawyer. That's the role that education historically has played -- but the escalator is now breaking down.
''Every year we say: 'What can we cut? What can we reduce?' '' said Steve Chiovaro, superintendent of Yamhill-Carlton schools. ''We've gotten to the point where we can no longer 'do no harm.' We're starting to eviscerate education.''
Yamhill is far from alone. The Center on Education Policy reports that 70 percent of school districts nationwide endured budget cuts in the school year that just ended, and 84 percent anticipate cuts this year.
In higher education, the same drama is unfolding. California's superb public university system is being undermined by the biggest budget cuts in the state's history. Tuition is set to rise about 20 percent this year, on top of a 26 percent increase last year, which means that college will become unaffordable for some.
The immediate losers are the students. In the long run, the loser is our country.
Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz, two Harvard economists, argue in their book ''The Race Between Education and Technology'' that a prime factor in America's rise over the last two centuries was its leadership in educating the masses.
On the eve of World War I, only 1 percent of Britain's young people graduated from high school, compared with 9 percent of Americans. By 1950, a majority of American youths were graduating from high school, compared with only 10 percent of British youths.
American pre-eminence in mass education has eroded since the 1970s, and now a number of countries have leapfrogged us in high school graduation rates, in student performance, in college attendance. If you look for the classic American faith in the value of broad education to spread opportunity, you can still find it -- in Asia.
When I report on poverty in Africa and poverty in America, the differences are vast. But there is a common thread: chipping away at poverty is difficult and uncertain work, but perhaps the anti-poverty program with the very best record is education -- and that's as true in New York as it is in Nigeria.
Granted, budget shortfalls are real, and schools need reforms as well as dollars. Pouring money into a broken system isn't a solution, and we need more accountability. But it's also true that blindly slashing budgets is making the problems worse. As Derek Bok, the former Harvard president, once observed, ''If you think education is expensive, try ignorance.''
Still, we nation-build in Afghanistan and scrimp at home. How is it that we can afford to double our military budget since 9/11, can afford the carried-interest tax loophole for billionaires, can afford billions of dollars in givebacks to oil and gas companies, yet can't afford to invest in our kids' futures?
Sometimes I hear people endorse education cuts by arguing that ''school isn't for everybody,'' which usually means something like ''education isn't for other people's children'' -- or that farm kids in places like Yamhill really don't need schools that double as rocket ships. I can't think of any view that is more un-American.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); TRENDS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HISTORY (74%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); WRITERS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



607 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, July 17th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 17, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 2, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1133UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 228IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $26.) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazi Party concentrates on William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 3513BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown, $26.99.) A memoir from the creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 436THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $37.50.) The historian explores the intellectual legacy that France settled on its 19th-century visitors. 5112THE MIRACLE OF FREEDOM, by Chris Stewart and Ted Stewart. (Shadow Mountain, $28.99.) A claim that historical tipping points helped assure contemporary democracy. 664DEMONIC, by Ann Coulter. (Crown Forum, $28.99.) The columnist compares the Democratic Party to a mob. 745RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT, by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner. (Times Books/Holt, $30.) This account of 2008&#8217;s financial crisis highlights responsible individuals. 8*88SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s, $26.99.) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his training and missions. 9142LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.) How three World War II sightseers survived a crash in remote New Guinea. 10*75THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins, $26.99.) The Broncos quarterback discusses his life, faith and career in football. 1198LIES THAT CHELSEA HANDLER TOLD ME, by Chelsea Handler, Glen Handler, Roy Handler and others. (Grand Central, $24.99.) Handler&#39;s friends, family members and colleagues write about being victims of her practical jokes. 12106THOSE GUYS HAVE ALL THE FUN, by James Andrew Miller and Tom Shales. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An oral history of the sports network ESPN. 13*129DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler with David Dalton. (Ecco, $27.99.) The singer and showman recounts the rise, fall and rise of Aerosmith. 14157AREA 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An account of the mysterious military installation, which the author contends is the home of secret espionage programs. 1510THE SOCIAL ANIMAL, by David Brooks. (Random House, $27.) Brooks employs an imaginary couple to suggest that people do not have conscious control of their actions.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. ON CHINA, by Henry Kissinger. (Penguin Press)
17. HITMAN, by Howie Carr. (Forge)
18. THE PSYCHOPATH TEST, by Jon Ronson. (Riverhead)
19. THE SECRET KNOWLEDGE, by David Mamet. (Sentinel)
20. THE POST-AMERICAN WORLD 2.0, by Fareed Zakaria. (Norton)
21. NOT AFRAID OF LIFE, by Bristol Palin. (Morrow)
22. ---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (It Books/HarperCollins)
23. STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt)
24. A WORLD ON FIRE, by Amanda Foreman. (Random House)
25. FINDING SARAH, by Sarah Ferguson. (Atria)
26. A LOVE THAT MULTIPLIES, by Michelle and Jim Bob Duggar. (Howard)
27. CAR GUYS VS. BEAN COUNTERS, by Bob Lutz. (Portfolio)
28. MOONWALKING WITH EINSTEIN, by Joshua Foer. (Penguin Press)
29. NOTHING DAUNTED, by Dorothy Wickenden. (Scribner)
30. THIS IS A BOOK, by Demetri Martin. (Grand Central)
31. THE STORM OF WAR, by Andrew Roberts. (Harper)
32. INCOGNITO, by David Eagleman. (Pantheon)
33. PROFESSIONAL IDIOT, by Stephen &#34;steve-o&#34; Glover with David Peisner. (Hyperion)
34. THE COMPASS OF PLEASURE, by David J. Linden. (Viking)
35. STARTING OVER, by La Toya Jackson with Jeffr&#233; Phillips. (Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); WORLD WAR II (87%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); ATHLETES (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); RUNNING (53%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



608 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GREENTECH; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Said to Consider Diesel Cruze

BYLINE: By PAUL STENQUIST

 BODY:
GENERAL MOTORS is said to have plans to attract more buyers to Chevrolet showrooms by introducing a diesel-powered version of the Cruze, the compact sedan that was the country's best-selling car in June. According to an Associated Press report last week, based on unidentified sources, United States sales of a diesel Cruze, a model already offered in other countries, are two years away. 
Such a fuel-sipping model could arrive here with an E.P.A.-compliant version of the 2-liter 4-cylinder turbodiesel available in Australia as the Holden Cruze and in other Cruze variants around the globe. The engine, developed by VM Motori of Cento, Italy -- a company half-owned by G.M. -- generates 160 horsepower. The A.P. report cited a highway fuel economy estimate of 50 m.p.g. for an American-market Cruze diesel.
G.M responded to the report in a statement: ''The Cruze is an important vehicle for Chevrolet and G.M., and we are going to look at a variety of ways to make sure that Cruze stays competitive, fresh and current in the marketplace going forward. However, we have no news to share at this time.''
A Chevrolet spokesman, Tom Wilkinson, said in a telephone interview that while he could not comment on the likelihood of a diesel Cruze, one advantage of G.M.'s global presence was the number of choices available to the company. This, he added, meant that the product mix could be rapidly altered in response to factors like the price of fuel and the regulatory climate.
But introducing the Cruze diesel to the American market would not be a simple matter. First, emissions standards for one pollutant, oxides of nitrogen, are more stringent than those in Europe and Australia. For that reason, most new diesel-powered light vehicles sold here are fitted with a system that injects liquid urea into the exhaust. The system adds cost, requires extra maintenance and presents packaging challenges.
In addition, diesel fuel costs more than gasoline, so fuel efficiency advantages don't necessarily translate to cash savings. Last Tuesday, a Mobil service station in Auburn Hills, Mich., was charging $3.80 for regular gasoline and $4.10 for diesel.
Diesel engine options typically add $1,000 or more to the price of a car, a stumbling block for buyers of economy cars. In addition, buyers in the United States still harbor memories of failure-prone diesel engines hurriedly introduced by automakers during the oil shocks of the 1970s.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DOWN UNDER: Australians can buy a diesel-powered Cruze. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GAS STATIONS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); INTERVIEWS (65%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (63%); NITROGEN OXIDES (63%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); VM MOTORI SPA (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS333618 OTHER ENGINE EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3519 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



609 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Freshmen Say Debt Concerns Them More Than Re-election

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For years, legislation to raise the federal debt limit offered plenty of political theater on Capitol Hill, with the party out of power using it to rail against the party in power. As a senator, Barack Obama said in 2006 that a bill to raise the debt limit was ''a sign of leadership failure.''
This time is different, and not only because the parties have switched roles. Now, conservative House Republicans have a virtual veto over a measure to increase the debt ceiling, and some freshmen in both chambers say they worry more about changing the ways of Washington than about getting re-elected.
''Re-election is the farthest thing from my mind,'' said Representative Tom Reed, a freshman Republican from upstate New York. ''Like many of my colleagues in the freshman class, I came down here to get our fiscal house in order and take care of the threat to national security that we see in the federal debt. We came here not to have long careers. We came here to do something. We don't care about re-election.'' 
It is not clear how genuine or widespread that sentiment is in Congress, but regardless, it has upended what President Obama said on Friday had been a ''difficult but routine process'' in past years.
The sheer size of the debt and its rapid growth in recent years have emboldened fiscal conservatives in the House, prompting some of them to pledge not to vote for a higher debt ceiling even if a compromise can be reached before Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department says it will hit the $14.3 trillion debt cap and run out of borrowing authority.
Since Mr. Obama took office in January 2009, near the end of a long recession, the total federal debt -- including debt held by the public and by government trust funds -- has increased 35 percent. While debt exploded, the economy was stagnant, so debt as a share of the gross domestic product has also increased.
The current battle over deficits and debt could become the norm if Republicans hold on to their seats or make gains in Congress. The federal debt represents the accumulated total of past borrowing. So even if the government slashes the annual budget deficit, it generally cannot reduce the debt unless it runs a surplus.
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said many freshman Republicans -- ''to their undying credit'' -- were not concerned with re-election. ''The people who got elected in 2010 are going to go down fighting,'' said Mr. Graham, who served eight years in the House before winning a Senate seat in 2002. ''They are not going to be persuaded by traditional politics. They could care less about 2012. They want to do what they can on their watch.''
With the Aug. 2 deadline looming, Mr. Obama says a default would have calamitous consequences, jeopardizing the timely payment of Social Security benefits and driving up interest rates for the government and private borrowers alike.
Some Republicans say they do not worry much about being punished by their constituents for playing hardball with their votes on the debt limit and thus pushing the nation to the brink of default. And besides, they doubt that the consequences of a default would be as dire as Mr. Obama and many economists say.
Representative Jeff Landry, a freshman Republican from Louisiana, said, ''I don't believe, if we fail to raise the debt ceiling, that we will default.'' Even if the debt ceiling is reached, Mr. Landry said, the government has more than enough revenue coming in each month to pay principal and interest on the debt.
Senator Patrick J. Toomey, a freshman Republican from Pennsylvania, said a delay in raising the debt limit need not cause a default because the Treasury secretary could set priorities in paying government obligations. Many Republicans would give priority to Social Security, Medicare, veterans' benefits and paychecks for the armed forces. The Obama administration rejects that approach as unworkable.
Former Senator Bob Packwood, Republican of Oregon and a onetime chairman of the Finance Committee, worked on many bills to increase the debt limit, but said, ''I don't recall it ever getting this close to the brink.''
Donald Wolfensberger, the director of the Congress Project at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, who was an aide to House Republicans for 28 years, said, ''There is greater brinkmanship on the debt limit this year because there is a hard-core group that is more intransigent.''
When Republicans were in the White House, Democrats often voted against their requests for more borrowing authority, and it fell to Republicans to shepherd the necessary legislation through Congress.
''I hope we do not have an extended debate and a lot of breast-beating about the issue of increasing the national debt,'' Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said on the Senate floor in 2006. Mr. Grassley said the vote on the debt limit increase -- the one that Mr. Obama opposed -- ''ought to be very pro forma.'' Mr. Obama, for his part, now says he regrets the stance he took as a senator.
Democrats often complained about increases in the debt limit sought by President George W. Bush.
As a senator in 2006, Joseph R. Biden Jr. lamented ''the tsunami of debt created by the policies'' of the Bush administration, including big tax cuts. Now, as vice president, Mr. Biden is trying to persuade Republicans to support a much bigger increase in the debt limit.
In a scrap over the debt limit in 2004, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat, said, ''The immoral, intellectually bankrupt fiscal policies that we have been pursuing for the last four years resulted in this request for a gargantuan increase in the debt.''
The increase then was $800 billion. The White House is now seeking an increase of at least $2.4 trillion. That would lift the limit to at least $16.7 trillion, about twice the level set in 2004.
Some of the Republican resistance reflects fatigue with deficits and debt.
Congress has raised the debt limit 10 times in the last decade. Three of those measures, passed in a seven-month stretch in 2008-9, lifted the debt ceiling by $2.3 trillion to accommodate spending intended to bail out banks, aid struggling homeowners and jolt the economy out of recession.
Senator Mike Lee, a freshman Republican from Utah, said he would ''oppose any and every effort to raise the debt limit'' without a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget.
Another freshman Republican, Representative Todd Rokita of Indiana, said: ''The debt ceiling negotiations are a great opportunity to enact monumental reform within the federal government. In order to raise the debt ceiling, the price for that concession must be the passage of permanent and structural reforms like the balanced budget amendment -- period. There is no additional negotiation.''
Many Democrats are dismayed to see Republicans setting the terms of debate.
''Republicans have turned the necessity of raising the debt ceiling to pay our bills into political leverage,'' said Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont. ''A willful majority can hold hostage the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Patrick J. Toomey, a freshman Republican from Pennsylvania, said a delay in raising the debt limit need not cause a default because the Treasury secretary could set priorities in paying government obligations like Social Security and Medicare. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); RECESSION (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); PAT TOOMEY (57%); TOM REED (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



610 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Perry Racks Up Miles, and Costs, as He Travels the U.S. to Spread His Message

BYLINE: By THANH TAN. 
ttan@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Gov. Rick Perry has been burning up the miles since he won re-election last year. He is on track to have made nearly 50 stops in 21 states by November.
He has been on a book tour. He has been the top pitchman for the Lone Star State's friendly business climate and an unabashed poacher of jobs from other states. Also, as leader of the Republican Governors Association, he has traveled the country to help Republican candidates for governor.
All that travel is not cheap. But it is unclear exactly how much it costs. 
The governor's airfare, hotel bills and security costs are paid for with a mix of campaign and private and public money. And state laws allow the governor to keep confidential much of the cost of his travels.
The Texas Tribune has tracked Mr. Perry's out-of-state appearances since his re-election last year. Between his previous travels and his forthcoming itinerary, he is on pace to make at least 46 stops before November.
Mark Miner, Mr. Perry's spokesman, said the governor tries to make the most of all his trips. For instance, Mr. Perry often holds side meetings with leaders from the private sector. ''No matter where he goes, a major goal of his is to attract businesses to either relocate to this state or create new jobs in Texas,'' Mr. Miner said.
Whatever the stated purpose of his trips, though, the governor's message, usually before Republican audiences, is often tinged with strong rhetoric bashing the federal government and reinforcing his own social conservative values.
Mr. Miner said the Republican Governors Association pays for some trips, but the governor has always relied on his state campaign fund, Texans for Rick Perry, to foot the bills for his airfare, hotels and other standard travel expenditures. That policy applies to both in-state and out-of-state travels and ensures that the governor's office does not break state laws that prohibit the use of taxpayer money for campaign purposes.
Mr. Perry can also accept in-kind donations to his campaign that could include noncash goods like chartered planes and train tickets for his staff. He cannot accept those donations during the 140-day legislative session every two years, though, because of a campaign finance law intended to prevent potential conflicts of interest.
Mr. Miner said Mr. Perry did not accept speaking fees and has made it a standard practice to rely on private donors to pay for his travels since he became governor in 2000. Taxpayers, though, still pay for the governor's security detail, provided by the Texas Department of Public Safety.
The specific costs of those services are confidential. The public safety department has released total figures but withheld itemized expenses, citing security concerns. The Texas Supreme Court recently sided with the department and ruled that the records should remain sealed.
The Texas Legislature added another layer of secrecy to the process when it passed a new law this year that will conceal peace officers' travel vouchers for 18 months. Though the department will file quarterly reports, it is required to report only lump sums, not detailed line-item travel expenditures.
Mr. Miner described the governor as a frugal traveler who only needs ''the bare necessities.''
His definition of frugal, however, may differ from the average Texan's. Mr. Perry's journeys around the country and the world have come under scrutiny in the past. Critics like Keith Elkins, the executive director of the Freedom of Information Foundation of Texas, said the few records that had been released to the public included rentals for a golf cart and scuba gear during an economic development trip Mr. Perry made to the Bahamas in 2005.
And when it comes to security expenses for the governor, Mr. Elkins said taxpayers should ''know specifically how taxpayer money is being spent. Then they can make a decision on whether they support that use of funds or not.''
As attention to his travel expenses increases along with the frequency of his trips and the seeming likelihood of a presidential run, Mr. Perry, Mr. Miner said, would not apologize for touting Texas to the nation. ''He's not campaigning because he's not a candidate,'' Mr. Miner said. ''He still hasn't made a decision.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); AIR FARES (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (69%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



611 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: The Clash of Generations

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
ATHENS
I REALIZE that I should be in Washington watching the debt drama there, but I've opted instead to be in Greece to observe the off-Broadway version. There are a lot of things about this global debt tragedy that you can see better from here, in miniature, starting with the raw plot, which no one has described better than the Carnegie Endowment scholar David Rothkopf: ''When the cold war ended, we thought we were going to have a clash of civilizations. It turns out we're having a clash of generations.''
Indeed, if there is one sentiment that unites the crises in Europe and America it is a powerful sense of ''baby boomers behaving badly'' -- a powerful sense that the generation that came of age in the last 50 years, my generation, will be remembered most for the incredible bounty and freedom it received from its parents and the incredible debt burden and constraints it left on its kids. 
It is no wonder that young Greeks reacted so harshly when their deputy prime minister, Theodoros Pangalos, referring to all the European Union loans and subsidies that propelled the Greek credit binge after 1981, said, ''We ate it together'' -- meaning the people and the politicians. That was true of the baby boomer generation of Greeks, now in their 50s and 60s, and the baby boomer politicians. But those just coming of age today will never get a bite. They will just get a bill. And they know it.
You can see that when you walk around Athens's central Syntagma Square, where young people now gather every evening to debate the crisis and register their protests at the future being imposed on them. The facades of banks around the square have been defaced, and flapping in the wind are two large banners. One says ''IMF Employee of the Year'' and has a picture of Prime Minister George Papandreou, and the other says ''Goldman Sachs Employee of the Year'' and pictures George Papaconstantinou, the former finance minister. (And these are the good guys, trying to fix the problem.) Nearby is a picture of a baby, saying: ''Father, whose side were you on when they were selling our country?'' And the more blunt: ''Yield to rage,'' ''Class war, not national war,'' and, finally, ''Life -- not just survival'' -- a message that seemed filled with foreboding about what the next decade is going to be like for young Greeks.
I was struck by one big similarity between what I heard in Tahrir Square in Cairo in February and what one hears in Syntagma Square today. It's the word ''justice.'' You hear it more than ''freedom.'' That is because there is a deep sense of theft in both countries, a sense that the way capitalism played out in Egypt and Greece in the last decade was in its most crony-esque, rigged and corrupt deformation, letting some people get fantastically rich simply because of their proximity to power. So there is a hunger not just for freedom, but for justice. Or, as Rothkopf puts it, ''not just for accounting, but for accountability.''
''There are no jokes about this crisis,'' the Greek novelist Christos Chomenidis told me. ''Everyone is in a bad temper. It feels like nearly everyone is against everyone. If the economic situation gets worse and worse, I am afraid for what can happen.''
The other day striking Greek cabdrivers tried to muscle their way into the minister of infrastructure's office -- only to discover that it was already full of his own ministry's striking employees. Take a number, please.
That brings up another similarity between Greece and America: that the necessary may be impossible, that baby boomer politicians in the age of Twitter may not be up to addressing problems this big. The hole is too deep and power too fragmented. The only way out is by collective action -- where ruling and opposition parties unite, share the pain and take the necessary steps. But that is not happening here or in Washington. There are Eric Cantors everywhere -- reckless baby boomer politicians for whom no crisis is too serious to set aside political ambition and ideology.
But there is an adult lurking. China has been buying Spanish, Portuguese and Greek bonds to help stabilize these Chinese export markets. ''These are delicate times, and we take a positive role,'' Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, told the British newspaper The Guardian in January.
This is a role America used to play, but can no longer afford. Anyone who thinks that this economic crisis, if prolonged, won't also hasten a global power shift has never heard of the Golden Rule: He who has the gold, sets the rules. ''We are so used to the Americans providing the solutions for Europe and leading,'' said Vassilis T. Karatzas, a Greek money manager. ''But what happens when we are both in the same boat?''
What happens is that both the American and European dreams hang in the balance. Either we both put our nations on more sustainable growth paths -- which requires cutting, taxing and investing for the future -- or we're looking at a world in which democracies are going to turn on themselves and fight over shrinking pies, with China having a growing say over how big the slices will be.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Egypt and in Greece, ''justice'' has been a watchword among disaffected young people. Top, a crowd in Cairo's Tahrir Square in February. Above, a protester in Athens in June. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HANNIBAL HANSCHKE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 YANNIS BEHRAKIS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); THEATER (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); COLD WAR (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE PAPANDREOU (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (65%) GREECE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



612 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: New Stable of Wealthy Donors Fueled Obama Campaign's Record Fund-Raising Quarter

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Kitty Bennett, Griff Palmer and Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
President Obama recruited roughly 150 new elite donors, raising as much as a half a million dollars each, to help propel him to a large and early lead over his Republican opponents in the race for campaign cash, according to campaign filings released last week.
The new fund-raisers, including Silicon Valley executives, people active in gay rights causes and onetime supporters of Hillary Rodham Clinton, dominate the list of top donors that Mr. Obama's campaign released on Friday, according to an analysis by The New York Times. Known as bundlers, they are typically deep-pocketed supporters who tap friends and business associates to raise money for candidates. 
Their presence, along with the names of more than 100 veterans of Mr. Obama's formidable 2008 fund-raising operation, suggests that the president and his aides have moved quickly to replenish the ranks of top fund-raisers as he prepares for an onslaught of advertising next year mounted by independent groups in support of his Republican opponent.
More than half a million people have donated to the president's campaign or his joint fund with the Democratic National Committee since Mr. Obama formally entered the race in April, and the two accounts gained a combined record-breaking $86 million for the campaign by the end of June. But Mr. Obama's bundlers -- 271 in all -- accounted for at least 40 percent of the total, according to the campaign's estimates.
Mr. Obama's elite donor corps live in 26 states and the District of Columbia, though a vast majority live in the traditional centers of political fund-raising: Texas, Florida, California and, above all, New York.
Thirty-one of his bundlers collected in excess of $500,000 each in contributions, according to the campaign. They included the Hollywood mogul Jeffrey Katzenberg; two hedge fund managers, Orin Kramer and Blair Effron; and Andres W. Lopez, a wealthy Puerto Rico lawyer and law school classmate of Mr. Obama.
Others who have bundled large checks for Mr. Obama include Andy Spahn, a close friend and consultant to Steven Spielberg; Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue; and Jon S. Corzine, the former New Jersey governor.
The newer generation of Obama bundlers reflects the Obama operation's gradual absorption of the Democrats' traditional large donors, some of whom did not raise money for him during the 2008 campaign. Some were prominent supporters of Mrs. Clinton, his primary opponent that year.
''These are the traditional large donors to Democratic candidates,'' said Ellen S. Miller, executive director of the Sunlight Foundation, a government watchdog group. ''They are giving a lot more than $69,'' she added -- the size of the average contribution to Mr. Obama's campaign, according to aides.
But Mr. Obama, who pushed to end the ''don't, ask, don't tell'' policy, has also attracted new bundlers among gay rights activists, including Wally Brewster, a Chicago real estate executive, and Barry Karas, a former board member of the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights group. Mr. Obama has also won over new bundlers and donors in Silicon Valley, a constituency he has cultivated aggressively as president.
Mr. Obama is the only candidate so far to voluntarily disclose his bundlers, as he did in 2008, along with the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain. None of the other Republican candidates this year have committed to doing so, leaving unclear just how much they are dependent on big donors.
''President Bush disclosed his bundlers, but the current G.O.P. field has not followed suit, raising questions about the extent to which special interests are funding their campaigns,'' said Ben LaBolt, an Obama campaign spokesman. ''More than 552,000 Americans have funded ours.''
There is little doubt that Mr. Obama has built a small-donor operation that any of his rivals would envy. The campaign has added about 260,000 new donors so far this year to the database of close to four million supporters listed in 2008.
But Mr. Obama's election filings suggest that the president's grassroots machinery is being financed by a relatively small group of big-ticket donors. The largest individual checks Mr. Obama raised -- up to $30,800 per donor -- went to a joint account with the Democratic National Committee, which can accept contributions far in excess of the $5,000 Mr. Obama may accept from any individual person over the course of his campaign.
Those large checks fueled a $38 million haul that Democrats are using to open field offices. Less than 2 percent of that total came from checks of less than $200, according to Mr. Obama's campaign filings.
The growth of Mr. Obama's bundler network -- amid difficult economic conditions that Republican candidates have blamed for their own relatively low fund-raising numbers so far -- also reflects the tremendous institutional advantages that any incumbent president brings to raising campaign cash.
In March, for example, Mr. Obama hosted about 30 supporters, many with ties to Wall Street, at an informal discussion in the Blue Room of the White House about financial regulation and the economy. No money was raised at the event, which was similar to receptions and events held by past presidents.
But 17 of those guests appeared on Friday's list of bundlers for Mr. Obama's re-election campaign, accounting for a minimum of $3.95 million of the $86 million he raised.
''It's high-priced access to closed policy discussions with deep-pocketed individuals, just like it's always been,'' Ms. Miller said.
But incumbency can also complicate fund-raising. Only about one in five of the supporters who bundled checks for Mr. Obama last time appear on the list disclosed by his campaign Friday.
One reason for the drop-off: Upon taking office, Mr. Obama appointed dozens of his top fundraisers to ambassadorships, government advisory boards or jobs in his administration, perches from which they may be prohibited from raising campaign money for the president. One such supporter, Matthew Barzun, resigned in April as the United States ambassador to Sweden to become the Obama campaign's national finance chairman.
Mr. Obama, unlike his Republican opponents, has made a point of swearing off contributions from registered lobbyists and corporate political action committees.
But the president's bundlers include business executives whose companies have substantial interests before the federal government. Marc Benioff, who raised more than $500,000, is also chairman of Salesforce.com, a company whose software the Obama administration has adopted for wide use in federal agencies. Another bundler, Michael Kempner, is president of the MWW Group, a national public affairs company that has a lobbying practice in Washington.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Money Race: Nine presidential candidates raised more than $80 million for their campaigns in the second quarter of 2011, according to reports filed with the Federal Election Commission. (Source: Federal Election Commission) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (56%); LGBT RIGHTS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JON CORZINE (57%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (50%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



613 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ON THE RISE IN TAJIKISTAN,
ISLAM WORRIES GOVERNMENT
Islam is blossoming in Tajikistan after decades of enforced secularism, as the people of the impoverished former Soviet republic have been flocking to their traditional religion with all the zeal of born-again movements anywhere in the world. Spooked by the specter of Islamic radicalism and the challenges posed by influential religious leaders, the authoritarian government has been working fervently to curb religious expression. Page 6
PRIZE CANCELED AFTER OUTCRY
A German nonprofit group, Quadriga, canceled its annual prize ceremony awarding ''role models for Germany'' after its decision to honor Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia prompted a public outcry among the ranks of those who believe that he helped roll back democracy and human rights in Russia and that, far from being a role model, he is unworthy of the honor. Page 9 
NO RELIEF FOR NEW ZEALAND
The magnitude 7.1 earthquake that hit Christchurch, New Zealand, 10 months ago did not directly cause a single death. But there have been more than 7,300 aftershocks, including one in February that killed 181 people. The repeated shaking has become the costliest disaster in the country's history. Page 8
VATICAN-BEIJING RIFT
The Vatican said a Chinese bishop ordained without papal approval had been excommunicated from the Catholic Church, bringing relations between the Vatican and Beijing to a new low. Page 9
CLINTON CHIDES TURKEY
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said that she was troubled by Turkey's arrests of dozens of journalists and that it was ''inconsistent'' with the economic and political progress the country has made. Page 10
National
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE
FACES LIMITS IN MILITARY
With the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy likely to end this fall, advocates for gay and lesbian service members are looking to overturn discrepancies in benefits that will remain for same-sex married couples. Under current law, particularly the Defense of Marriage Act, the Pentagon is prohibited from giving federally financed benefits, like health insurance, certain death benefits and legal counseling, to same-sex married couples. Page 15
NEW CUOMO-LABOR DEAL
New York State's second-largest union of public workers, facing hundreds of layoffs that had been scheduled to take effect within days, agreed to significant wage and benefit concessions in order to save the jobs of its members. The Public Employees Federation agreed to forgo any raises for three years, accept furlough days for the first time and to increase the amount members contribute toward their health insurance coverage. Page 16
FREEWAY WORK UNDER WAY
As promised, Los Angeles shut down a 10-mile stretch of Interstate 405, putting out of commission one of the most heavily traveled highways in the country to accommodate the latest phase of a $1 billion widening project. City officials pledged that the work would be finished by 5 a.m. Monday, plenty of time for the morning commute -- and back to the typically horrendous traffic conditions. Page 13
POLITICAL PLEDGES ON RISE
Candidate pledges, an incidental part of past presidential elections, have exploded this year as advocacy groups seek to hold a future Republican president accountable once in office. The pledges aim to impose litmus tests on candidates and discourage them from altering positions later under political pressure. Page 14
Metropolitan
AWAITING A WRECKING BALL
IN THE EAST VILLAGE
Two East Village buildings, at 11 Second Avenue and 9 Second Avenue, are set to be torn down in August and replaced by a 12-story, 65-unit tower, the sort of glossy glass location that has been sprouting up in the city in recent years. With the buildings dies another piece of an older, messier New York, one made remarkable by the fact that it has existed for so long. Page 1
SUMMER'S TATTOO ETIQUETTE
Naked-flesh season is in full swing , and lots of tattoos are exposed with it. That raises all sorts of etiquette questions: If you have a tattoo of, say, a naked woman on your biceps, are you required to cover it up if someone under 17 without accompanying parent or adult guardian passes by? City Critic. Page 4
HELD IN DIVORCE LIMBO
A Brooklyn woman and her partner got a same-sex civil union in Vermont but were unable to divorce in New York because the state did not recognize their status. The trials and tribulations of trying to undo it took six and a half years and ended in State Supreme Court. PAGE 1
Obituaries
ARDIS JAMES, 85
Ardis Butler James established, with her husband, what is now the largest public collection of quilts in the world, encompassing humbly elegant bed coverings by anonymous 18th-century hands and avant-garde wall hangings by celebrated 21st-century artists. Page 19
GEOFF FISKEN, 96
A New Zealand-born sheep farmer turned combat fighter, Geoff Fisken led a seemingly charmed life in the Pacific theater of World War II, shooting down at least 11 Japanese planes and becoming the British Commonwealth's No. 1 fighter pilot in the Pacific. Page 18
Sports
QUESTION ON TITLE IX
AT COMMUNITY COLLEGES
Even as they play an increasingly vital role in American higher education, community colleges are routinely failing to provide enough athletic opportunities to women, as required under Title IX, the federal law banning sex discrimination in education. Many community colleges offer an array of options for men but just a single team for women. Page 1
DEALING WITH THE GLARE
While acknowledgment of the issue varies from team to team and player to player, doctors say light-eyed athletes who frequently participate in day games face increased obstacles, and even future health risks, as they repeatedly battle the sun. Page 2
MURKY FREE AGENT POOL
At some point, perhaps soon, the N.F.L. and its players will reach a new labor agreement, and the great free-agent gold rush of 2011 will begin. But for now, for as many as 500 free agents, there is no courting going on, only anticipation for what comes next and more labor pains induced in the form of unemployment. Page 6
A TEENAGER'S FOLLOWERS
Sim Bhullar, a 17-year-old from Toronto, is poised to become the world's first prominent men's basketball player of Indian descent. Bhullar's emergence would be a boon for increasing the popularity of the game in India, with a population about 1.2 billion, five million of whom play basketball. Page 6
GIRARDI ACCUSES BLUE JAYS
Yankees Manager Joe Girardi's frustration with his team's poor play in the last two games seemed to boil when he all but accused the Toronto Blue Jays of employing off-the-field means to steal the Yankees' signs. He said he was not ''100 percent sure'' but he thought Toronto ''could be'' getting off-the-field help in stealing signs. PAGE 4
Sunday Business
EGYPT'S ENTREPRENEURS
LOOK BEYOND THE REVOLUTION
Six months after an uprising overturned the established order of the Arab world, an emerging class of young entrepreneurs hopes to make Egypt a technology hot spot. For all the uncertainties facing the country, some of those who embraced Facebook and Twitter during those heady days in Tahrir Square are now busily trying to start or continue working on Web sites and applications that they hope will yield profits and jobs. Page 1
WEIGHING DIGITAL RECORDS
When well designed and wisely used, electronic health records can deliver the power of better information to medicine, improving care and curbing costs. But computer forms can also be difficult to use, cluttered and distracting, causing more harm than good in health care. The Obama administration plans to develop standards to measure how effective and easy digital patient records are to use. Page 3
Automobiles
CHEVY CONVERTIBLES: COLLECTING THE FULL SET
After buying a '57 Bel Air convertible from a golfing buddy in 1998, Dennis Albaugh's next Chevy purchase was a '58. He then decided to complete the set of the so-called Tri-Five Chevrolets, the models built for 1955, 1956 and 1957. PAGE 1
G.M. CONSIDERS DIESEL
General Motors is said to have plans to attract more buyers to Chevrolet showrooms by introducing a diesel-powered version of the Cruze, the compact sedan that was the country's best-selling car in June. PAGE 1
Magazine
THE WOULD-BE PRINCE
OF PORT-AU-PRINCE
Wyclef Jean, a Haitian born rapper, producer and star of the now disbanded Fugees, mounted his own run for the presidency in Haiti, but was disqualified from the race because he lives in the United States. PAGE 34
THE MAKE-BELIEVER
Miranda July is the most honest, uninhibited filmmaker of our time. Or: She's twee, precious and maddening. Discuss. Nicely. PAGE 24
THE ALL-AMERICAN
John Kerry knows as well as anyone that diplomacy fails most of the time. But someone has to go to Islamabad. PAGE 18
THERE'S NO 'I' IN 'TEA'
Kevin McCarthy, the House majority whip, has a tough job: getting the Tea Party freshmen to play well with others. PAGE 30
Book Review
HIGH CULTURE OR LOW,
PUSHING CRUELTY'S LIMITS
Maggie Nelson has her laments about violent representations in the media, but in ''The Art of Cruelty,'' she refreshingly aims them largely up the cultural ladder, at the fine arts, literature and poetry. PAGE 1
GOTTA KEEP ROLLIN'
In exploring the creation of the expressway system in ''The Big Roads,'' Earl Swift describes the journey of America's roads from an ''anarchic jumble'' to a functioning Interstate, and the men behind the project come along for the ride. PAGE 15
EDITORIAL
DROUGHT: A CREEPING DISASTER
Floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, tsunamis and other extreme weather have left a trail of destruction during the first half of 2011. But this could be just the start to a remarkable year of bad weather. Next up: drought. In the South, 14 states are now baking in blast-furnace conditions. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 3
COULD ANYONE MISS WAR?
The idea that a psychologically healthy person could miss war seems an affront to the idea that war is evil. Combat is supposed to feel bad because undeniably bad things happen in it, but a fully human reaction is far more complex than that. If we civilians don't understand that complexity, we won't do a very good job of bringing these people home and making a place for them in our society. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 4
OP-ED
MAUREEN DOWD
Shakespeare proposed killing all the lawyers. But lately government lawyers have been busy killing their own cases. The latest prosecutorial implosion took place in federal court here on Thursday, when the case against Roger Clemens, who was charged with lying to Congress about using steroids and human growth hormone, was declared a mistrial. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 5
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
One sentiment that unites the crises in Europe and America is a powerful sense that the generation that came of age in the last 50 years, my generation, will be remembered most for the incredible debt burden and constraints it left on its kids. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (88%); MARRIAGE (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EARTHQUAKES (73%); HISTORY (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); MARRIAGE LAW (68%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TAJIKISTAN (94%); HOLY SEE (93%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (90%); CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



614 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE CHATTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 193 words

 BODY:
''Europe'sreluctance to faceup to the problemof its banks is verydangerous.''George Soros, the hedge fund executive, who advocates a centralized regulatory authority and a Europe-wide deposit guarantee system. 
''I think we have tokeep all the optionson the table.''Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, who gave a subdued account of the economy's health last week and said that the Fed was prepared to expand its economic aid campaign once again, if necessary, though such a step was not imminent.
''We wanted toprove we coulddo it.''Diana D. Tremblay, General Motors head of global manufacturing, on producing the subcompact Chevrolet Sonic in a Michigan plant with limits on manufacturing space and wages. Conventional wisdom holds that subcompacts can't be built in the United States because they are pricedtoo low to cover the high overhead.
''There is still a very large continuing demand for DVDs, both from our existing members as well as nonmembers.''Jessie Becker, vice president of marketing for Netflix, which is sharply increasing the price of its Internet-plus- DVDs plan. The price of a streaming-only subscription will remain the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); NETFLIX INC (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (55%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (73%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



615 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Dalai Lama And Obama Meet to Talk About Tibet

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama met privately with the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader of Tibet, at the White House on Saturday, despite a warning from Beijing that the meeting would risk damaging relations between China and the United States. 
Reflecting the diplomatic delicacy of the visit, the 44-minute meeting with the Dalai Lama -- Mr. Obama's second as president -- was closed to the news media. China considers Tibet its territory and the Dalai Lama a separatist, although he favors self-rule rather than independence.
The Dalai Lama underscored that point in his conversation with Mr. Obama, according to a White House summary of the meeting. The White House statement also reflected the delicate balance Mr. Obama sought to strike, saying he expressed ''strong support'' for direct talks and a resolution between China and Tibet that protects both Tibetans' rights and China's claim to the territory. But Mr. Obama also ''stressed the importance he attaches to building a U.S.-China cooperative partnership.''
''The president reiterated his strong support for the preservation of the unique religious, cultural and linguistic traditions of Tibet and the Tibetan people throughout the world,'' the statement said. ''He underscored the importance of the protection of human rights of Tibetans in China.''
The meeting came at a particularly delicate time as China, the largest creditor to the United States, has expressed concern about the risk of a default on American bonds if Mr. Obama and Republicans cannot break their impasse over raising the nation's legal debt limit.
Beijing on Saturday reiterated its call for Mr. Obama to cancel the meeting, according to China's official news agency, Xinhua. ''The issue regarding Tibet concerns China's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and we firmly oppose any foreign official to meet with the Dalai Lama in any form,'' the Chinese Foreign Ministry said.
Mr. Obama declined to meet with the Dalai Lama in his first year as president, in October 2009, drawing international criticism as seeming to put economic interests with China ahead of human rights. The administration said the two would meet after Mr. Obama's first trip a month later to China, where the United States was eager for Chinese cooperation in preventing nuclear proliferation in North Korea and Iran. Their introduction came the following February.
The Dalai Lama, a recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, has lived in exile in India since 1959, when China repressed a Tibetan uprising. He was in Washington for a Buddhist celebration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); LINGUISTICS (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DALAI LAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIBET (94%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



616 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 5190 words

HEADLINE: There's No 'I' In 'Tea'

BYLINE: By ROBERT DRAPER

 BODY:
Most mornings when he is in Washington, the House majority whip, Kevin McCarthy, wakes up at 6 a.m. on his office sofa -- which is a slight improvement over the air mattress he once slept on, and probably better than the houseboat that a fellow Republican congressman, Lynn Westmoreland, has half-jokingly tried to convince him to share. McCarthy pulls on some ratty gym clothes, descends three flights of stairs and exits the building, where, when the weather is agreeable, he meets up with about a half-dozen other G.O.P. members on their mountain bikes. Together they cruise along the Mall, past the Lincoln Memorial, across a bridge and along the Potomac River. An hour later, McCarthy will shower in the House gym, head off to breakfast with some other gaggle of Republicans, attend the morning management meeting with Speaker John Boehner and Eric Cantor, the majority leader, huddle throughout the day with his whip staff and committee chairmen and conservative advocacy groups and random needy or disgruntled members until it's finally evening and time to round up a bunch of other Republican colleagues for a dinner that can go on for several hours because McCarthy takes it upon himself to draw the others out from their professional shells with questions like, ''What's the most embarrassing thing that happened to you at college?'' or ''What was the first concert you went to?' 
' By 11 at night, he is back on his office couch with his BlackBerry and the next day's briefings, some 2,300 miles from his wife and son and daughter in Bakersfield, Calif. -- and then asleep, in a federal building, by 1 a.m.
One of McCarthy's morning cycling mates is Sean Duffy, a 39-year-old freshman and Tea Party sensation from Wisconsin who was once a county prosecutor and, before that, a professional lumberjack and star in MTV's reality series ''The Real World.'' Several of the freshmen live in their House offices so as to pronounce themselves detached from the culture of Washington. Duffy also does so because he has six young children and thousands of dollars of debt accumulated during the seven months he spent without a salary before being elected to Congress.
McCarthy says that Duffy has more pressure on him than any other freshman. He arrived as the savant of the political season, a novice who forced the retirement of the 41-year Democratic incumbent and House Appropriations Committee chairman, David Obey. Within weeks of taking office, the Democratic attack ads began and now seem to accompany Duffy's every vote. In June, Duffy became a ''patriot,'' the National Republican Congressional Committee's euphemism for its most vulnerable incumbents. His town-hall meetings have been edgy. His young family misses him while he spends weeknights on a cot in the Longworth building. After Duffy delivered a painfully unfunny speech at the annual Congressional Dinner in February, McCarthy consoled him by saying, ''I did really badly at that same event two years earlier.'' Duffy had actually seen McCarthy's speech on cable TV and thought it was pretty awesome.
McCarthy knows who the resident whiners are, and Duffy is not one of them. But the lumberjack who pledged in his campaign ads to ''take the axe to Washington'' occasionally looks as if a tree has just fallen on him. ''Don't overbook yourself,'' McCarthy tells him. ''Get more sleep. Are you doing things in person that you could do on the phone? Are you doing things that your staff ought to be doing?'' But Duffy's fretfulness stems in part from the path his own party is taking. He expressed discomfort to McCarthy over the votes in January to repeal aspects of Obama's health care bill. The Republicans, he said, should have solutions of their own. McCarthy assured him that ''there'll be replacement legislation after the repeal, trust me.'' Duffy stayed with his party on those votes. But he couldn't vote to defund NPR, given his rural district's reliance on public radio for weather updates and news.
''Then vote that way,'' McCarthy said. And so with the whip's blessings, Sean Duffy sided against his party.
The job of House Republican majority whip -- which is to gather sufficient votes to pass the party's agenda on the House floor -- would seem, at first blush, inappropriate for someone who is approximately as menacing as a summer-camp counselor. The word ''whip'' implies coercion and brings to mind the dark, backroom persuasions of Tom DeLay, known as the Hammer (who, truthfully, was never that much of a knuckle-breaker, though apparently he loved having that reputation). In the end, there's only so much control House leaders can exert over a congressman who answers to voters back home. Whips tend to recognize this and, at least in recent years, have relied more on cajoling than threats. McCarthy, who is 46, represents the affable extreme of this philosophy. In his sunny view, ''A conference united around policies creates better legislation than using intimidation.''
Actually achieving that sort of unity is easier said than done -- and particularly so because of the House majority's freshman class. The 87 new members constitute more than a third of the 239-member Republican caucus and are the reason that the G.O.P. now controls the House. Nearly 40 percent of them are self-styled ''citizen politicians'' who have never held office and who rode into Washington on the Tea Party wave. Taken as a group, the freshmen are at least as conservative as the foot soldiers of Newt Gingrich's 1994 Republican revolution, a 73-member mixed bag that would eventually produce eight U.S. senators, one TV star (Joe Scarborough), one felon (Bob Ney) and one correctional officer (Jim Bunn). The difference is that the class of 1994 was thoroughly beholden (for a couple of years, anyway) to Gingrich, while this year's group harbors no particular allegiance either to Boehner or to the well-being of the Republican Party. As Tim Griffin, a freshman from Arkansas, put it to me, ''A lot of us feel that we're here on a mission, and the mission is now, and we're not that concerned about the political consequences.'' That mission -- to throttle the role of the federal government in general and Obama's progressive initiatives specifically -- may seem more like a kamikaze pursuit to some of the freshmen as the 2012 elections get closer and their constituents become increasingly impatient for government solutions. For now, however, they and their Tea Party backers constitute the most formidable power bloc on Capitol Hill.
Boehner has responded to these realities with the laissez-faire mantra ''Let the House work its will.'' But neither he nor Cantor (who clearly intends to occupy Boehner's post someday) nor the caucus's comparatively moderate senior members want to see the G.O.P. freshmen vote the party over a cliff. And so to hold the caucus together, McCarthy's delicate approach has been to acknowledge the independence of the hot-blooded new charges while instilling in them a sense of team loyalty -- and thereby moving them, ever so gently, to a victory that will be enduring rather than Pyrrhic.
''Kevin probably has a better handle on the freshmen than anybody else here,'' Boehner told me. It's an unlikely bond that McCarthy has forged with the new arrivals. His own rise to power was enabled by years of grooming in Bakersfield by his mentor, the former House Ways and Means Committee chairman Bill Thomas, whose retirement allowed his ambitious young aide to claim his seat. Once in Washington, McCarthy networked and fund-raised his way up the food chain, and in four short years became the third-ranking House Republican. His ascent, in other words, involves the very type of Beltway scheming that the class of 2010 plainly abhors. McCarthy has only attended one Tea Party rally -- in Bakersfield, with Boehner in tow, though neither of them spoke at the event -- and as a congressman has certainly been willing to turn the federal spigots to assist his farming constituents in the San Joaquin Valley. When I asked Duffy if he had a sense of where McCarthy lay on the ideological spectrum, he said, ''That's a good question,'' adding, ''the ideas that are coming to the conference -- he believes in them. You can't talk so passionately and . . . I mean, Kevin lives in California, but he's not an actor.''
McCarthy is a man of indistinct calculations -- ''I don't think being a congressman is going to define me,'' he says cryptically -- but he has won over the freshmen by making his own goals and beliefs beside the point. He recruited many of them, anointed them Young Guns and nurtured them during the 2010 midterm election cycle. Rather than being pawns in some kind of Karl Roveian uberstrategy to achieve lasting Republican pre-/eminence, the freshmen represent McCarthy's more entrepreneurial approach to politics: seize upon a trend (in this case, government phobia), put all your money on it and then work hard to make the trend last. And like an entrepreneur, he casts the considerable strategic risk -- that his troops are unseasoned, volatile and perhaps far out of the mainstream -- as a virtue: ''I believe we're serving in a different time and place. Unconventional is positive. Unconventional gets rewarded.''
Sometimes late at night, the freshmen will drop by McCarthy's other office, the one reserved for the majority whip behind a door marked H-107 on the first floor of the Capitol. The whip's office is the unofficial retreat for the House Republicans -- but particularly for the freshmen, 19 of whom bunk in their own offices across the street. Ostensibly, they amble into H-107 to filch one of McCarthy's granola bars or to get some information on a pending legislative matter. The likelier reason is to relieve boredom or loneliness or the desire to duck out of sight for a while. At times the corporate-/flophouse panorama resembles an airport frequent-flier lounge, complete with beer and wine. ''This is what I want,'' McCarthy told me. ''I want them living in this office.'' More to the point, he wants them to feel a connection to what his office and the Republican leadership are up to. The walls of H-107 subliminally reinforce this sense of belonging, covered as they are with framed images of freshmen alongside senior members, all in black and white like statesmen from some nobler era.
McCarthy suspects that he has an addictive personality, and it's probably for the better that he shuns caffeine. Still, the substance he craves is human interaction. He never sits alone in his whip's office with the door closed so as to summon thoughts or shut out the world. He never eats alone. If invited to a social function, he never fails to drag along at least one colleague. The floor of the House is his neighborhood bar: he sits down to chat with the freshmen women, then jumps into the aisle to receive Duffy's volley of rabbit punches, then collars the liberal Democrat Dennis Kucinich to compliment him on his appearance on ''The Colbert Report.'' (''I didn't know you were a ventriloquist! Pretty cool!'') Bill Thomas, McCarthy's mentor, spent many hours talking with McCarthy about the tax code. But, Thomas says, ''he was more interested in people -- that was his forte, you could say.''
Routinely, during the day, McCarthy gathers some of his Republican colleagues in the conference room of H-107 to decide how they're going to save America. In previous months, these ''listening sessions,'' as McCarthy calls them, focused on the Republican budget legislation written by Paul Ryan and taken to the House floor in April. The initiative would shrink the percentage of federal nonsecurity discretionary spending (relative to gross domestic product) to pre-Great Depression levels, convert Medicare to a sort of voucher system, shift more of the cost of Medicaid to states and preserve the Bush tax cuts for wealthy Americans. Several of the more senior members worried that the Medicare provision in particular was going too far. (McCarthy's chief deputy whip, Peter Roskam, says, ''One of them said, 'It's been great serving with you -- I'm going to be a former member of Congress.' '') The freshmen overwhelmingly supported what Ryan was up to -- to the extent that McCarthy and the House Budget Committee chairman would murmur to each other: ''Wow. We can go further on entitlements. If we don't, these guys probably won't even support the bill.''
In the end, all but four Republicans voted for the Ryan budget plan. Immediately after the vote on April 15, Ryan sought out the whip on the House floor, shook his hand and told him, ''Your listening sessions made the difference.'' But a month later, a reliably Republican seat in the 26th District of New York fell in a special election to Kathy Hochul, a Democrat who campaigned relentlessly on her opponent's support of the Ryan plan. Exultant Democrats (and some moderate Republicans) think that the House conservatives disastrously overreached and that the 2012 election will now be about -- as Nancy Pelosi brazenly put it a few of weeks ago -- ''Medicare, Medicare and Medicare.'' The Republican leadership sees it differently. A recent Bloomberg poll shows that a majority of Americans support cutting government spending and taxes. (The same poll indicates that far more Americans fear a full Republican takeover than a second Obama term.) With few exceptions, the freshmen have shown surprising poise and resolve after encountering anti-Republican ''Mediscare'' activism at their town-hall meetings. It's for this reason that McCarthy believes the public will ultimately reward his party's show of political fortitude. ''We put our ideas out there,'' he says. ''They haven't. That gives us protection.''
Of course, the current topic in H-107 has been the debt ceiling, the legal limit that the federal government is authorized to borrow, and which Congress has raised largely without incident 10 times in the past decade alone. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has said that the government will be unable to meet its financial obligations by Aug. 2 unless Congress permits it to borrow more. The freshmen have not been shy on this subject, either. McCarthy informally polled them when they first came to town in November for orientation. All but four of them said they would vote against raising the ceiling, under any circumstances. Then McCarthy (along with Ryan and the House Ways and Means chairman, Dave Camp) began conducting more listening sessions. The whip recognized that it would be counterproductive to lecture the freshmen about the economic hazards of not raising the debt ceiling. He also realized that it's one thing to pass a budget -- which in the end is a nonbinding political document -- and another thing to throw America into default. And so McCarthy has urged them to consider raising the ceiling under certain conditions and thus to view this moment as a golden opportunity to force significant changes from the White House. ''We all ran for a reason,'' he tells them. ''What's most of concern to you? What is it that we think will change America?''
As a result, the freshmen have begun to move away from a hard ''no'' on raising the debt ceiling to a ''yes, if.'' In the conference room, several freshmen have said they'll vote to raise the ceiling only if the president agrees to repeal his health care legislation. Or if Obama signs into law a constitutional amendment to balance the budget, after all 50 states have ratified it. Or if he'll agree to mandatory caps on all nondefense spending. Or if he'll enact the Ryan budget. The whip writes down all their ideas on a notepad. He never tells them that they're being unrealistic -- that two-thirds of the Senate and three-fourths of the state Legislatures are unlikely to pass a balanced-budget amendment. McCarthy's indulgence of their ideas isn't just a patronizing gesture, however. Already in the budget talks supervised by Vice President Joe Biden, the Democrats have signaled that they'll agree to deep cuts and possible entitlement reforms -- the kinds of concessions they would never have made on their own. By staking out a position far to the right, the House Republicans are tugging the White House and the Senate much farther in their direction than almost any Washington insider would have predicted. They're winning, in other words. The question is whether McCarthy can convince the freshmen and their Tea Party benefactors to see it that way.
McCarthy's tenacious optimism has been crucial to his party's resurgence. On the night of Obama's inauguration in 2009, he told beleaguered Republicans over dinner: ''Let's not act like the minority. Let's challenge them on every single bill and on every single campaign -- and let's do it right away.'' Before some of the newly elected Democrats could get comfortable, McCarthy began raising money to run attack ads in their districts. Later he oversaw the drafting of the Pledge to America, which became the de facto Republican campaign script for 2010. McCarthy's gift for salesmanship proved decisive when Boehner appointed him the party's chief recruiter for the midterm elections. Sean Duffy spoke with McCarthy constantly throughout the campaign. So did a South Dakota farmer named Kristi Noem -- though she received what she calls ''good messaging advice'' covertly, as Noem's entire campaign was based on her wholesale rejection of Beltway orthodoxy. McCarthy's signature discovery was a folksy but canny cotton farmer and gospel singer from Frog Jump, Tenn., named Stephen Fincher who had never run for elective office but who would later acknowledge to me, with pitch-perfect understatement, that he ''was blessed with the ability to raise money.''
McCarthy also went to work on another Tennessee recruit, a bald physician named Scott DesJarlais, and instructed him to shave his goatee. DesJarlais wanted to know why that was so important. ''Michael Phelps shaves his entire body to gain one-tenth of one second,'' McCarthy replied. ''I think that goatee is costing you 5 percent of the vote.'' The next time the men encountered each other, DesJarlais had shaved, and McCarthy decided he was serious.
Today the whiskerless doctor who campaigned against Obama's ''socialist'' agenda and ''the destructive consequences of unnecessary government meddling'' is a congressman. Barely three months into his tenure, DesJarlais found himself signing a joint letter to President Obama to request ''crucial'' federal assistance for flood victims in his district. McCarthy's whip office helped throw together a manual for DesJarlais and other freshmen representing disaster-stricken districts. The document, which includes contact information for FEMA and other federal agencies, implicitly strikes a note of caution: the government you bashed in 2010 is the government you may need in 2011.
One of the first freshmen to encounter a natural disaster was Renee Ellmers, a former intensive-care nurse. The North Carolina congresswoman texted McCarthy on the afternoon of Saturday, April 16, to inform him that she wouldn't be able to make it back to Washington the next morning to be on ABC's ''This Week With Christiane Amanpour'' with a panel of freshmen because a tornado had struck in Wake County. While Ellmers tended to victims at a Red Cross shelter late that evening, McCarthy suggested to her that she have ABC send a satellite crew to her in North Carolina instead.
Ellmers is one of the handful of freshmen whom McCarthy and the National Republican Congressional Committee didn't recruit and didn't assist but who won anyway -- a fact she says she has since reminded him of ''numerous times.'' McCarthy, who can't stand the sight of blood, appreciates the ex-nurse's toughness. Ellmers is one of nine women in this high-testosterone freshman class and has to find her own way of being heard. She barraged McCarthy with e-mails and phone calls saying she saw little sense in the G.O.P. leadership's decision in June to send the White House a message by bringing to the floor a ''clean'' (or condition-free) debt ceiling and then resoundingly voting it down. Sometimes when Ellmers is talking to the whip and doesn't think she's getting through to him, she claps her hands loudly in front of his face. Sometimes McCarthy giggles and claps back.
In contrast to Ellmers, Jon Runyan, of New Jersey, an immense former offensive lineman, is shy and ideologically temperate. One night, while hosting a dinner with several freshmen at an Italian restaurant on Capitol Hill, McCarthy sat next to Runyan and got him to open up. Runyan had been noticing how certain G.O.P. cable-TV perennials were bashing Boehner for negotiating with the White House and the Democratic Senate to avoid a government shutdown during the springtime budget battles. It was hard enough for Runyan and other freshmen to support the leadership without their own colleagues stirring ill feelings. ''You know, when I was playing for the Philadelphia Eagles, we didn't start losing 'til Terrell Owens joined the team,'' he told McCarthy. ''It only takes one guy to bring down a locker room.''
''You've got to tell that story to the conference tomorrow morning,'' McCarthy urged him. Runyan did, and after he was finished, Michele Bachmann -- who was guilty of the very infraction that Runyan was referring to -- went up to the microphone to praise his speech.
Where McCarthy has prodded Runyan to speak up, he has cautioned Michael Grimm to exercise more restraint. Grimm is a natty former F.B.I. undercover special agent -- the mobsters he infiltrated dubbed him Mikey Suits -- who shares his Congressional office with a Yorkshire Terrier named Sebastian and as a result has needlelike teeth marks all over his hands. Grimm won election to his Staten Island and Brooklyn seat with significant Tea Party support. But some of his stands, like defending the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, have infuriated the right, and when the Heritage Action group gave him a low score, Grimm says he got angry. ''I said, 'Kevin, who's our contact at Heritage Action, because I'm gonna call them.' '' The pugnacious freshman later went on Fox to denounce the ''extremists'' in his party. ''Within the conference, a lot of people came up to me and said, 'Thanks for having the guts to say that,' '' he says. Other colleagues, however, think Grimm's outburst amounted to self-immolation. McCarthy has warned him: ''Don't do press for press's sake. They'll bring you up, and they'll also bring you down.''
McCarthy nonetheless sees value in Grimm's zealousness -- ''I'll bet that guy eats an ice cream passionately'' -- and has deputized Grimm to keep tabs on the voting inclinations of a handful of other freshmen. Grimm was hesitant to join the whip team. ''If there's something I think is going to hurt my district or my country -- whip team or no, I'm gonna vote my conscience,'' Grimm says he told McCarthy. ''I know as a whip you need to rely on me for certain votes. And I don't know that I'll be able to do that for you.''
''That's not what our whipping is going to be about,'' McCarthy responded, according to both men. ''It's not going to be about forcing leadership's will on the members.''
Grimm put the whip's assurances to the test April 1, when the Republican majority brought to the floor a transportation bill that would have removed prevailing-wage protections for federally financed construction projects. ''We'd really like to have you on this,'' McCarthy told Grimm.
''Kevin, I can't do it,'' Grimm replied. He reminded McCarthy that his father had been a union man for 45 years. ''I'm not gonna turn my back on my father's friends that I grew up with and respect.''
McCarthy is aware that some senior members might not be amused by the freshman class's willingness to go its own way. He organizes dinners that include old and new members. Hal Rogers, a 30-year congressman and chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said the dinners were a way ''to disabuse them of the view that we're ogres and help them understand what we do and don't do.'' Still, the old bulls can deliver some comeuppance to the insurgents. Grimm's vote to include a pro-union amendment in the transportation bill made the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee chairman, John Mica, ''very upset,'' Grimm says. ''And I get his point: You want me to help you and work with you on things -- but you can't work with me?'' Another committee member says: ''They're starting to wake up. I've had a bunch come to me and say, 'I have a horrible flooding problem, I have a bad bridge.' And I say, 'Well, then, you shouldn't have voted for the earmark ban!' ''
Even McCarthy's light touch can send a signal of reproach or reward. Last month, the entire G.O.P. House conference traveled to the White House to meet with the president. After Obama's remarks, McCarthy, Boehner and the other leaders each asked him a question. Then one question came from a pre/selected freshman. It was Reid Ribble, a former roofing contractor from Wisconsin. McCarthy had heard Ribble tell a story over dinner about a seemingly absurd regulation forbidding laborers from drinking water out of a plastic bottle while up on a roof -- necessitating that they make frequent trips up and down the ladder, where accidents most often occur. The whip loved it and pushed for Ribble to have the chance to address the president.
There was, however, something else for the majority whip to love about Reid Ribble: he had never crossed the G.O.P. leadership on anything important. There was not a chance that leadership would award this moment to someone like Justin Amash, the only freshman to vote against all four of the continuing resolutions; or to Allen West, who in a press release expressed ''disappointment in my own leadership'' over a financing bill that appeared to be using U.S. troops as a political pawn; or to Raul Labrador, who in a closed-door conference accused Boehner of ''abandoning'' conservatives. They and other dissidents are, of course, perfectly free to visit on their own with the president at the White House anytime they wish -- if they can.
At 6 o'clock on the afternoon of May 24, just before the polls closed in the western New York special election, where it looked as if the Democratic candidate Kathy Hochul was going to eke out a victory, I dropped by H-107 to see if the whip was experiencing any misgivings over where the Republicans were headed. I found the freshman Rick Berg and Jason Chaffetz, a sophomore, in McCarthy's office, taking turns tossing a foam ball into a basketball hoop fixed to a door. Chaffetz lobbed me the ball, and I badly misfired. ''The way we play,'' Berg consoled me, ''just hitting the wall counts as a basket.''
My next shot missed the wall. McCarthy let out a high-pitched cackle. By then it was clear that New York's 26th Congressional district was going to fall to the Democrats, in no small measure because of Hochul's attacks on the Ryan budget plan. But McCarthy didn't seem worried. We walked together out of his office, and he took me into the conference room to admire a painting that covered its northern wall. It was a work on loan from Steve Penley, an artist celebrated by Sean Hannity, Glenn Beck and other conservatives for his patriotic themes. The canvas depicts a take on Emanuel Leutze's classic rendering of George Washington crossing the Delaware River on Christmas night 1776, before the Battle of Trenton.
''Now, you know why this was famous,'' McCarthy said to me as he pointed to the characters in the painting. ''This guy is an African-American. And this is a woman. And this is a Native American. Now, no way would they be able to vote, right? But it symbolizes everyone in America rowing in the boat together. So when we do our meetings here,'' he concluded, referring to the freshmen as well as senior Republicans, ''we're all in the boat together!''
I had to ask him, though: where exactly was the boat headed? And who, for that matter, was navigating it? In April, when the Republican leadership decided to back a continuing resolution to keep the government functioning, 59 Republicans defected. The Democratic minority whip, Steny Hoyer, told me with barely disguised pleasure, ''The back-benchers were leading, not the leaders.''
Even if Boehner, Cantor and McCarthy were content with the ideologically drastic direction their boat was taking, a number of their Republican colleagues were clearly not on board. One of them was the Ohio Republican Steve LaTourette, a member of the Tuesday Group, the House G.O.P.'s moderate coalition. LaTourette expressed to me his fear that the Republican majority has misinterpreted its mandate from the 2010 midterms. ''In the three majority shifts I've been a part of, everyone has misread the tea leaves,'' he said. ''We lost in 2006 because 58 percent of the independents voted Democrat, but we had some in our party saying it was because we weren't conservative enough. Then Pelosi's crowd got tossed out, and you had Kucinich and the progressives saying it was because they weren't bold enough. And now here we are, voting every week on abortion or to do away with NPR. I refer to it as feeding the alligator. You stop feeding them, and then they eat you.''
So was McCarthy really all that sanguine about the boat's journey? He listened to my skeptical questioning -- nodding indulgently, as if I were one of his apple-cheeked Young Guns. Then he gestured to the wall-length canvas. ''Just as they planned the surprise attack on the Hessians on Christmas, we've got a plan, too,'' he insisted. ''And we believe where we're going is where people want us to go. The thing is, history has already judged these guys in the boat favorably. We'll be judged in the long term and in the short term''-- meaning, next year at the polls.
''I do know the final place that we're getting to,'' McCarthy said. He would not say where that place was. I followed him up a staircase onto the second floor of the Capitol, and thereupon he waded into the sea of Republicans convened on the House floor. It was a sound-and-fury kind of afternoon, legislatively speaking: there were two Democratic amendments to strike down, a couple of other bills to set aside as unfinished business and ultimately nothing to send over to the Senate that would stand a chance of becoming law. That was the fruit of the day's paddling -- and beyond that lurked the invisible destination. Maybe they would get there, or maybe along the way an alligator would make a fine dinner of them all. Until then, at least one man in the boat was smiling.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 31, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on July 17about Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House majority whip, misstated the level of cuts in government spending relative to gross domestic product as proposed in the legislation passed by the House of Representatives in April. It would have shrunk the percentage of federal nonsecurity discretionary spending, not the percentage of overall federal government spending, to pre-Great Depression levels.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The office of the House majority whip. From left: Steve Womack (foreground), Sean Duffy, Michael Grimm, Nan Hayworth, Martha Roby and Kevin McCarthy. (MM30-MM31)
 The Real World, D.C.: Kevin McCarthy tries to make his majority whip office a welcoming place to House freshmen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK PETERSON/REDUX, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); CYCLING (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (61%); CHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (54%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (54%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: KEVIN MCCARTHY (92%); SEAN DUFFY (89%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); DAVE OBEY (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); LYNN A WESTMORELAND (56%); STEVE WOMACK (56%); MARTHA ROBY (56%); MICHAEL GRIMM (56%); NAN HAYWORTH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011



617 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1715 words

HEADLINE: John Brown Marches On

BYLINE: BENJAMIN SOSKIS and JOHN STAUFFER


HIGHLIGHT: How a tune about the executed abolitionist became the Union's most popular battle song. 

 BODY:
On July 18, 1861, the 12th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry left Fort Warren, in Boston Harbor, and marched through the city for an official review on the Boston Common. Leading the way was the regiment's colonel, Fletcher Webster, the eldest son of Daniel Webster. The regiment's association with such an eminent personage endeared it to Boston's most respectable citizens, who lined the streets and cheered as the men trooped by. On the Common, Edward Everett, representing the "ladies of Boston," presented the regiment with an ornate flag - and then with an equally ornate celebratory address. 
But the day's high point occurred after the festivities, when the men marched back to the fort and the entire regiment took up the song for which they would soon become famous. "John Brown's body lies a mouldering in the grave/ His soul's marching on!" they sang, and then belted out the chorus: "Glory, Hally, Hallelujah/ His soul's marching on!"
The song, adapted from a Methodist camp meeting hymn, had emerged from the improvisations of earlier volunteer militiamen at Fort Warren, the Second Battalion, Light Infantry. When the 12th moved in, they inherited the song and embraced it as their own. "John Brown's Body" quickly made its way outside the fort's walls. A month after the ceremony on the Common, a Boston publisher released sheet music for a version of the song, announcing, "[a]t this time one can hardly walk on the streets for five minutes without hearing it whistled or hummed." 
After the 12th introduced the song to the residents of New York as it marched down Broadway, the New York Tribune, one of the nation's largest circulating papers, republished the lyrics. The song's popularity continued to mount as the 12th made its way to the front, intermingling with other regiments. It soon spread to the entire Army of the Potomac, becoming the Union's most beloved anthem. With its steady, determined cadence, "John Brown's Body" seemed to steel men for battle. "The leaders of the Union army acknowledge its superhuman power for inspiring the ranks," wrote one journalist. But what did Union soldiers mean by singing it? 
The song clearly conjured up the memory of John Brown, the radical abolitionist who in October 1859 led a small band of men on a doomed raid on the federal armory in Harper's Ferry, Va. Brown was captured and hung after spending six weeks in jail, impressing even his captors with his stoicism and Puritanical resolve. At memorial services across the North, pulpits rang out with declarations that John Brown would live on.
To some extent, the Civil War's most popular song guaranteed this fate. For a dedicated core of abolitionists, and for those enlistees in the Union army who were impelled by antislavery ardor, "John Brown's Body" served as a rallying cry. "I want to sing 'John Brown' in the streets of Charleston," announced one Massachusetts infantry captain to his mother, "and ram red-hot abolition down their unwilling throats at the point of the bayonet." As the song spread through the Union ranks, these abolitionists regarded its popularity as portending the incorporation of Brown's antislavery zeal into the North's war effort, which would ultimately culminate in the emancipation of the slaves.
Perhaps no group appreciated the song's emancipationist associations more clearly than African Americans. "John Brown's Body" assumed a prominent place in both spontaneous and planned celebrations of emancipation. Indeed, for bondsmen and women who intuited that freedom was no longer a distant, millennial vision, but an imminent actuality, the song clearly held a subversive attraction: when a visitor to Virginia expressed surprise in hearing slaves singing "John Brown's Body" while laboring in the fields, he asked their master why he allowed them to do so. He was powerless to stop them, the master replied.
But when Northerners belted out "John Brown's Body," were they really celebrating Brown's racial egalitarianism, and pledging the Union's might on its behalf? To invoke John Brown in song could mean different things to different people. In fact, when the Massachusetts Second Battalion first improvised the verse about Brown marching on, they were inspired by a member of their own battalion, a Scotsman who shared the famous abolitionist's name. (In the decades after the war, when the Scottish John Brown's role in the song's origins came to light, some claimed that it disproved the song's antislavery associations. This was, of course, ridiculous, since most of the soldiers and civilians singing the song were not privy to the battalion's joke.) 
Moreover, the song's popularity did not necessarily register the prevalence of widespread abolitionist sentiment, let alone Brown's radical racial egalitarianism. The song, after all, makes no explicit mention of slavery or freedom, nor does it state precisely what purpose Brown's soul would serve in marching on after his body mouldered in the grave. The song instructed soldiers and civilians in the necessity and glory of sacrifice, but it was a sacrifice that could be abstracted from any particular political, economic or social reform program.
Furthermore, when soldiers sang the song, they gave special emphasis not to the first verse, proclaiming the eternal vitality of John Brown's soul, but another, which promised to "Hang Jeff Davis to a sour apple tree." For many, the violence that the song celebrated had little connection to Brown's holy purpose; to the extent that John Brown's soul marched on with these troops, it was re-animated not by the persistence of his antislavery principles so much as by his unembarrassed embrace of violence as a means of achieving them.
And so "John Brown's Body" could serve as an especially potent instrument of anti-Confederate animus and aggression, a sort of musical thumbing of the nose that did not necessarily specify any ideological foundation for the gesture. When a number of the men from the 16th Connecticut regiment were captured by a detail of North Carolinians, "they howled into the ears" of their Confederate captors "John Brown's Body." Hearing the fierce singing, "one would have supposed that we were the captors and they the prisoners," a veteran recalled. And when the 4th Michigan Cavalry, the regiment that captured Confederate president Jefferson Davis, marched to Macon with their prized prisoner, the regimental band played "John Brown's Body."
Not surprisingly, Union troops often chose to mark their triumphant conquest of Confederate cities by singing the song. It became a sort of anthem for Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman's March to the Sea, the scorched-earth campaign he led from Atlanta to Savannah, Ga. After his troops burnt down much of Atlanta and prepared to leave the city, the regimental band of the 33rd Massachusetts began playing "John Brown's Body." Upon leaving the smoldering city, Sherman commented, "Never before or since have I heard the chorus of 'Glory Glory Hallelujah' done with more spirit or in better harmony of time and place."
So did the song celebrate the enduring incorporality of war's aims or the vivid corporality of war's effects? Did its message adhere more to John Brown's triumphant soul or to Jeff Davis' swinging corpse? It was largely the incongruities of its extemporized verses that led several antislavery writers, most famously Julia Ward Howe with her "Battle Hymn of the Republic," to appropriate the song's tune but to rewrite the lyrics, granting them an unambiguously abolitionist meaning. Yet, in the final months of the war, when much of the North seemed to interpret victory as a providential blessing stemming from the emancipation of the slaves, there seemed to be little ambiguity clinging to the abolitionist associations of "John Brown's Body." When, for instance, black troops sang "John Brown's body lies mouldering in the grave" while marching through the streets of Charleston, S.C., William Lloyd Garrison, for decades the North's leading abolitionist, broke down and wept, exclaiming, "Only listen to that in Charleston streets!"
Then again, just as the song could support many different interpretations, so could the war itself. When, in the decades after the conflict's end, the North and South embraced a culture of sectional reunion in which the war was remembered less as a struggle over slavery than as a tragic, ideologically neutered contest pitting the brave boys in blue and grey, "John Brown's Body," with its fiercely partisan and sectional understanding of the war, became increasingly viewed as an inconvenient, and even distasteful, irritant. When the Fisk Jubilee singers, one of the nation's most prominent African-American singing groups, performed "John Brown's Body" in Britain during several tours in the 1870s, it met with rapturous applause. But in the United States, one of the singers recalled, the song was "almost received with groans." The group eventually left it off many of their program. The song continued to be sung by those who wished to protest the reconciliation between North and South, premised on denying the emancipationist meaning of the Civil War. But in most postbellum ceremonies, "John Brown's Body" was displaced by one of its musical offspring, the "Battle Hymn of the Republic." 
With its powerful biblical imagery, the "Battle Hymn" could communicate much of the millennial enthusiasm that had animated John Brown and his supporters. But the hymn could not match the anarchic, democratic vitality that Brown had also bequeathed to the song that bore his name. The loss was significant. For as the 19th century closed and the nation's racial animosities hardened, Americans who struggled to achieve justice for both whites and blacks surely appreciated that it would take more than a song, no matter how powerful or popular, to ensure that John Brown's soul marched on.
Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.
Benjamin Soskis, left, who recently completed his doctorate in history at Columbia, and John Stauffer, chair of the History of American Civilization program at Harvard, are writing a book about the "Battle Hymn of the Republic

        
Hail, Columbia!
        
The Man Who Financed the Civil War
        
Strange Waters
        
The U.S. Capitol at War
        
Evangelicals, Republicans and the Civil War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSIC (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); WRITERS (69%) John Brown; Music; The Battle Hymn of the Republic; the civil war; Brown, John; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Slavery; Disunion

PERSON: Brown, John

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



618 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Penny-Wise Policy

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The consequences of an inadequate stimulus. 

 BODY:
Mark Thoma sends me to Jonathan Schwarz making the case that Obama knew perfectly well that the stimulus should have been bigger. I'm not sure that lets his advisers completely off the hook; there's a big difference between saying, well, the macroeconomic case says this should be bigger, but smaller is OK, and saying -- as they should have, and maybe some did -- that a weak stimulus runs a large risk of setting us on a path toward a lost decade.
Never mind. What really struck me was this quote from Obama that Schwarz found:
Well, we are still in consultation with members of Congress about the final size of the package. We expect that it will be on the high end of our estimates, but [it] will not be as high as some economists have recommended because of the constraints and concerns we have about the existing deficit.
Aside from the fact that Obama was being cautious about the deficit when he really, really shouldn't have been, think about how this has actually played out. A weak stimulus together with caution on other fronts, including mortgage relief, led to a weak economy in 2010. This led to a big GOP victory in the midterms. And this led to Republican success in getting the high-end Bush tax cuts extended for two years and quite possibly indefinitely -- which will do far more damage to the US debt position that a bigger stimulus in 2009 would have done. 
And yes, it's quite possible that even aside from the political-economy angle, the weak stimulus directly made our long-run debt position worse.
Penny-wise, pound-foolish; or make that multi-trillion dollar foolish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



619 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Get Them From The Greeks

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Not a good analogy. 

 BODY:
I've complained a lot about the Hellenization of our economic discourse -- the insistence, in the teeth of evidence, that America is just like Greece in budget terms. Now comes Lindsey Graham to promote the fallacy. So let's talk, again, about why it's nonsense.
Here are net debt levels as a percentage of GDP; source here. Just to forestall the objections, these reflect all levels of government, not just federal:
So the US has much less debt than Greece. Also worth noting is the pattern over time. Greece ran up debt relative to GDP at a fairly good clip even during good times, while the United States -- despite the Bush administration's best efforts -- did not. So America does not have a comparable record of sustained fiscal irresponsibility; we've only developed large deficits in response to the crisis, which happens to be exactly when we should be running large deficits.
And that's not even to get into the issue of us having our own currency.
One more thing: even if you believe, despite all this evidence, that we resemble Greece, what does that say? Fiscal austerity in the face of a depressed economy does little to improve your long-run debt position, and may even hurt it. One thing the advocates of austerity never mention is that it isn't working anywhere right now. Remember how Ireland's early and savage turn to austerity was supposed to reassure markets and bring borrowing costs down?
Steve Benen has it right here: 
If Graham sincerely believes his own rhetoric, he has no idea what he's talking about. If Graham is just playing some kind of cynical game, he's a hack.
I vote for both.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%)

PERSON: LINDSEY GRAHAM (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



620 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Perry 'More Comfortable' With Idea of a Run

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Governor Rick Perry of Texas says he's getting "more and more comfortable every day" with the idea that he might run for the Republican presidential nomination. 

 BODY:
Governor Rick Perry of Texas said Saturday that he's getting "more and more comfortable every day" with the idea that he might run for the Republican presidential nomination.
In an interview with The Des Moines Register, Mr. Perry used spiritual references to suggest that a presidential bid would be something God wants him to do.
"I'm not ready to tell you that I'm ready to announce that I'm in," Mr. Perry told the newspaper. "But I'm getting more and more comfortable every day that this is what I've been called to do. This is what America needs."
In recent weeks, Mr. Perry has given several speeches that suggest that social issues would be a key part of his prospective presidential campaign. Next month, the governor is hosting a day of prayer in Houston.
But supporters of the governor also point to his economic record in Texas, where many jobs were created despite the national downturn during the last several years.
In the Register interview, Mr. Perry said running for president was not a driving force for him. That could be a hint that he might decide not to make the yearlong commitment it would take to win the nomination.
"I'll be real honest with you, I don't wake up in the morning - never did and still don't today - and say, 'Gee, I want to be president of the United States,' " Mr. Perry said.
And yet, he also told the newspaper that his wife and hundreds of people across the nation have urged him to run. He said he would probably decide in the next two to three weeks - just before the Republican straw poll in Ames, Iowa.
If he does jump in, Mr. Perry would have to navigate a field that already has several social conservatives in the race: Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota; former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania; and Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather Pizza.
He would also need to begin raising money quickly. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, reported having raised $18 million in the last three months. The other candidates have each raised several million dollars for their bids.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAUCUSES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); JOB CREATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (53%) The Caucus

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); MITT ROMNEY (59%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); HERMAN CAIN (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



621 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Pain Builds In Europe's Sovereign Debt Risk

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- European banks for years bolstered their balance sheets with assets considered safe and secure: the sovereign debt of European countries.
But now this debt no longer appears so safe, weakening banks when countries still depend on them for loans to help finance their gaping budget deficits.
The results of the latest European bank stress test, released on Friday, revealed in greater detail than was previously known just how exposed Europe's banks are to the government bonds of Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy, which are losing more value daily. 
Only eight small banks in Spain, Greece and Austria failed the European Banking Authority's test, and were ordered to increase their reserves to protect against possible losses. But this may turn out to be a sideshow.
While the tests were criticized for not factoring in a Greek default, the more immediate concern could be the effect on bank balance sheets as their sovereign bond holdings -- especially in the case of widely held Italian debt -- continue to lose value in the bond market sell-off.
With those bonds now worth less, calls are growing for Europe to take urgent action to recapitalize its banks, as the United States and Britain did in 2008 when the financial crisis damaged the balance sheets of their banks. At the same time, the problems of Europe's banks also mean it will be difficult for the spendthrift faction of European nations to rely on them to borrow aggressively to finance budget deficits, largely with impunity, as they did until 2008.
The prospect that the flu will spread beyond Greece and Spain to infect Italy and perhaps even France and Belgium, is sure to be a point of urgent discussion on Thursday in Brussels at the debt summit meeting for European Union leaders.
The exposure of European banks to sovereign debt is a point that regulators have long underscored, most recently and acutely in an illuminating report issued this month by the Bank for International Settlements.
The report highlighted just how thin the capital buffers are for banks in highly indebted European nations. For example, banking systems in Belgium, Greece and Italy are sitting on local government bond holdings that range from 60 percent to 90 percent of total bank capital.
''Until recently, investors have paid little attention to diversifying their portfolios of government bonds of advanced countries, as these bonds were considered virtually riskless,'' the report warned. ''This situation has changed: some sovereign securities have already lost their risk-free status, while others may do so in the future,'' it said. Take Greece, for instance. The National Bank of Greece passed its test with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 11 percent, compared with a minimum of 5 percent required to pass. But the bank holds 18 billion euros worth of Greek bonds that are, at best, worth half that amount, and if written down accordingly would immediately wipe out the bank's capital of 8.1 billion euros.
BNP Paribas in France and Commerzbank in Germany also passed, but they own 5 billion and 3 billion euros, respectively, in Greek bonds. (As is the case with most banks, these assets are held in the banking book, not the trading book, so they do not reflect the true market value until written down.)
But it is to Italy, which, with its huge debt financing burden, is home to the world's third largest bond market after Japan and the United States, that Europe's banks remain most heavily exposed.
It was the Greek finance minister who zeroed in on this point last week. Yes, Greece's debt is high at 355 billion euros, Evangelos Venizelos said in a speech to his Parliament. But it was not as dire as Italy's, he argued, because Italy borrows about that amount in a single year to keep current on its own financial obligations, which at 120 percent of gross domestic product are second only to those of Greece itself.
Again BNP Paribas stands out in that regard, owning 28 billion euros in Italian bonds (just about half its core capital at the end of 2010). Other big holders of Italian bonds include Commerzbank with 11 billion euros and Credit Agricole in France with 10.7 billion euros.
Unicredit, the large Italy-based bank with significant operations outside its core market, remains tied to the fortunes of its home country. At 49 billion euros, its Italian government bond holdings are 140 percent of capital as of 2010, according to stress test data.
Italian government debt does not carry anywhere close to the risk of its Greek counterpart. Italy's budget deficit of 4 percent of gross domestic product puts it in a different category, and there has been no talk of Italy's not being in a position to keep paying its obligations.
But as foreign and domestic holders of Italian bonds keep selling their holdings -- bankers remark that many of the sellers are weak holders who were attracted to the higher yield but never thought that Italy would be lumped with Greece and others -- the price of the benchmark Italian bond has plummeted and the yield has spiked.
What was once seen as more or less a risk-free asset is becoming increasingly less so, as the Bank for International Settlements' report notes.
Beyond the sovereign debt question, other revelations are to be found in the individual bank disclosures.
The British banking giant Barclays, for example, has significant exposure to the troubled Spanish economy. After its home country and the United States, Spain represents the third largest credit market for Barclays. (Of this 43.9 billion euros, close to half is loans to Spain's devastated mortgage and commercial real estate sectors.)
And the British-government controlled Royal Bank of Scotland has 64 billion euros of dubious Irish loans on its books (12 billion euros of which is already in default), compared with a capital level of 58 billion euros at the end of 2010.
For now, all these banks can say that they have passed Europe's latest banking crucible. Many have also raised equity over the last year to address market concerns.
But as the crisis worsens, it may well be the case that today's capital cushion will not be enough to cover tomorrow's sovereign bond losses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Evangelos Venizelos, Greece's finance chief, says Italy has a more severe debt problem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMELA PANTZARTZI) (B1)
 Unicredit, the Italian bank with this branch in Prague and other major operations beyond its core market, is tied to Italy's fortunes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VLADIMIR WEISS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOVEREIGN RISK (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BOND MARKETS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); EURO (62%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL BANK OF GREECE SA (57%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (52%)

TICKER: NBGA (LSE) (57%); NBG (NYSE) (57%); ETE (ATH) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (96%); GREECE (94%); ITALY (94%); SPAIN (93%); BELGIUM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); AUSTRIA (72%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



622 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Making 5 for $5 More Tempting Than One for $1

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Buy a lot -- a whole lot more than you meant to -- and save!
Three 12-packs of Pepsi are selling for $12.99 at Stop & Shop grocery stores. Ten cans of tuna, or 10 bags of marshmallows, are going for $10. Six ears of corn for $2. Ten containers of Meow Mix cat food for $5.50.
Want just one each of those items? Well, yes, you get the same discount in most cases. But grocers would prefer that you think bigger. Like most retailers, they are feeling the pinch as people spend less these days. So they are playing a multiples game to entice shoppers to buy more than their shopping lists dictate. 
The old gimmick -- buy one, get one free -- has been expanded to include some pricing equations worthy of Isaac Newton, or at least of middle-school math class. Using buying patterns detected from loyalty cards, receipts and other research, grocery chains are searching for the multiples sweet spot: The current Pathmark circular advertises Bush's baked beans at three for $5 and Yoplait yogurt at 10 for $6. At Cub Foods, Sprite 12-packs are on sale at three for $11.97. Kroger has lemonade, socks and Kroger gummi bears candy on sale at 10 for $10.
''We look at the customer buying behavior, and that's how we land on multiples -- to get customers a little higher than their typical purchase rate,'' said Tom O'Boyle, executive vice president for merchandising and marketing at the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, which owns grocery stores including Pathmark, A.&P. and Food Emporium.
Even though shoppers usually do not have to buy the suggested amount to get the discount, they do anyway, said John T. Gourville, a professor of marketing at Harvard Business School who studies pricing strategies.
It is all about the power of suggestion, he said.
''Many people buy the amount, or buy in increments, that are advertised -- five for $5, they end up buying five boxes of couscous or whatever it happens to be,'' he said.
When Supervalu, the parent of Cub Foods and other grocery chains, tested 10-for-$10 deals versus five for $5 on the same items and in the same markets, it found that people usually bought two more items when the promotion was 10 for $10, said Tom Lofland, Supervalu's director for sales and promotions.
When it tried doing one for $1, Mr. Lofland said, there was a double-digit decline in sales. ''When they see a 10 for $10, they'll see that as a value, and they'll stretch,'' he said.
Grocery stores have always offered deals, of course. But grocery chain executives say that in this economy, with people visiting stores less frequently, spending less per trip and sticking to their shopping lists more closely, the competition to offer compelling deals is stronger than ever.
Most grocery shoppers make a list before going to the store, according to two recent studies, and that is behavior that has not eased up since the recession. In one recent survey, Acosta Sales and Marketing, which advises clients like Nestle on pricing, found that 84 percent of shoppers make a list, 23 percent make fewer grocery trips than a year ago, and that, over all, shoppers are spending less per trip than a year ago.
Unemployment, rising gas prices and more expensive food have ''put a tremendous amount of pressure on consumers, who have become extremely value driven, budget minded, list minded, less impulsive and very deal oriented,'' said Bill Melnick, director for strategic planning at SAI Marketing, which studies consumer behavior for brands like Dole.
''In order to get someone to buy something that wasn't on the list,'' Mr. Melnick said, ''or to get them to buy more of what's already on the list, there has to be some incentive to get them to move outside their typical behavior.''
Suppliers are also getting in the game, offering grocery chains deals on some items, like soft drinks, so that shoppers will buy more -- and therefore less of the competing brands. With a case of Coke at home, for example, shoppers might be less tempted to pick up a Pepsi at the drugstore.
''The manufacturers are keen on this,'' said Mr. O'Boyle of A.& P.. ''Coke would say, 'We'll give you a better deal if you can get a five-times multiple out there for the customer.' ''
In another twist on the buy-more strategy, some stores have been selling build-a-meal deals, said Robert E. Hill Jr., president and chief executive of Acosta, the price and marketing consulting firm. A store will arrange chicken breasts, a bagged salad, a soda and dessert together, and slap on a price like $10.
''It's encouraging shoppers to buy the full store,'' Mr. Hill said, rather than cherry-picking from various specials. ''It's really important for the retailer to grab that shopper to make the purchase while they're in the store, because they may not be back that week.''
Lori Loomis, 38, always makes a list before going shopping near her home in Boerne, Tex., first by planning meals for the week, then by checking on the weekly discounts. A good offer could sway her to put something extra in her cart, she said.
''If something is a good price and it's not on my list, I'll go ahead and stock up on it, especially if I have a coupon or it's on clearance,'' she said.
Still, when Ms. Loomis began seeing the rash of 10-for-$10 deals, she quickly sorted out the rules.
''Usually, I don't want to buy 10 if I don't have to, so I just asked,'' she said. ''They don't really make you buy as many as they say.''
And in pushing the envelope as far as possible, grocers sometimes come up with multiples that are just too far-fetched for ordinary shoppers.
''There have been things in the past we've tried, like buy 20 yogurts for $10,'' Mr. O'Boyle said. ''Unless you're someone who eats two or three yogurts a day, you're going to start to back up on that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At an Albertsons supermarket in Los Angeles, a sign advertised a 10-for-$10 deal. The Albertsons chain is owned by Supervalu. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); RETAILERS (89%); SALES PROMOTIONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); MARKET INCIDENCE (79%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); PET FOODS (76%); PRODUCT PRICING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); BEVERAGE PRICES (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); TEA (64%)

COMPANY: GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO INC (82%); CUB FOODS (69%); FOOD EMPORIUM (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (82%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



623 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Muggles by the Millions Flock to the Potter Finale, Breaking Records

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- And now we know the spell for raining cash.
Harry Potter and his wizarding friends ended their decade-long film career by selling a staggering $476 million in tickets around the world over the weekend, breaking major box office records and leaving Hollywood executives shell-shocked.
''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,'' the first film in the series to be released in premium-priced 3-D, sold $168.6 million in tickets in North America alone -- the biggest opening weekend in history, not adjusting for inflation. ''The Dark Knight'' previously held that record with $158.4 million, according to Hollywood.com, which compiles ticketing data. 
''Deathly Hallows: Part 2'' also set a new high-water mark for the biggest one-day box office haul; this well-reviewed movie took in over $92 million on Friday in North America, including $43.5 million at midnight screenings, surpassing the $72.7 million generated by ''The Twilight Saga: New Moon'' in 2009. Imax theaters also broke sales records.
Paul Dergarabedian, president of Hollywood.com's box office division, said the weekend's ''massive ticket buying frenzy'' reflected the end-of-an-era nature of the film. When it comes to the pop culture power of the Potter franchise, including the books and related merchandise, ''it is nearly impossible to overstate the enormity.''
That sweaty brow you see is that of Warner Brothers, the studio that under the leadership of its recently retired movie chief, Alan F. Horn, expertly managed the Harry Potter series over a decade, in particular maintaining a high level of quality that kept audiences enraptured and critics cooing.
But the juggernaut performance of the final Potter film is both terrific and terrifying for the studio. Although recent disappointments (''Green Lantern,''''Sucker Punch,''''Arthur'') are instantly forgotten, Warner must now figure out how to keep profits rolling without the boy wizard. The risky Potter replacement plan involves a heavier reliance on superheroes.
''I'm too old for cartwheels, but it's close,'' said Dan Fellman, Warner's president for domestic distribution, referring to his reaction to the ''ridiculously amazing'' box office results. ''At the same time it's bittersweet. It's also the end of a great franchise, and we've watched these talented kids grow up.''
In terms of Warner's future without the Potter films, Mr. Fellman pointed to high hopes for ''The Hobbit,'' a two-movie series that starts at the end of next year, and next summer's ''Dark Knight Rises.'' And it should be noted that Warner will reap rewards from the Potter franchise for decades through DVD sales and royalties from the Wizarding World of Harry Potter, a theme park attraction at Universal Orlando in Florida.
The eight films in the series, which hew closely to the storylines laid out in J. K. Rowling's seven books, have now sold about $7 billion in tickets at the worldwide box office. Depending on how the numbers are spliced and diced, the series ranks either as the No. 1 movie franchise in history or second behind James Bond.
''Deathly Hallows: Part 2,'' which analysts estimate cost about $200 million to make and $150 million to market, poses major challenges for movies set for release in its wake. Three big movies arrive in the next three weeks -- ''Captain America: The First Avenger,'' ''Cowboys & Aliens'' and ''Rise of the Planet of the Apes'' -- and may look puny in comparison.
That was certainly true of the only other new movie that opened against ''Deathly Hallows: Part 2'' over the weekend, though it was not positioned as competition. ''Winnie the Pooh,'' a $30 million hand-drawn film from Walt Disney Animation Studios, sold an estimated $8 million and finished sixth at the weekend box-office derby.
Disney hopes its G-rated ''Pooh'' movie, released in 2,405 theaters in North America (compared with 4,375 for ''Deathly Hallows: Part 2'') will perform well in coming weeks at matinees, which have a dearth of offerings for the youngest of moviegoers. But the first job of ''Winnie the Pooh'' is to boost sales of related merchandise, which have slumped in recent years.
For the weekend ''Transformers: Dark of the Moon'' (Paramount Pictures) was second with an estimated $21.3 million in ticket sales, lifting its domestic total to $303 million after three weeks. The R-rated comedy ''Horrible Bosses'' (Warner) was third in its second weekend, taking in a surprisingly strong $17.6 million for a new total of $60 million.
''Zookeeper'' (Sony Pictures Entertainment and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer) was fourth in its second weekend, selling an estimated $12.3 million for a new total of $42.4 million. ''Cars 2'' (Disney's Pixar) rounded out the top five, taking in about $8.3 million for a four-week total of $165.3 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a New York theater, opening-night showings of the new Harry Potter movie were all sold out. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 Los Angeles fans trying to get in to Harry Potter's opening night, after midnight Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUS RUELAS/REUTERS) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET AGENCIES (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



624 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: At Summer's End, 7 Shops Will Vanish From Coney Island's Boardwalk

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
An ocean breeze drifts into the cavernous boardwalk store and settles inside like a sigh.
Robert Suh, the 29-year-old owner of Coney Island Souvenirs, stands behind a small rack of vintage postcards, quietly scooping ice cream for teenagers and tourists. When a man walks off without paying full price, Mr. Suh just lets him go. A fight for 50 cents is not worth it anymore.
For the Suh family, which has run Coney Island Souvenirs for 25 years, the dog days of summer are already here. They know that at the end of the season's lease, their shop will be leaving the beach for good.
''They're taking the store away; I hate them,'' Mr. Suh's mother, So Chung Suh, 67, said in between helping customers on a recent afternoon. ''I'm sad, I'm angry.'' 
She added softly: ''This is why I come to this country.''
But as one immigrant business is preparing for its inevitable end on the boardwalk, another is planning an expansion. Haim Haddad, 61, a Libyan Jew who fled with his family in 1967, settling in Italy and then Israel before coming to the United States in the 1980s, owns the bustling Coney Island Beach Shop on Stillwell Avenue with his daughter, Maya. It is a shop pulsating with beach kitsch, stocked floor to ceiling with mermaid T-shirts and tie-dyed sweatshirts, plastic rafts and bottle openers in the form of miniature flip-flops.
Next year, the Suhs will be gone, but a few steps down, the Haddads will be opening their third store. (They are opening their second one on Friday in the Stillwell Avenue subway station.)
''It's all that we've worked for -- to be on the Boardwalk, there's nothing better than that,'' Ms. Haddad, 29, said. ''It's got so much history; it's different than anywhere in New York City.''
Steps from the clickety-clack of the aging Cyclone and within earshot of the new Sling Shot, the American Dream has met New York real estate reality.
The city, which owns 6.2 acres of Coney Island, was concentrating less on nostalgia and more on economics when it hired an Italian amusement park company to reinvigorate the flailing beach haven, which has undergone seemingly constant transformations over the past 130 years.
Last year, the company, Central Amusement International, reopened Luna Park, and this year, it added the Scream Zone, charging $7 to $20 for stomach-lurching attractions like the Sling Shot and the Steeplechase.
The company, which said it had invested over $25 million already, has been eager to upgrade the boardwalk to make it more family-oriented, said Valerio Ferrari, the president. So it has been moving away from earnest but unassuming beach bric-a-brac stores like the Suhs' shop, legendary bar hangouts like Ruby's, and food stands like Gyro Corner that sell cholesterol-laden pizza, gyros and funnel cake.
''We will never make Disney here,'' Mr. Ferrari said. ''But it will be something more ...'' -- he searched for the words -- ''refined, cleaner. A little more year-round, if it's possible, with sit-down restaurants and sports bars.''
Mr. Ferrari was blunt about why he did not renew leases for the Suhs and six other longtime businesses. ''We don't have the same vision,'' he said. ''They like the way it is, and we don't.''
All the store owners on the boardwalk submitted nine-year plans for the reinvention of their businesses. Mr. Ferrari chose to keep only Nathan's Famous hot dogs and the tiny pink boutique store, Lola Star, which sells novelty items and other Coney souvenirs.
''She can easily fit into our vision,'' Mr. Ferrari said.
Dianna Carlin, 36, the owner of Lola Star, said that just for being chosen, she received dirty looks and cold shoulders from the other shop owners. Although Lola Star gets to stay, it will have to compete with a similar shop next door -- that of the Haddads.
Ms. Haddad, a graduate of Baruch College who previously worked at Macy's and Banana Republic and is on the local Community Board 13, submitted a splashy, intricate 60-page plan for what she will call the Brooklyn Beach Shop. She intends to sell originally designed apparel as well as the requisite beach items.
Ms. Haddad has already been to Hong Kong to price special-order items like magnets, key chains and spoons. Her father previously was a jewelry designer like his own father, the creator of jewelry for the king of Libya, and ran a discount store in Coney Island for a while. When that struggled, he opened his first beach shop in 2002; it has had a booming business. With so much foot traffic from beachgoers that Mr. Haddad has had to employ beefy security guards outside on the busiest of days, the location will remain open even after the new Boardwalk store is up and running.
Mr. Ferrari said he was impressed with the Haddads' merchandise and their research on branding. ''It doesn't take a master's degree to figure it out.'' he said. ''We want a better-quality-run business on the Boardwalk.''
But he added: ''We could make a mistake, too, you know.''
The Suhs' airy shop is less vibrant and well-stocked (there is a dartboard in the back for employees when business gets slow during weekdays), and Mr. Suh said finances had been tight over the past several years because a series of one-year leases had led to perpetual uncertainty. This year, however, the situation is clear, and stark; after paying $110,000 in rent for a store that will be closing at the end of the season, Mr. Suh has had to place fewer new orders and has been reluctant to make any aesthetic changes.
Ms. Suh objects to those who say the shop sells items of cheap quality. It has its T-shirts designed and made in the United States, and people return yearly, praising the merchandise, she said.
Her husband, Thompson Suh, a former welterweight wrestler who competed for South Korea in the 1968 Olympics, opened the store in 1987 and expanded it twice. He was the handyman who lent tools to all the other stores on the boardwalk.
He died in February 2010 when he had a heart attack and crashed his car driving out of the Midtown Tunnel. He was on his way to signing a one-year lease with the city. Ms. Suh was in the passenger seat, holding her Maltese, Kobe.
''He said someday they are going to take it away,'' Ms. Suh said, looking at her husband's picture taped to the cash register while Kobe slept on a shelf behind her.
When he died, Robert, a graduate of the State University at Albany, left his real estate job and returned to the store where he and his sister began working when they were teenagers. The family does not know what it will do next, or what will happen to the leftover sunblock, umbrellas, and plastic American flags and other knickknacks, discarded like memories. Already, they are starting to give discounts.
Ms. Suh acknowledged that she was very bitter over the way the new management had treated them. ''Cold heart,'' she said. ''Ice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Samuel Vuvu Schumann, 4, in Haim Haddad's Coney Island Beach Shop, above, which will expand to the Boardwalk next year. Dianna Carlin, at left, at her boutique, Lola Star, one of two businesses whose leases were renewed. Robert Suh and his mother, So Chung Suh, with their Maltese, Kobe, in Coney Island Souvenirs, which after 25 years will shut at season's end. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); BEACHES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); IMMIGRATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MALTA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



625 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Fast Traders, In Spotlight, Battle Rules

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
For years they have operated in the shadows, often far from Wall Street, trading stocks at warp speed and reaping billions while criticism rose that they were damaging markets and hurting ordinary investors.
Now high-frequency trading firms, normally secretive, are stepping into the light to buff their image with regulators, the public and other investors.
After quietly growing to account for about 60 percent of the seven billion shares that change hands daily on United States stock markets, the firms are trying to stave off the regulators who are proposing to curb their activities.
To make their case, the firms have formed their first industry trade group, hired former Securities and Exchange Commission staff members and spent nearly $2 million in the last few years on Washington lobbying and contributions to lawmakers. Some even want to be called ''automated trading professionals'' rather than high-frequency traders. 
''Once the spotlight was placed on them they looked at each other, and said, 'Us, evil? Are you kidding?' '' said James J. Angel, a finance professor at Georgetown University. ''They are reacting in the same way as any threatened industry. They are stepping out of the shadows. They are trying to get their side of the story out.''
At stake is billions in profits for the high-frequency traders and investor confidence in the financial system.
Critics say traders with access to the fastest machines win at the expense of ordinary investors by seizing on the best deals and turning fast profits before other traders. They also say the lightning-fast trading strategies may be making financial markets less stable because the speed and volume of trades distort prices.
The traders say they have brought greater competition to the markets and have substantially cut trading fees for even the smallest investors.
''Central to our view is that our role and other firms' role in the market is very constructive and very beneficial to investors,'' said Richard Gorelick, chief executive of RGM Advisors, a high-frequency trading firm based in Austin, Tex., and one of the companies assuming a higher public profile.
Many firms remain hesitant to speak on the record. But one of the conditions for membership in the new industry group, called the Principal Traders Group, is that firms identify themselves publicly on its Web site.
The group comprises 31 firms. According to data calculated in June, its biggest members spent $690,000 on lobbying last year, more than double what they spent in 2009. They gave more than $547,000 to lawmakers' political campaigns in 2010, on top of the $456,000 they handed out in the last political cycle in 2008.
High-frequency techniques are used by Wall Street banks and hedge funds, but it is the new independent firms that account for the bulk of this new kind of activity. Most of them were founded in the last 10 to 12 years. Many are still relatively small, employing a dozen to a hundred people, though some have as many as 250.
Trading mostly with their owners' money, they scoop up hundreds or thousands of shares in one transaction, only to offload them less than a second later before buying more. They can move millions of shares around in minutes, earning a tenth of a penny off each share.
As a group, they earned $12.9 billion in profit in the last two years, according to the Tabb Group, a specialist on the markets. Tabb expects their earnings to slow this year as Wall Street's big brokerage firms fight back with their own faster computerized trading.
The S.E.C. started to think these firms needed tighter controls in early 2009 when analysts for the first time began to point to the sector's billions in profit, and critics wondered whether their technological firepower gave them an unfair advantage.
The scrutiny intensified after the May 6, 2010, flash crash, one of the most abrupt market moves in recent history, when stocks plunged some 700 points in minutes before recovering.
Regulators did not blame high-frequency traders for causing the sell-off. But some firms may have exacerbated the decline by switching off their machines and withdrawing from the market. As the number of buyers dropped drastically, so too did the stock prices.
''High-frequency traders turned what was a very down day for many investors into a very profitable one for themselves,'' said Mary Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman, in a speech on the anniversary of the flash crash in May. ''Their activity that day should cause us to thoroughly examine their current role.''
The S.E.C. has already put in place new stock circuit breakers to stop another flash crash. It has also proposed a rule forcing traders to report large trades.
The S.E.C. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission are seeking public comments on other proposals to curb high-frequency trading. Final rules may not be introduced until 2012 or later.
Many restrictions are being considered, including limits on the number of orders firms can make each second, and a minimum time for orders to stand. Regulators also want to tighten rules on algorithms used to make trades.
Bart Chilton, commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, calls the high frequency traders ''cheetahs'' who are always first to the kill in the markets and may be gaming the system.
''If markets are going to be efficient and effective and less volatile, we need to cage the cheetahs,'' he said in an e-mail. ''Prices for everything from milk to mortgages are set in these markets. Markets need to operate without the influence of traders merely trying to prey upon infinitesimal market movements.''
The firms say many of the new proposals are not needed. They portray their business as being in the vanguard of stock-exchange modernization that has brought a greater variety of investors and competition to markets.
For decades, the exchanges were dominated by a privileged, and slow, group of insiders who charged hefty fees. Electronic trading firms now trade on several competing exchanges and execute orders immediately to capture the best price available and drive down commissions, they say. The spread -- the difference between buying and selling prices -- typically used to be 25 cents or higher per share, but is now down to pennies.
''Our presence reflects the democratization of the market; it is now a level playing field,'' said Cameron Smith, counsel for Quantlab, another of the high-frequency firms taking a higher profile. He added: ''You don't want to turn the clock back.''
As the firms fight back, some have hired former S.E.C. staff members to make their arguments to regulators, and have sought prominent public relations firms to put their case to the media. Mr. Smith worked for a while as senior counsel in the S.E.C.'s division of market regulation.
Getco, one of the biggest electronic trading firms, hired John McCarthy, a former associate director in the S.E.C.'s office of compliance inspections and examinations, in 2006. Then last year it hired to its legal team Elizabeth K. King, a former associate director of the commission's division of market regulation.
Arthur Levitt, a former S.E.C. chairman, and Richard R. Lindsey, a former S.E.C. director of market regulation and chief economist, have been advisers to Getco.
Getco officials say they support ''reasoned market reform'' and favor changes like obliging traders to stay in markets even when prices grow volatile. The company declined to make its executives available for interviews.
Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, a senior member of the Senate finance committee, has raised concerns about former S.E.C. officials joining firms like Getco.
''It seems like the revolving door from the S.E.C. is constantly spinning,'' he said in an interview. ''I am worried. It raises a lot of questions about whether they are doing the work when they are at the S.E.C.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Gorelick, of RGM Advisors, a high-frequency trading firm seeking to improve its image. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WYATT McSPADDEN) (A3) CHARTS: High-Frequency Lobbying: High-frequency trading firms, which account for more than 60 percent of all stock trading and 30 to 40 percent of the futures market, are positioning themselves for greater influence through political contributions and through spending on lobbying. (Source: Center for Responsive Politics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); POLITICS (60%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



626 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Not Befitting a Democracy: A worrying new law in Israel chips away at free speech and political rights

 BODY:
Israel's reputation as a vibrant democracy has been seriously tarnished by a new law intended to stifle outspoken critics of its occupation of the West Bank.
The law, approved in a 47-to-38 vote by Parliament, effectively bans any public call for a boycott -- economic, cultural or academic -- against Israel or its West Bank settlements, making such action a punishable offense. 
It would enable Israeli citizens to bring civil suits against people and organizations instigating such boycotts, and subject violators to monetary penalties. Companies and organizations supporting a boycott could be barred from bidding on government contracts. Nonprofit groups could lose tax benefits.
The law has rightly drawn fierce criticism in Israel. The newspaper Haaretz called it ''politically opportunistic and antidemocratic,'' and warned that it and other recently enacted laws were ''transforming Israel's legal code into a disturbingly dictatorial document.'' In the United States, the Anti-Defamation League -- which strongly supports Israel and opposes boycotts against it -- warned that the law impinged on the ''basic democratic rights of Israelis to freedom of speech and freedom of expression.''
We are also opposed to boycotts of Israel, but agree this is a fundamental issue of free speech.
Israel's conservative government is determined to crush a growing push by Palestinians and their supporters for boycotts, disinvestment and sanctions against Israel. Since last year, many Israeli artists and intellectuals, as well international artists, have canceled performances and programs in Israel and the West Bank to protest the settlements. The bill's sponsor, Zeev Elkin, said his concern was that the calls for a boycott ''increasingly have come from within our own midst.''
With peace talks stalemated, Palestinians are searching for ways to keep alive their dream of a two-state solution, including a push for United Nations recognition this fall. Israel risks further isolating itself internationally with this attempt to stifle critics.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu should have exercised leadership and urged lawmakers against doing their country serious harm. While Mr. Netanyahu was absent for the vote, he eagerly insisted that it would never have passed ''if I had not authorized it.''
Advocates said the law was needed to prevent efforts to ''delegitimize'' Israel, but no country can be delegitimized if it holds true to its democratic principles. Opponents are already challenging the law in court. We hope they succeed, for Israel's sake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); DIVESTITURES (70%); PEACE PROCESS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (56%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



627 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Teacher Bonus Program Is Abandoned by the City

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
A New York City program that distributed $56 million in performance bonuses to teachers and other school staff members over the last three years will be permanently discontinued, the city Department of Education said on Sunday.
The decision was made in light of a study that found the bonuses had no positive effect on either student performance or teachers' attitudes toward their jobs.
The department had already suspended the bonus program in January amid tightening budgets and concerns about its effectiveness. 
The study, commissioned by the city, is to be published Monday by the RAND Corporation, the public policy research institution. It compared the performance of the approximately 200 city schools that participated in the bonus program with that of a control group of schools.
Weighing surveys, interviews and statistics, the study found that the bonus program had no effect on students' test scores, on grades on the city's controversial A to F school report cards, or on the way teachers did their jobs.
''We did not find improvements in student achievement at any of the grade levels,'' said Julie A. Marsh, the report's lead researcher and a visiting professor at the University of Southern California. ''A lot of the principals and teachers saw the bonuses as a recognition and reward, as icing on the cake. But it's not necessarily something that motivated them to change.''
The results add to a growing body of evidence nationally that so-called pay-for-performance bonuses for teachers that consist only of financial incentives have no effect on student achievement, the researchers wrote. Even so, federal education policy champions the concept, and spending on performance-based pay for teachers grew to $439 million nationally last year from $99 million in 2006, the study said.
In New York, the bonus program operated on a schoolwide basis, not an individual-teacher level, as a result of an agreement between the Education Department and the teachers' union, the United Federation of Teachers.
Schools qualified for bonuses if they exceeded statistical targets based on their performance on the school report cards. Each school that won created a committee of teachers and administrators to determine how to distribute the money.
The study found that most schools decided to distribute the bonuses equally to all staff members, amounting to about $3,000 per teacher. But even at schools where the committee rewarded some teachers more than others, no effect on student performance was discerned.
The researchers hypothesized that one reason for the failure of the program might have been that all city schools are already under heavy pressure to raise student test scores, or else face sanctions, including closing. In that environment, a small bonus -- which could total $1,500 per teacher after taxes -- might not have been significant.
Teachers also reported that improving as teachers and seeing their students learn were bigger motivators than a bonus, Dr. Marsh said.
Then, too, some staff members viewed the program as unfair because it relied too heavily on test scores, and others said they did not understand how the awards were determined.
Roughly one-third of the money for the bonuses came from private donations, and the rest from taxpayer funds. In the 2008-9 school year, more than 80 percent of participating schools won bonuses, costing the city $31 million. In 2009-10, less than 15 percent of participating schools won, costing $4 million, after the state made its elementary and middle school tests harder to pass.
City officials did not dispute the study results, but they said they did not believe the money was wasted, and indicated that they would continue to seek a merit pay model that worked.
''In January, we suspended this program out of concern about its effectiveness,'' said Barbara Morgan, a spokeswoman for the Education Department.
''This study confirms that was the right decision, and provides us with important information as we continue to think about compensation models that differentiate among the performance of our teachers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MERIT PAY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (56%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



628 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Afghans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Struggling for Power in Afghanistan'' (Op-Ed, July 6): 
We object to Glenn Zorpette's portrayal of the United States government's endeavors in the energy sector in Afghanistan.
His conclusion that the United States Agency for International Development is not capable of carrying out power projects in Afghanistan is based on faulty assumptions and ignores the evidence.
U.S.A.I.D. and the Army Corps of Engineers are working closely together in Afghanistan to build sustainable, durable infrastructure. Our achievements, while complementary, have had different timelines and objectives.
U.S.A.I.D.'s goal is to ensure that Afghans have the capacity -- and the budget -- to maintain these investments. Our effort to create a national utility has already borne substantial dividends: collections and revenues have doubled in just two years, and fuel subsidies have been cut by $150 million.
Our efforts have resulted in 24-hour, reliable electricity to Kabul; diversification of power sources, including renewables, for increased energy security; and more electricity in the restive south than in the previous 30 years as a result of our rehabilitation of the Kajaki hydroelectric dam.
Working with Afghan partners from start to finish can be slower, but in the end is far more cost-effective and sustainable. It is the only way we will successfully transition responsibility to the Afghans themselves.
ALEX THIER Assistant to the Administrator for Afghanistan and Pakistan Affairs U.S.A.I.D. Washington, July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ENGINEERING (70%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (57%); ARMIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



629 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Commission to Set Raises for Judges in New York State Is Flooded With Suggestions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

 BODY:
What is the price of administering justice?
That may sound like an existential question. But for a state panel beginning its task of setting salaries for New York's judges, the issue is less of soaring philosophical debate than of convoluted calculations.
Would $220,836 be the proper salary for a judge who now earns $136,700, as one argument filed with the commission suggested? What about $195,754? 
The seven members of the commission indicated last week in their first meeting that they thought their summer math-immersion course would put an end to one of the longest-running arguments in Albany, where state judges, numbering more than 1,200, have been lodging complaints about their pay for years.
The panel, the Judicial Compensation Commission, was created last year after the Legislature had failed for 12 years to agree on a raise for judges. Its decision, due in August, is to have the force of law unless overturned by the Legislature and the governor.
William C. Thompson Jr., the panel's chairman and a former New York City comptroller, told the commissioners that they should assume that their conclusion ''on the level of compensation for judges is going to be the level of compensation.''
The commission will hold its first -- and probably only -- public hearing on Wednesday in Albany. As a result, its members, appointed by the governor, legislative leaders and the state's chief judge, are being inundated with formulas and charts.
The suggestions include every manner of numerical calculation, with most using as a point of reference the current $136,700 salary of State Supreme Court justices, who handle a wide range of cases, including murder cases and malpractice trials, and whose pay would have risen 41 percent if they had received raises to keep pace with inflation, according to one filing.
Each interest group had its own math. The New York City Bar Association argued that given how expensive it is to live in New York City, Supreme Court justices would have to earn $212,000 to be paid in line with the salaries of other big-city judges across the country.
The New York County Lawyers' Association did another calculation: a $60,000 raise ''would increase the state budget by less than 55 one-thousandths of one percent.''
Not to be outdone, a coalition of 12 judges' organizations put forth 50 facts justifying a big raise, including salaries in New York City's Sanitation Department: 50 employees in the department earn more than almost all New York judges and nearly as much as the state's chief judge, Jonathan Lippman.
Judge Lippman makes $156,000; an intermediate appeals judge makes $144,000; a criminal court judge makes $125,600. The commissioners said they would keep in place the comparative differences for the various levels of the courts.
One commission member, Mark S. Mulholland, a Long Island lawyer, said in an interview that there were numbers of formulas that people were using to make their cases.
But he insisted he was not overwhelmed by numbers as lawyers sometimes are. ''I actually did well in math,'' he said.
Officials at the state's Office of Court Administration presented the commissioners with their own ways of looking at the numbers, including a comparison of New York's judicial salaries with the salaries of judges in other states. New York came in dead last.
The court administrators suggested setting the salary for a State Supreme Court justice between $192,000 and $220,000, a range seemingly intended to give the commission ample leeway to grant a big raise. If, for example, the commission chose a salary less than $192,000, it could appear fiscally responsible even as it doled out raises of 30 percent or so.
For much of the past dozen years, the discussion of judicial salaries has not drawn much passion. But with the commission tackling the issue at a time of state budget problems, the idea of increasing any state salaries is not popular.
State Senator John J. Bonacic, a Republican who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said in an interview that a raise to $220,000 for judges ''may not be consistent with the tough environment that's going on right now.'' He said that in some areas of the state ''if a vacancy occurred, you would have lawyers lining up for Supreme Court at the current salary.''
In the media and on the Internet, the prospect of a big judicial raise is beginning to draw fiery comments. Judges deserve a raise, ''but 62 percent in one shot?'' The New York Post asked in an editorial last week after the court administration officials had filed their submission. ''No way,'' the paper commented.
David Bookstaver, the spokesman for the court system, said the proposal offered the commission a range of salary possibilities based on factors set forth in the law. As for the criticism, Mr. Bookstaver called it ''a mischaracterization of our submission.''
During the panel's meeting last week, three of the seven commissioners appeared ready to grant judges a large raise quickly, two did not suggest views and two said the size of any raise had to be limited by the state's fiscal troubles. ''How much can the state afford?'' asked Bill Mulrow, who was appointed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.
In the filings, the formulas and calculations are stitched together with arguments. So far, the most ardent -- and the wordiest-- is the one by the judicial associations, which runs 247 pages. ''When someone finds out that you are a judge,'' it said, ''and you have not had a raise in over 12 years, most people say, 'That's crazy.' ''

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Sampling of New York Salaries: Judges below receive $10,000 a year for job-related expenses, in addition to their salaries. (Sources: New York State Office of Court Administration, Administrative Office of the United States Courts, American Association of University Professors, New York State Education Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MURDER (63%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (63%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); BUDGETS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (59%); ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (59%); UNITED NATIONS COMPENSATION COMMISSION (56%)

PERSON: JONATHAN J JUDGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



630 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: States' Money Woes Show No Favorites

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
SALT LAKE CITY --Arizona began cutting more than 100,000 people from its Medicaid rolls this month. Illinois, even after raising taxes, began the month with $3.8 billion worth of unpaid bills left over from last year. Connecticut sent layoff warnings last week to state troopers.
The governors who gathered here over the weekend for the summer meeting of the National Governors Association have all been scathed by the unpopular things they have had to do to keep their budgets in balance. For the veterans, it was just the latest in a series of tough years. For the rookies -- 29 new governors took office this year -- it was their first taste of state budget battle. 
''It's funny, here I am, I'm six months into it and I don't think of myself as a new governor anymore,'' said Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, a Democrat who took office this year and closed a gaping deficit with a blend of tax increases, service cuts and union concessions.
Since the unions have failed to ratify the agreement he made with their leaders, he now faces the prospect of having to lay off more than 5,000 state workers. ''It's been that kind of six months,'' he said.
Now, more than a dozen governors of both parties said in interviews here, states are going to have to adjust to what some are calling the ''new normal'': the strong likelihood that they will be asked to make do with less federal aid. It is not just the end of the stimulus money, which has helped keep many states afloat but is now mostly gone. Governors are closely watching from their statehouses as the debate in Washington increasingly centers on what further cuts to make.
''It's like falling off a cliff,'' said Gov. Christine Gregoire of Washington, a Democrat. ''And we're going to be at the bottom of that cliff for a long time in our relationship with the federal government. And whatever they're going to decide in the way of cuts, I hope they understand the implications to the states and what it's going to mean on the ground out here.''
Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, a Republican, said, ''I think we've got to recognize that the federal government is never going to be able to deliver what they promised.''
The uncertainty over federal cuts -- both Democrats and Republicans in Washington have called for cutting $100 billion from Medicaid over the next decade -- is clouding the outlook for states even as their tax collections are slowly climbing back toward their pre-recession levels.
There was a partisan divide here over how to react to the expected new austerity. Democrats, for the most part, called for the federal government to balance cuts with taxes, so services could be preserved. Republicans, on the other hand, opposed higher taxes, and said that they would be able to manage with less federal money as long as the federal government also gave them the flexibility to spend less money on required programs.
Some Republicans -- including Gov. Gary R. Herbert of Utah, who surprised his guest governors when a stunt double posing as him did a ski jump -- say they support amending the Constitution to require the federal government to balance its budget. That would almost certainly result in a steep decline in aid to states.
But Mr. Herbert said that he still worried about the potential impact of some federal cuts.
''In order to get our fiscal house in order, the federal government is going to have to do what they need to do,'' he said. ''And if they're going to have us administer federal programs, it helps if they don't balance their budget on our backs. That would not be fair, either. But everyone needs to tighten their belts.''
Many governors rattled off the cuts they had reluctantly made, or the taxes they had reluctantly raised, to keep their states going after a downturn that included the deepest and longest declines in state tax collections on record. Ms. Gregoire lamented that she had put a big hole into her safety net by ending a program that sent checks to unemployable adults. ''These are folks who, without anything, will probably go homeless on the streets,'' she said.
Cutting access to Medicaid was a tough decision, said Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican. The state had expanded access in flusher times, but now, after selling off state office buildings, winning passage of a temporary sales tax increase to help finance education and making cuts elsewhere, she said that there were few options open to her.
''That was, of course, very, very difficult, but we had no other choice but to address that issue,'' Ms. Brewer said of the Medicaid cuts, which are being challenged in court. ''We were kind of caught in a situation where, although people felt it was a good thing that we were able to do that, we weren't financially able to continue that. So we had to go in and remove it.''
For Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, a Democrat, one of the hardest cuts he made was closing a mental health center on the state's Eastern Shore that he said had helped many vulnerable people.
''Not easy,'' he said. ''I still remember one of the letters I was given by a guy who went through that center. It said we all face a fundamental choice in life. We can either be bitter about what we've lost, or focused on what we have.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (57%); TERRY BRANSTAD (56%); CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



631 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: The Value of Medicaid: A study of Oregon's program clearly demonstrates the health and financial benefits

 BODY:
Medicaid is under assault these days from nearly every direction. Governors complain that they cannot afford to put up their share of the money. Congressional Republicans led by Paul Ryan want to reduce the federal contribution by $771 billion over the next decade and shift more costs to the states and low-income Americans. President Obama has expressed willingness to cut Washington's contribution by $100 billion over that period to help reduce the deficit. 
Meanwhile, conservative critics of Medicaid -- and of health care reform's requirement to expand it -- have made the outlandish claim that it provides such poor care that enrollees would be better off having no coverage.
They cite a few studies that seemed to show that, in some cases, patients on Medicaid had worse outcomes than those without any insurance. They claim this is because Medicaid pays so poorly that many doctors refuse to treat the patients, who are then unable to get care or go to the least-skilled doctors.
Those claims have now been refuted by a new study of Oregon's program, conducted under the leadership of Katherine Baicker, a Harvard health economics professor who was an adviser to President George W. Bush, and Amy Finkelstein, an economics professor at M.I.T. It found that Medicaid patients reported both better health and more financial stability than uninsured poor people.
The research was made possible by unusual circumstances in Oregon, where officials had only enough money to expand Medicaid enrollments by about 10,000 people in 2008. They used a lottery to decide who got coverage among the almost 90,000 people who applied. That made it possible to conduct a ''gold standard'' clinical trial in which two randomly selected groups with the same demographic characteristics could be compared -- those who won the lottery and those who did not. None of the studies cited by the critics had randomly selected control groups.
The Oregon study provides striking results for its first year. The group that gained Medicaid coverage was significantly more likely to have received care from a hospital or a doctor, or to use prescription drugs, belying the notion that enrollees could not find providers. The insured group was far more likely to get preventive care, like mammograms, and to have a regular doctor.
Those people were also more likely to report being in better physical and mental health. And they were better off financially: less likely to pay out of pocket, have unpaid medical bills sent to collection agencies, or need to borrow money or ignore other bills to pay for medical care.
The critics rightly point out that just because the Medicaid enrollees reported that their health was better does not mean that it actually was better. In the second year, researchers are measuring actual blood pressure, cholesterol levels, blood sugar and other physical data.
The study estimated that the additional care the new enrollees got drove up spending (from all sources) on the average individual by about $775, roughly 25 percent, above the $3,200 average for the uninsured control group.
Any politicians eager to find savings by denying poor people access to Medicaid should recognize that they will be harming the health and financial well-being of highly vulnerable Americans. Expanding Medicaid will increase spending in the short run. But the nation will benefit from a healthier, more productive population that, in the long run, may have less need for costly medical services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (79%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); LOTTERIES (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); CHOLESTEROL (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



632 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
Burger King Corporation, Miami, owned by 3G Capital, named Starcom, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Groupe, to handle its United States media buying and planning assignments. Burger King spends about $300 million a year on American advertising. The media buying assignment had been handled by Mindshare, part of the GroupM unit of WPP. The media planning assignment had most recently been handled by Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, which had also handled the Burger King creative account in the United States. When Burger King placed the creative account in review, Crispin Porter resigned both accounts. (The creative assignment was subsequently awarded to McGarryBowen, part of Dentsu.) A Starcom division, Tapestry, will continue as the multicultural media agency of record for Burger King in this country.
Advertising Research Foundation, New York, named ML Rogers, New York, as its first agency of record for tasks like advertising, branding and social media. Spending has not been determined. 
Chobani, South Edmeston, N.Y., part of Agro Farma, named Big Spaceship, Brooklyn, as agency of record for the Chobani Champions line of yogurt aimed at children. Spending for the new assignment has not been determined. Gotham, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, continues to create campaigns for the Chobani brand.
Graco Children's Products, Exton, Pa., selected BFG Communications, Hilton Head, S.C., for a new assignment, to develop a campaign to inform parents about new guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics about the use of booster seats. Spending was not disclosed.
People
Troy Ruhanen, deputy chairman at BBDO North America, New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, was promoted to a new post, chairman and chief executive for the Americas. Also, Chris Thomas, chairman and chief executive at BBDO Asia, will expand his responsibilities to include the Middle East and Africa; those two regions had not had a dedicated senior executive since 2009.
Dino de Leon was named executive creative director of the Dallas office of TracyLocke, part of the Omnicom Group, succeeding Regan Holley, who left, the agency said, to pursue other opportunities. Mr. de Leon had been executive vice president and creative director at Catapult Marketing, Westport., Conn. TracyLocke has another senior creative executive, Mike Lovegrove, who is chief creative officer for the agency's Eastern offices.
Alison Lewis, senior vice president and general manager at the Odwalla unit of the Coca-Cola Company, was named senior vice president for Coca-Cola North America marketing, effective on Aug. 1. She will succeed Beatriz Perez, who recently became chief sustainability officer at Coca-Cola.
Tarah Feinberg was named head of the new Live Media Studio at iCrossing, New York, part of the Hearst Corporation. He had been a creative director at Real Branding, now Anthem Worldwide, and also worked at the NBC Universal digital studio and Big Fuel Communications.
Miscellany
Advertising pages in magazines in the second quarter rose 0.3 percent compared with the same period last year, according to the Publishers Information Bureau, New York. That represented a slowing of growth from the first quarter, when ad pages increased 2.5 percent compared with the first quarter of 2010. For the first half of 2011, ad pages rose 1.3 percent compared with the same period of 2010.
LBi Health, New York, was opened by LBi and will be led by Gregg Fisher, as managing director; he had been client partner at LBi. Other executives at LBi Health include Mike Hartman, group creative director, and Tom Iannucci, group technical director.
Luckie & Company, Birmingham, Ala., acquired Integrative Logic, Atlanta, a data analytics marketing agency. Financial terms were not disclosed. Integrative Logic will operate as a division of Luckie and its 10 employees will all stay on, Luckie said. The deal returns Luckie to Atlanta, where it had a major presence as part of Tucker Wayne/Luckie & Company until early 1996, when a merger that created Tucker Wayne/Luckie in 1988 was reversed.
Publicis Groupe, Paris, bought a 70 percent stake in DPZ, Sao Paulo, Brazil, which has offices in three other Brazilian cities. Although financial terms were not disclosed, Publicis said it had an option to take control of DPZ in two to three years. DPZ will operate as a stand-alone unit of Publicis under its current management. The deal is the third recent acquisition in Brazil for Publicis, which also recently raised its ownership stake in another Brazilian agency, the Talent Group.
Local Yokel Media, New York, which operates a hyperlocal online advertising marketplace, was opened by Dick O'Hare, chief executive, who has worked at digital companies like DoubleClick and Yahoo. Investors in Local Yokel Media include Dave Morgan, chief executive at Simulmedia.
The Advertising Club of New York will expand by starting its first chapter, on Long Island. The decision came after the Long Island Advertising Club, which had operated more than 50 years, became inactive about 18 months ago. Also, Beth-Ann Eason, senior vice president and general manager of epicurious.com, Gourmet Live and brides.com at Conde Nast Publications, was named the chairwoman of the Advertising Club of New York, assuming duties from C. Thom Gruhler, president of McCann Erickson Worldwide, who had been the chairman of the club; he becomes chairman emeritus.
The Empire State Development Corporation, which oversees the ''I NY'' advertising campaign, is introducing ads that carry the theme ''Save the date,'' intended to help establish New York State as a leading destination location for same-sex weddings. Such weddings become legal in the state on July 24. There will be information on iloveny.com and the heart in the ''I NY'' logo will get rainbow stripes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BRANDING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); YOUTH MARKET (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (74%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (72%); CHILDREN (71%); SPACECRAFT (67%)

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); COCA-COLA CO (80%); DENTSU INC (74%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (72%); GRACO CHILDREN'S PRODUCTS INC (67%); HEARST CORP (60%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (54%); COCA-COLA NORTH LATIN AMERICA (51%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVERTISING RESEARCH FOUNDATION (56%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (54%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (93%); PUB (PAR) (93%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); KO (NYSE) (80%); 4324 (TSE) (74%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (80%); SIC2514 METAL HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (67%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



633 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
SYRIAN FORCES MASS BY SITE
WHERE SOLDIERS DEFECTED
Security forces massed near a key town in eastern Syria where dozens of soldiers have defected to join the four-month-old uprising against the government of President Bashar al-Assad. At least 1,000 troops descended on Albokamal, near the Iraq border, in what appeared to some residents to be preparations for a major military operation. Page A4
ISRAEL LEADS IN FERTILITY PUSH 
Unlike countries where couples can go broke trying to conceive with the assistance of costly medical technology, Israel provides free, unlimited in vitro fertilization procedures for up to two ''take-home babies'' until a woman is 45. The policy has made Israelis the highest per capita users of the procedure in the world. PAGE A5
YEMEN'S SHADOW LEADERS
Leaders of the antigovernment protests in Yemen announced a planned shadow government, representing their strongest effort yet to bring some structure and organization to the disparate groups of mostly youthful demonstrators who have rocked the country for five months. But the move also reflected their fundamental fragmentation and disorganization. PAGE A6
GREECE PRAISED FOR AUSTERITY
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton emphasized Washington's ''strong support'' for Greece's commitment to right its debt-ridden economy through tough austerity measures, and she thanked the government for its contributions to NATO-led operations in Libya and diplomatic efforts in the Middle East. She added that Greece could rely on the United States' unequivocal support in its efforts to emerge from the debt crisis that has shaken the euro zone. PAGE A5
National
CRACKING A SYSTEM
OF RAMPANT CHEATING
There had long been suspicions that cheating on state tests was widespread in the Atlanta public schools, but it was not until Gov. Sonny Perdue launched an investigation that the full extent was uncovered. A total of 178 principals and teachers had fraudulently raised test scores so their schools would meet targets set by the district. Michael Winerip, On Education. PAGE A9
POPULATION SHIFTS, UNEASILY
The black population in Washington, D.C., slipped below 50 percent this year, about 51 years after it gained a majority. The shift is passing without much debate, but it is leaving ripples of resentment in neighborhoods across the city . PAGE A9
CASEY ANTHONY OUT OF JAIL
The Orange County Jail in Florida increased security as Casey Anthony was released after spending nearly three years behind bars, most of them alone to ensure her safety. She was escorted out by her chief lawyer, and reports of sightings began almost immediately. PAGE A12
FREEWAY PROJECT ENDS EARLY
The 10-mile shutdown of Interstate 405, which put Los Angeles on full gridlock alert, ended nearly 18 hours ahead of schedule as construction crews demolishing part of the Mulholland Bridge finished their work much more quickly than expected. PAGE A12
Obituaries
CORNELL MACNEIL, 88
A pure baritone with power from low to high notes, he was considered one of the great American Verdi baritones of the second half of the 20th century. Page A17
New York
MARIJUANA FOR PATIENTS,
LEGAL BUT STILL OUT OF REACH
In the last few months, officials in New Jersey, as well as several other states, have said that mixed signals from the Obama administration have left them unsure whether their medical marijuana programs could draw federal prosecution of the people involved, including state employees. PAGE A13
PANEL TO SET JUDGES' RAISES
A New York commission formed to give the first judicial raises in 12 years may put an end to one of the longest-running arguments in Albany, where state judges, numbering more than 1,200, have been lodging complaints about their pay for years. The panel is due to issue a ruling in August. PAGE A13
Business
AT SONY, A REMAKE
OF THE OLD STUDIO SYSTEM
Sony's film operation has emerged as perhaps the closest contemporary approximation of a classic studio. Its movies change, but those who make them remain remarkably consistent, thanks to personal relationships and shared tastes that have largely supplanted rigid contractual arrangements. PAGE B1
Sports
ANOTHER WIN IS TOO HARD
FOR THE DEPLETED METS
One day after bullying an All-Star pitcher on the league's best team, the Mets painted a slightly more accurate portrait of how a third-place team missing its four best hitters should look. They lost their chance to win their first series against Philadelphia in four tries this season. PAGE D3
Arts
BOYISH PAUL MCCARTNEY
BOUNCES ACROSS DECADES
At 69, Paul McCartney proved in a two-and-a-half hour show at Yankee Stadium that he is not saying goodbye, but rather an enduring hello. Music Review, Jon Pareles. PAGE C1
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A17
Ross Douthat PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); SCHOOL CHEATING (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (76%); CHILDREN (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EURO ZONE (71%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (71%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ACADEMIC TESTING (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (62%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); LAWYERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); SONNY PERDUE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (92%); IRAQ (92%); YEMEN (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



634 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Blankfein's Tenure at Goldman Sachs

BYLINE: By ROB COX

 BODY:
As Goldman Sachs remains the subject of legal inquiry, guessing the longevity of Lloyd C. Blankfein's tenure as its chief executive has become the summer's Wall Street parlor game. Even Warren E. Buffett opined on the subject this month (naturally he wants him to stay).
Barring any new, unsavory disclosures, it's hard to see why Goldman's board shouldn't back Mr. Blankfein for his handling of precrisis business practices. The greater worry is Goldman's financial performance. Either way, Goldman should use this period of soul-searching to seize on a chance to improve its governance. 
Talk of Mr. Blankfein's security atop Goldman, which he has now led for five years, stems largely from questions of whether the firm acted improperly ahead of the 2008 financial crisis by, among other things, short-changing clients; and whether Mr. Blankfein misled Congress about the firm's bets against the housing market.
On balance, these questions look like misdemeanors no worse than those committed by other banks. JPMorgan recently settled similar charges. As for Mr. Blankfein's Congressional testimony, his remarks on Goldman's bets against the housing market surely ring today as economical. But to make a case for perjury requires a far higher standard of proof -- one that the facts at present don't seem to support.
Of course, the Justice Department and New York's attorney general are continuing to scour legal documents, e-mails and trading records. They could still find something fresh that implicates the firm. For that reason alone, the board needs to keep Mr. Blankfein in place. As a former top partner of the firm says, Mr. Blankfein's resignation could be the ''collateral for a trade'' that authorities eventually seek as a settlement -- or, in extremis, to head off an indictment.
In light of this, the board should also have a succession plan in place. And there are some alternatives to Mr. Blankfein floating around, like the Asia-based vice chairman Michael Evans or the investment banking head David M. Solomon.
But barring any further bad legal news, Mr. Blankfein looks safe, no? Only to a point. What matters most to Goldman's board and shareholders is financial performance -- a glimpse of which will come when the firm reports second-quarter earnings on Tuesday.
On this front, the news is mixed for Mr. Blankfein. The stock has shed nearly a quarter of its value this year, on a par with Morgan Stanley but worse than declines in Citigroup and JPMorgan. Indeed, the stock is now hovering at around book value -- outside of the financial crisis that's a rarity for Goldman, though it's still a premium to most of its peers.
True, under Mr. Blankfein, the value of Goldman's assets minus liabilities per share has more than doubled. And the firm is still the leading adviser to global companies on mergers. This is viewed as a critical symbol of the bank's focus on clients.
Yet even if Mr. Blankfein can pull Goldman out of its market slump and avoid further legal issues, the board should strengthen the way the firm is run by separating the positions of chairman and chief executive, something many of its rivals have already done.
Moreover, there's a catalyst in the near future for doing so. By next year the firm needs to name a new presiding director to replace John H. Bryan, the former Sara Lee chief who turns 75 this year and is chairman of Goldman's corporate governance and nominating committees. Though Goldman's top brass may argue Mr. Bryan has played a role akin to an independent chairman, he's been invisible to regulators, politicians and most of the firm's rank and file.
The last two years of stinging public opprobrium, regulatory woes and Congressional scrutiny should have highlighted a glaring weakness in the Goldman model to its board.
A seasoned chairman, distinct from the chief executive, would provide cover in navigating the shifting regulatory and political tides. And the more independent the chairman is, the more likely he would be to judge when Goldman's practices veered too closely to serving its short-term interests and away from assisting clients. That would be a great help to Mr. Blankfein -- or any of his possible successors.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs testified before a Senate panel last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); TESTIMONY (68%); MISDEMEANORS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (93%); WARREN BUFFETT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



635 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Politicians Can't Agree on Debt? Well, Neither Can Economists

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The politicians grappling over how to pay the nation's debts have been contributing to the heat of summer with back-and-forth charges that their opponents are disregarding the laws of economics.
Such laws, unfortunately, do not exist. Economists agree that federal borrowing must be reduced, but they do not agree about the proper mix of tax increases and spending cuts. Basic considerations, like the impact of higher taxes on saving and investment, remain the subjects of wide-ranging disagreements despite decades of intensive research.
The absence of a clear mainstream is one underappreciated reason for the standoff between the Obama administration and Congressional Republicans over raising the federal debt limit before Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department says it will run out of borrowing authority.
Washington no longer suffers from a dearth of ''one-handed'' economists, as Harry S. Truman famously lamented. The problem now is that experts are lined up behind every political position, in part because the decisions are not purely economic. The value of defense or education or justice extends beyond dollars and cents. 
''I just don't think economists have any comparative advantage'' in answering these questions, said Joel Slemrod, a University of Michigan professor and a leading expert on taxation. ''There are a lot of reasons why sensible people might disagree about the answers to the fiscal questions that we face. It's a value judgment that the citizens of the country have to make.''
President Obama and Congressional leaders did not meet over the weekend as Mr. Obama had said they might. Instead, with talks on a long-term debt-reduction deal at an impasse, action this week shifts to Congress, where Republican leaders intend to press for votes on a balanced budget amendment and other economic measures that have almost no chance of success, given Democrats' opposition.
Last week, after lawmakers pressed for guidance from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, he responded that Congress needed to make the decision.
''I want to see the numbers add up,'' he said. ''I want to see the revenues and expenditures balanced. As for how to do it -- that's your job.''
The key point of contention is whether the government should pay any part of its debts by raising revenue, or solely by spending less.
Industrialized nations have almost always adopted a combination of the two to cut debt, according to an International Monetary Fund survey last year. The fund, which examined 30 instances dating to the 1980s, found that nations on average closed half the gap with tax increases and half with spending cuts.
Both approaches cause immediate economic pain, but the dominant school of economic theory predicts that tax increases should be somewhat less painful to the nation's economy. A $100 spending cut reduces economic activity by $100, while an equivalent tax hike will be paid partly from savings, so that spending is reduced by a smaller amount.
Recent studies, however, have found the opposite: Countries that rely primarily on spending cuts tend to experience less economic pain in the short term. Moreover, in some cases, the cuts seem to spur faster growth.
The monetary fund study reported that a 1 percent fiscal consolidation achieved primarily through tax increases reduced economic activity by 1.3 percent over two years, while an identical consolidation driven primarily by spending cuts reduced activity by 0.3 percent.
''It's coming to be accepted wisdom that it's better to have spending cuts than tax increases,'' said Alan Auerbach, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
As with most economic questions, however, there are no certain answers. Economists do not understand why rebounds happen. They are also not sure whether the economy of the United States, the world's largest, would respond in the same way as the economies of smaller countries. One of the studies that found in favor of spending cuts says in its preface, ''It is fair to say that we know relatively little about the effect of fiscal policy on growth.''
Republicans have embraced the study's conclusion without the caveats, extending the logic to argue that any revenue increase would do more harm than good. ''A tax hike would wreak havoc not only on our economy's ability to create private-sector jobs, but also on our ability to tackle the national debt,'' the House speaker, John A. Boehner, said recently.
Republicans also cite a paper published last year by Christina Romer, a former chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, and her husband, David Romer, which studied tax hikes in the United States since World War II. The couple, professors at Berkeley, reported that a 1 percent tax increase reduced economic activity on average by 3 percent over three years.
Dr. Romer has said she believes that a similar study of the impact of spending cuts would find even greater damage.
The Obama administration has accepted the idea that most of the gap should be closed through spending cuts. It argues, however, that fairness demands a significant increase in federal revenues to preserve some of the programs that it considers important.
''The problem is that if you don't do the revenues, then to get the same amount of savings you've got to have more cuts, which means that it's seniors, or it's poor kids, or it's medical researchers, or it's our infrastructure that suffers,'' Mr. Obama said last week.
There is broad agreement among economists that the pain of tax increases can be minimized if, instead of raising taxes, the money is raised by eliminating subsides like tax credits for ethanol and interest deductions for homeowners, so that a greater share of income is subject to taxation.
''If you get rid of those preferences it makes the tax system more fair and more efficient,'' said Leonard E. Burman, a professor of public affairs at Syracuse University who specializes in tax policy. ''It makes the economy work better.''
The lack of definitive answers reflects the reality that economics is not a hard science.
''Reasonable people can sit down and, apart from any political or policy motivations, come up with different answers,'' said Robert S. Chirinko, a finance professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago who studies corporate taxation.
Dr. Chirinko said his own studies had found that tax increases caused real but modest reductions in corporate investment. Studies by the Harvard economist Martin Feldstein, a noted conservative, find larger reductions.
''The problem is that economists really can't run experiments like in science class,'' Dr. Chirinko said. ''I keep coming up with the same answer, so I have some confidence. On the other hand, Martin Feldstein is a great economist.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John A. Boehner, the House speaker, says a tax increase would harm the economy. Christina Romer, a former chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, says spending cuts might be worse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); CHRISTINA ROMER (57%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



636 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Yet Another Political Game

 BODY:
Republicans have said for years that passing trade pacts with South Korea, Colombia and Panama would increase American exports and cement relations with key allies. Yet they are now trying to undermine this goal. 
Congressional Republicans are refusing to approve the trade deals unless the White House decouples them from a measure to renew the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which aids workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition and offers extended jobless benefits.
The Obama administration has bent over backward to make the package palatable to Republicans. After weeks of negotiations, Max Baucus, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Dave Camp, the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, announced a deal last month to trim the assistance program's benefits.
Republican leaders, however, immediately backpedaled, claiming that proper procedure required that the worker assistance renewal be submitted as a separate bill. That contention looks like a trap designed to win passage of the trade agreements without the benefits program.
Slashing the program is bad policy. The United States Chamber of Commerce and other business groups support it as an important part of the national trade strategy. Last year, many House Republicans voted to extend the program, but the Senate refused.
To ensure passage of the trade agreements before the August recess, the White House must submit them to the House before the end of this month. The administration has suggested several ideas, including submitting the benefits measure to the House as a stand-alone bill, but having it attached to the Korean trade deal when it is submitted to the Senate. This would ensure that it could not be amended in the Senate.
But Republicans are still saying no to everything. At some point, President Obama should call their bluff. If they like the trade agreements, they will have to approve them -- with worker assistance as part of the deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%); MAX BAUCUS (59%); DAVE CAMP (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



637 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Beltway, Pessimism, Frustration and Even Yawns on Budget Talks

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Reporting was contributed by Mark Arax in Fresno, Calif., Robbie Brown in Atlanta, Dan Frosch in New Mexico and Ian Lovett in Los Angeles.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- On Friday morning, President Obama insisted that he completely understood how the American people -- a phrase he mentioned more than two dozen times -- felt about the slow pace of negotiations over the debt ceiling.
''For the general public -- I've said this before, but I just want to reiterate -- this is not some abstract issue,'' the president said in a news conference at the White House, adding that he knew that the American people ''expect more.''
''They expect,'' he said, ''that we actually try to solve this problem.''
But, as Yoda once said, there is a profound difference between try and do. And a quick, informal selection of voices from across the country over the weekend found both pessimism and cynicism about the state of negotiations in Washington, resignation about the partisan jousting and more confusion than conniption about what exactly will happen if the president and his Republican opponents cannot make a deal to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2. 
And neither side, they say, looks good.
''They're all boneheads,'' said Steve Ruzika, 55, an entrepreneur from Boca Raton, Fla., who added that while he is politically conservative, he is fed up with both ends of the political spectrum.
''This has been brewing for a long time,'' Mr. Ruzika said. ''They should have solved it before now.''
Indeed, the drama of whether the government will raise the debt ceiling (to the chagrin of some conservatives demanding tighter financial belts) or allow it to remain as is (to the horror of the administration and economists who predict financial ruin) seemed largely lost on a populace involved in more pressing -- and more pleasant -- summer distractions.
''I have no interest in it,'' said Stephanie Perone, an assistant at a financial services company in San Francisco, who was drinking wine with a friend during Friday's happy hour. ''It's just the same thing over and over.''
And while the spats between the president and the House majority leader, Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, may have electrified fans of inside-the-Beltway action, Ms. Perone said there were few, if any, audience members around her office's water cooler. ''I think that they're talking more about the Casey Anthony trial,'' she said.
Mr. Obama acknowledged as much on Friday, saying, ''The American people are not interested in the reality TV aspects of who said what and did somebody's feelings get hurt.''
''That may be good for chatter in this town,'' he added. ''It's not something that folks out in the country are obsessing about.''
Polls seem to echo the assertions that Americans have other things on their minds. According to a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in late June, the economy and employment continue to dominate the public's attention, as the president also suggested on Friday, with the budget deficit lagging well behind.
''I'm just worried about finding a job: That's priority No. 1 for me,'' said Michael White, 24, a recent college graduate in Atlanta. ''I think it is in politics, too. But these guys do spend a lot of time on other issues.''
And while Mr. Obama said that the debt ceiling was not an amorphous issue, on a warm Saturday afternoon in a place like Clovis, Calif., a suburb of Fresno, it was not exactly concrete.
''We don't think in trillions,'' said Sharon Cheek, who sat in the shade of a maple tree with her sister, Eula Bundy. ''We think in hundreds and maybe thousands once in a while. So, sorry if all this hullabaloo sounds a little unreal to us.''
Ms. Bundy agreed, resignedly. ''They're going to do what they're going to do,'' she said. ''How much damage can they do?''
A lot, say those who work in the nation's centers of finance. Todd Kramer, who trades energy derivatives on the New York Mercantile Exchange, said that a government default would produce catastrophic market reactions. ''If the U.S. can default, what is safe?'' he said.
But even Mr. Kramer, who was out in Manhattan on a Saturday night, says he believes an agreement will be reached, as do many of his colleagues.
''It's like tracking a hurricane,'' Mr. Kramer said. ''The storm is kind of in the gulf now. As time goes on and it gets closer to the deadline, people pay attention.''
Sure enough, many discounted the negotiations as mere political theater. And not very good theater at that, said Barry Brents, 41, who works in the finance office of a San Francisco construction company. ''It doesn't keep me up at night,'' he said.
On Friday, Mr. Obama strived to explain what it all meant and how bad things could get. ''Congress has run up the credit card, and we now have an obligation to pay our bills,'' he said, listing potential negative consequences of a default, like ''where interest rates rise for everybody all throughout the country, effectively a tax increase on everybody.''
That sort of language, no doubt, was meant to resonate with people like Brad Hunt, 36, a graduate student at St. John's College in Santa Fe, N.M., who said he had put money in the stock market and was concerned about his investments.
''The whole problem is that there are people who have more credit debt than income, and they go out and buy a flat-screen television,'' said Mr. Hunt, who expressed pessimism about a deal being reached. ''Our politicians are a reflection of that rate of consumption.''
And that sense of disappointment pervades the feelings of both Republican and Democratic voters. Helanie Greene, 63, of Taos, N.M., said she was a supporter of Mr. Obama but was concerned he would concede too much in talks with Republicans over the issue.
''I think he'll fold again,'' Ms. Greene said. ''I've been such a fan of his, but every time he negotiates he ends up compromising.''
Jill McCullough, 47, a stay-at-home mother in Atlanta and a Republican, said she thought most of the back and forth in Washington was just political point-scoring. ''When it's on the news,'' she said, ''I want to change the channel.''
Indeed, more than anything, there seems to be a sense of resignation among the American people that Mr. Obama cited so many times on Friday.
People like Chris Perry, a retired police officer, who was taking a pastry break at a French bakery in Fresno with his new wife, Naleelad, on Saturday.
The newlyweds seemed happy, but not necessarily with their country or their leaders.
''Whatever is going to happen is going to happen,'' Mr. Perry said. ''And at this level, we're just going to have to deal with the fallout. Maybe that's cynicism talking, but it's hard to take politics in the country seriously any more.''
Still, as the weekend came to an end, there was also a sense among some that a deal was inevitable. During Sunday brunch at the Shaky Alibi, a Los Angeles restaurant, Mary Kate Spach, 36, said she had not been following the talks, but was not worried. ''I'm not as nervous about them not getting a deal done,'' she said, ''as I probably should be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRESIDENT OBAMA (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEBT CEILING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ERIC CANTOR (55%); CASEY ANTHONY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



638 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Letting Bankers Walk

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Ever since the current economic crisis began, it has seemed that five words sum up the central principle of United States financial policy: go easy on the bankers.
This principle was on display during the final months of the Bush administration, when a huge lifeline for the banks was made available with few strings attached. It was equally on display in the early months of the Obama administration, when President Obama reneged on his campaign pledge to ''change our bankruptcy laws to make it easier for families to stay in their homes.'' And the principle is still operating right now, as federal officials press state attorneys general to accept a very modest settlement from banks that engaged in abusive mortgage practices.
Why the kid-gloves treatment? Money and influence no doubt play their part; Wall Street is a huge source of campaign donations, and agencies that are supposed to regulate banks often end up serving them instead. But officials have also argued at each point of the process that letting banks off the hook serves the interests of the economy as a whole. 
It doesn't. The failure to seek real mortgage relief early in the Obama administration is one reason we still have 9 percent unemployment. And right now, the arguments that officials are reportedly making for a quick, bank-friendly settlement of the mortgage-abuse scandal don't make sense.
Before I get to that, a word about the current state of the mortgage mess.
Last fall, we learned that many mortgage lenders were engaging in illegal foreclosures. Most conspicuously, ''robo-signers'' were attesting that banks had the required documentation to seize homes without checking to see whether they actually had the right to do so -- and in many cases they didn't.
How widespread and serious were the abuses? The answer is that we don't know. Nine months have passed since the robo-signing scandal broke, yet there still hasn't been a serious investigation of its reach. That's because states, suffering from severe budget troubles, lack the resources for a full investigation -- and federal officials, who do have the resources, have chosen not to use them.
Instead, these officials are pushing for a settlement with mortgage companies that, reports Shahien Nasiripour of The Huffington Post, ''would broadly absolve the firms of wrongdoing in exchange for penalties reaching $30 billion and assurances that the firms will adhere to better practices.''
Why the rush to settle? As far as I can tell, there are two principal arguments being made for letting the banks off easy. The first is the claim that resolving the mortgage mess quickly is the key to getting the housing market back on its feet. The second, less explicitly stated, is the claim that getting tough with the banks would undermine broader prospects for recovery.
Neither of these arguments makes much sense.
The claim that removing the legal cloud over foreclosure would help the housing market -- in particular, that it would help support housing prices -- leaves me scratching my head. It would just accelerate foreclosures, and if more families were evicted from their homes, that would mean more homes offered for sale -- an increase in supply. An increase in the supply of a good usually pushes that good's price down, not up. Why should the effect on housing go the opposite way?
You might point to the mortgage relief that would supposedly be extracted as part of the settlement. But if mortgage relief is that crucial, why isn't the administration making a major push to reinvigorate its own Home Affordable Modification Program, which has spent only a small fraction of its money? Or if making that program actually work is hard, why should we believe that any program instituted as part of a mortgage-abuse settlement would work any better?
Sorry, but the case that letting banks off the hook would help the housing market just doesn't hold together.
What about the argument that getting tough with the banks would threaten the overall economy? Here the question is: What's holding the economy back?
It's not the state of the banks. It's true that fears about bank solvency disrupted financial markets in late 2008 and early 2009. But those markets have long since returned to normal, in large part because everyone now knows that banks will be bailed out if they get in trouble.
The big drag on the economy now is the overhang of household debt, largely created by the $5.6 trillion in mortgage debt that households took on during the bubble years. Serious mortgage relief could make a dent in that problem; a $30 billion settlement from the banks, even if it proved more effective than the government's modification program, would not.
So when officials tell you that we must rush to settle with the banks for the sake of the economy, don't believe them. We should do this right, and hold bankers accountable for their actions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (70%); SCANDALS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



639 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Sony's Remake of Studio System

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
LOS ANGELES -- If Louis B. Mayer haunts the Irving Thalberg Building, once his seat of power at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, he may recognize more than the walnut walls. The building is now the home of Sony Pictures Entertainment, and there are signs that Mayer's old studio system is being revived.
As Hollywood has backed away from movie stars as too expensive and too unreliable, Sony has embraced its favorites. On Friday, the studio will open ''Friends With Benefits,'' a romantic comedy with Justin Timberlake in a leading role. It is Sony's third film with Mr. Timberlake in less than 10 months, and comes on the heels of his performances in ''The Social Network'' last October and in ''Bad Teacher,'' which opened just over three weeks ago.
This month Sony released ''Zookeeper,'' a comedy, made in partnership with MGM, with Kevin James as the star, a writer and a producer. Next year, it has ''Here Comes the Boom'' with Mr. James, last year it had ''Grown Ups,'' and the year before, ''Paul Blart: Mall Cop'' -- in all, four of his latest five pictures. 
Sony, whose film operation for 15 years has been run by Amy Pascal, the company's co-chairwoman, has emerged as perhaps the closest contemporary approximation of a classic studio. Its movies change, but those who make them remain remarkably consistent, thanks to personal relationships and shared tastes that have largely supplanted the rigid contractual arrangements that allowed Mayer to build an empire around the likes of Norma Shearer, Greta Garbo, Lionel Barrymore and Clark Gable.
Of the Sony films released in 2011, the studio reckons that all have involved filmmakers or stars with whom it has worked repeatedly.
Adam Sandler and Will Smith, two of Sony's most reliable suppliers, both have a film on tap in the next year. Mr. Sandler, 16 of whose latest 21 films have been at Sony, next has ''Jack and Jill,'' a comedy set for release in November.
In May, Mr. Smith stars in ''Men in Black III.'' It will be the eighth time he has landed at Sony in his last 10 films (putting aside voice work and a cameo elsewhere).
''It gives us stability,'' Ms. Pascal said.
This kind of stability is rare in Hollywood, where there has been a decline in the number of production deals. Instead, studios are focusing on core relationships.
Thus, Universal Pictures has worked repeatedly with Judd Apatow, who has directed three movies there since his debut with ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'' in 2005, and Warner's relationship with Clint Eastwood has lasted decades.
But few have matched the breadth or consistency of relationships at Sony, where Dennis Dugan, the director of ''Jack and Jill,'' has made nine of 10 pictures since 1997, including ''Don't Mess With the Zohan.''
''It's Hollywood, it's still whom you know,'' said Peter Dekom, an entertainment lawyer. The arrangement has been steadily, if not always hugely, profitable.
In its latest fiscal year, which ended March 31, Sony Pictures contributed $7.3 billion, or about 8 percent, of $87 billion in total revenue for its parent company in Japan, the Sony Corporation. In addition, about 78 percent of the unit's reported $466 million in operating profit for the year came from two television transactions.
But for many in contemporary Hollywood -- where virtually everyone is suffering from the decline in home video revenue -- the goal is not so much to score huge profits as to stay in the game until presumed new revenue streams grow from quickly evolving digital technologies.
At Sony, that has meant finding a comfort zone in which executives can work regularly, and often economically, with a core group of stars and filmmakers who consistently earn their keep, even if their pictures do not often challenge the more expensive animated and effects-driven blockbusters at the box office.
If Sony smacks of the old studio system in substance, the style has changed. Mayer talked down to stars and filmmakers from a carpeted dais in his Thalberg building office; Ms. Pascal is more likely to curl up on the couch beside them.
She spoke from a marketing conference in Cancun last week, where she joined Michael Lynton, the studio's chief executive, and Doug Belgrad, the president of its Columbia Pictures unit, in a telephone conversation about a system they described as having evolved not by conscious design, but rather from the personal chemistry among executives.
''A lot of it is about Amy's personality,'' said Mr. Belgrad, who rose through the ranks under Ms. Pascal, after having started as a junior executive 18 years ago.
''Don't say that, it's all of us,'' responded Ms. Pascal, who said her staff must cultivate stars and filmmakers without ignoring fresh opportunities or becoming hostage to unproductive whims and escalating financial demands.
''It's more difficult,'' she said of Sony's approach, which often aims to score with lower-cost films like ''Bad Teacher'' -- it was made for $20 million, and has taken in more than $134 million at the worldwide box office -- by using good will to keep deals in line. ''There is an expectation on both sides that you'll do things the other person wants you to do.''
Sony Pictures last year ranked fifth among six major studios at the domestic box office, despite successes with ''Salt,'' which starred Angelina Jolie, who also appeared last year in ''The Tourist'' for the studio; ''Grown Ups,'' with Mr. James and Mr. Sandler, among others; and ''The Karate Kid,'' which featured Jaden Smith, and included his father, Will Smith, among its producers.
A noteworthy failure was ''How Do You Know,'' which cost about $120 million to produce and took in less than $50 million at the worldwide box office. It was written and directed by James L. Brooks, a core member of the Sony family whose last four films were made at the studio.
Sony last topped the box office in 2006, when it released ''The Da Vinci Code,'' ''Casino Royale'' and a series of hits from Will Ferrell, Mr. Sandler and Mr. Smith.
Next year, it is looking for a boost not just from Mr. Smith's return in ''Men in Black III,'' but also ''The Amazing Spider-Man,'' which aims to rebuild its ''Spider-Man'' series around a pair of young stars, Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone, who were fostered in the Sony system.
Mr. Garfield, 27, was relatively unknown when Sony and the director Marc Webb cast him to succeed Tobey Maguire as the superhero. But he had already made an impression at the studio with his performance as Eduardo Saverin in ''The Social Network,'' a Sony film.
Ms. Stone, 22, who plays his love interest, similarly got her big career break with a 2007 performance in ''Superbad'' for the studio, then went on to appear in ''The House Bunny,'' ''Zombieland,'' ''Easy A,'' and ''Friends With Benefits'' for Sony.
''When we were doing the screen tests for 'Superbad,' you could see, this girl, she's going to be a star,'' said Ms. Pascal, who, a bit like Mayer, has enough muscle to back up her instincts by pushing a new star up the ladder.
Mr. Timberlake, who spoke by telephone on Sunday, said Ms. Pascal personally wrangled him into ''Friends With Benefits,'' casting him as a romantic lead after his pair of supporting roles. ''She called me directly, and said you have to make this movie,'' Mr. Timberlake recalled.
Only this weekend, he added, Ms. Pascal said she intended to extend their relationship by getting involved with MySpace, in which Mr. Timberlake recently took an ownership stake.
Still, there are pitfalls. In the wake of ''Superbad,'' Sony quickly featured another of its stars, Michael Cera, in a pair of movies, ''Nick & Norah's Infinite Playlist'' and ''Year One.'' Both fell flat.
''You don't want to fall into a pattern that is past its time'' Mr. Lynton said.
In the wake of a hit, Mr. Belgrad said, the tendency is to say ''let's keep things as much the same as possible'' on the next one.
The tougher part, he and the others said, is to cultivate a next film from a friend of the family who has flopped. It is something Sony did with the director Jake Kasdan, who did poorly with ''Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story,'' but went on to make ''Bad Teacher,'' and with Will Gluck, who directed ''Fired Up!,'' a little-seen comedy, but nonetheless stepped up to ''Easy A,'' and now ''Friends With Benefits,'' both for Sony.
Sometimes, talent development is helped along by contracts that give the studio an option on a next film at a relatively modest price. But Mayer, by and large, was probably the tougher enforcer of his rights.
When a movie hits, Ms. Pascal said of her modern-day stable of stars, ''they inevitably want a different deal. And more money.''
Online Correction: July 17, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this story misstated the movies made by Dennis Dugan for Sony. ''I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry,'' a movie directed by Mr. Dugan, was made by Universal Pictures.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 19, 2011 Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about Sony's movie productions misidentified, in some editions, the company that made ''I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry.'' That film's was produced and released by Universal Pictures, not Sony.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sony has handled four of Kevin James's last five films, like ''Zookeeper,'' with Ken Jeong and Rosario Dawson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACY BENNETT/COLUMBIA PICTURES AND METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER PICTURES)
Mila Kunis and Justin Timberlake in ''Friends With Benefits.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLEN WILSON/SCREEN GEMS) (B1)
Sony's films change, but those who make them remain remarkably consistent. Michael Lynton and Amy Pascal run the studio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Another Sony favorite, Adam Sandler, stars in ''Jack and Jill,'' a comedy, coming out this fall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACY BENNETT/COLUMBIA PICTURES)
 Andrew Garfield made an impression at Sony with his role in ''The Social Network,'' and soon he will be Spider-Man. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); COMEDY FILMS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%)

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (94%); SONY CORP (93%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (58%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (50%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (58%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (87%); AMY PASCAL (77%); ADAM SANDLER (76%); WILL SMITH (57%); CLINT EASTWOOD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



640 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Retreat

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
In the negotiations over the debt ceiling, the Republican Party had everything mapped out except the endgame.
For months, Republican leaders used all the tools at their disposal -- the anti-spending intensity of their base, the White House's desire for a deal, the specter of dire consequences if the debt ceiling wasn't raised -- to leverage their way into a favorable position. Despite controlling just one house of Congress, they spent the spring and summer setting the agenda for the country: not whether to cut spending, but how deeply and how fast.
But last week, the Republican offensive suddenly collapsed in disarray. In the space of a few days, a party that once looked capable of pressing the White House into a deal that would have left liberals fuming found itself falling back on two less-palatable options instead: either a procedural gimmick that would try to pin the responsibility for raising the ceiling on President Obama, or a stand on principle that would risk plunging the American economy back into recession. 
What went wrong? It turns out that Republicans didn't have a plan for transitioning from the early phase of a high-stakes political negotiation, when the goal is to draw stark lines and force the other side to move your way, to the late phase, in which the public relations battle becomes crucial and the goal is to make the other side seem unreasonable, intransigent and even a little bit insane.
Winning the later phase doesn't require making enormous compromises, or giving up the ground you've gained. But it requires at least the appearance of conciliation, and a few examples of concessions that you're willing to (oh-so-magnanimously) make to those unreasonable ideologues in the other party.
For Republicans, this would have required one of two maneuvers: either modestly scaling back the size of the spending cuts they were seeking, or finding a few places in the tax code (the ethanol tax credit? the carried-interest loophole? those corporate jets the president keeps talking about?) where they could live with raising revenue by eliminating a tax break or capping a deduction.
For months, I had assumed that the Republican leadership would be able to find support within its caucus for option No. 2. Based on John Boehner's brief flirtation with a ''grand bargain'' that would have included tax reform, the speaker of the House thought so as well.
But based on how quickly he abandoned that flirtation, it appears we were both mistaken. The result was a hanging curveball for President Obama, who spent last week posing as the Last Reasonable Man in Washington, contrasting his willingness to compromise on entitlements with the House Republicans' intransigence on taxes.
To conservatives, this has been a galling spectacle. A president who spent his first two years in office taking spending to a historic high is accusing them of fiscal irresponsibility? A president who spent the spring demagoguing House Republicans for their willingness to restructure Medicare is citing a much more modest set of cuts as evidence of his fiscal seriousness?
But this fury misses the point. Obama has been playing the reasonability card so successfully because his opponents won't (or can't) play one of their own.
It's not that Republicans needed to tug their forelock and go along with whatever grand bargain the White House whipped up. But to win the endgame, they needed something they were willing to concede, something they could tout in public as an example of meeting the Democrats partway.
Their inability to make even symbolic concessions has turned a winning hand into a losing one. A majority of Americans want to close the deficit primarily with spending cuts -- which is to say, they're primed to side with conservatives in the debt-ceiling debate. But in trying to turn that ''primarily'' into a ''completely,'' the right has squandered this advantage. By 48 percent to 34 percent, a Quinnipiac poll found last week, Americans will blame Republicans if debt-ceiling gridlock precipitates an economic crisis.
In the end, the threat of such a backlash will probably impel Republicans to make some kind of concession anyway, if they don't admit that's what they're doing. (The maneuver that Mitch McConnell and Harry Reid are working on, for instance, would reportedly cut spending by $1.5 trillion and then let the president extend the debt ceiling on his own, effectively shaving about $500 billion off the spending cuts that Republicans were originally seeking.)
By backing into a compromise and shrouding it in procedural gimmickry, Republican legislators may hope to throw the Tea Party's watchdogs off the scent. But both the politics and the substance of such a deal would probably be worse for conservatives than the kind of bargain that might have been available otherwise -- if more Republicans had only recognized that sometimes a well-chosen concession can be the better part of valor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (85%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); CAUCUSES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (66%); TAX REFORM (65%); FUEL TAX (61%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (61%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



641 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: In Athens, Clinton Praises Greece for Tackling Its Debt

BYLINE: By NIKI KITSANTONIS

 BODY:
ATHENS -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Sunday emphasized Washington's ''strong support'' for Greece's commitment to right its debt-ridden economy through tough austerity measures, and she thanked the government for its contributions to NATO-led operations in Libya and diplomatic efforts in the Middle East. 
On her first visit to Athens as secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton said at a news conference that Greece could rely on the United States' unequivocal support in its efforts to emerge from a debt crisis that has shaken the euro zone and rattled the global economy.
''We stand by the people and government of Greece as you put your country back on a path to economic stability and prosperity,'' Mrs. Clinton said, noting that such progress was essential for the United States, too. ''We have a lot riding on our relationship together.''
At the news conference, held with the Greek foreign minister, Stavros Lambrinidis, she praised the determination of the government to impose a raft of austerity measures that Parliament approved last month amid violent street protests. She described the initiatives as ''vital first steps and acts of leadership.''
Comparing the measures to ''bitter medicine'' and ''the chemotherapy to get rid of the cancer,'' she emphasized that the price of inaction would have been much higher.
''Greece has inspired the world before, and I have every confidence that you are doing so again,'' Mrs. Clinton said. She also praised moves aimed at encouraging business activity and investment in Greece.
Her visit -- the second leg of a 12-stop diplomatic tour that started in Turkey -- comes as Greece prepares for an emergency meeting on Thursday in Brussels, where the leaders of the 17 euro zone countries will attempt to hammer out a deal on a second bailout.
Mr. Lambrinidis said Sunday that Greece had already made progress. ''The Greece of today is nothing like Greece two years ago,'' he said.
The Socialist government's success in pushing through the unpopular austerity measures, he added, had saved Greece, which had been downgraded several times by international credit rating agencies. ''Many had gambled on the collapse of Greece and of Europe,'' Mr. Lambrinidis said. ''But all have been proven wrong, and we will continue to prove them wrong.''
He acknowledged Washington's support for Greece. ''Friends show their worth in the difficult times,'' he said.
Mrs. Clinton also expressed gratitude for Greece's ''partnership on a shared agenda that spans the globe.'' She cited the NATO-led Libya operation, which uses military bases on the Aegean island of Crete, and Greek efforts to stop a flotilla challenging the Israeli blockade of Gaza.
''At a moment when domestic issues are rightly taking center stage in Greece, we remain grateful for Greece's continued engagement in meeting the shared challenges we face,'' she said.
She and Mr. Lambrinidis also discussed developments in the Balkans and efforts to integrate the western Balkan states into NATO, as well as the ongoing talks aimed at reunifying Cyprus -- long a divisive issue between Greece and Turkey.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Clinton at the Acropolis Museum on Sunday. She leaves for India on Monday. (POOL PHOTO BY SAUL LOEB) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); APPROVALS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (52%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) GREECE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BELGIUM (79%); TURKEY (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



642 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides Confident on Debt Talks Despite Impasse

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Top Republican lawmakers and the Obama administration's budget director predicted Sunday that an agreement would be reached before the federal government defaults on its debt in early August, but both sides continued to squabble over the details of competing proposals, offering little evidence that a deal was at hand. 
''I do not believe that responsible leaders in Washington will force this to default,'' Jacob J. Lew, the White House budget office chief said on the ABC News program ''This Week.'' ''All of the leaders of Congress and the president have acknowledged that we must raise the debt limit. And the question is how.''
Republicans made clear that they intended to vote this week on their ''cap, cut and balance'' plan, which would cut the deficit, cap federal spending as a share of the economy and amend the Constitution to require a balanced budget. The changes would be made along with a provision that would lift the debt limit.
The proposal is expected to pass the House, but its fate is much less certain in the Senate, as Mr. Obama and Democratic lawmakers have made clear that they oppose the measure. That has not discouraged Republicans, who see the ''cap, cut and balance'' proposal as a popular rallying point.
''That to me is the only plan that will work,'' Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said on the CNN program ''State of the Union.''
No formal negotiations are taking place this weekend. But Congressional leaders, appearing on the Sunday morning news shows, floated a variety of plans, a sign of just how far Congress is from any final deal.
Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, backed Mr. Obama's proposal to cut $4 trillion in federal spending in the coming decade, while Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, sketched out a proposal, which is to be formally released on Monday, that will include as much as $9 trillion in reductions.
''We have a terrible track record, Republicans and Democrats alike, of promising to get our spending under control and never doing it,'' Senator Coburn said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS.
Neither Senator Coburn nor Senator Durbin showed any sign of willingness to compromise, even as they agreed a deal must be reached -- and soon.
''We know what we need to do,'' Senator Durbin said on ''Face the Nation.'' ''The president does not need to spell it out. We need the political will to do it.''
The debate in the coming days is likely to be dominated by the Republicans' ''cap, cut and balance'' proposal, even though Mr. Durbin said it had no chance of getting through the Senate.
Asked why Congress, with the nation at the verge of default, would waste its time on a measure that both sides know is unlikely become law, Mr. Durbin said the Democrats had no choice.
''The Republicans are insisting this debate take place before anything happens,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''We have to check the boxes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TOM COBURN (78%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



643 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Sony's Remake of Studio System

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- If Louis B. Mayer haunts the Irving Thalberg Building, once his seat of power at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, he may recognize more than the walnut walls. The building is now the home of Sony Pictures Entertainment, and there are signs that Mayer's old studio system is being revived.
As Hollywood has backed away from movie stars as too expensive and too unreliable, Sony has embraced its favorites. On Friday, the studio will open ''Friends With Benefits,'' a romantic comedy with Justin Timberlake in a leading role. It is Sony's third film with Mr. Timberlake in less than 10 months, and comes on the heels of his performances in ''The Social Network'' last October and in ''Bad Teacher,'' which opened just over three weeks ago.
This month Sony released ''Zookeeper,'' a comedy, made in partnership with MGM, with Kevin James as the star, a writer and a producer. Next year, it has ''Here Comes the Boom'' with Mr. James, last year it had ''Grown Ups,'' and the year before, ''Paul Blart: Mall Cop'' -- in all, four of his latest five pictures. 
Sony, whose film operation for 15 years has been run by Amy Pascal, the company's co-chairwoman, has emerged as perhaps the closest contemporary approximation of a classic studio. Its movies change, but those who make them remain remarkably consistent, thanks to personal relationships and shared tastes that have largely supplanted the rigid contractual arrangements that allowed Mayer to build an empire around the likes of Norma Shearer, Greta Garbo, Lionel Barrymore and Clark Gable.
Of the Sony films released in 2011, the studio reckons that all have involved filmmakers or stars with whom it has worked repeatedly.
Adam Sandler and Will Smith, two of Sony's most reliable suppliers, both have a film on tap in the next year. Mr. Sandler, 16 of whose latest 21 films have been at Sony, next has ''Jack and Jill,'' a comedy set for release in November.
In May, Mr. Smith stars in ''Men in Black III.'' It will be the eighth time he has landed at Sony in his last 10 films (putting aside voice work and a cameo elsewhere).
''It gives us stability,'' Ms. Pascal said.
This kind of stability is rare in Hollywood, where there has been a decline in the number of production deals. Instead, studios are focusing on core relationships.
Thus, Universal Pictures has worked repeatedly with Judd Apatow, who has directed three movies there since his debut with ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'' in 2005, and Warner's relationship with Clint Eastwood has lasted decades.
But few have matched the breadth or consistency of relationships at Sony, where Dennis Dugan, the director of ''Jack and Jill,'' has made nine of 10 pictures since 1997, including ''You Don't Mess With the Zohan.''
''It's Hollywood, it's still whom you know,'' said Peter Dekom, an entertainment lawyer. The arrangement has been steadily, if not always hugely, profitable.
In its latest fiscal year, which ended March 31, Sony Pictures contributed $7.3 billion, or about 8 percent, of $87 billion in total revenue for its parent company in Japan, the Sony Corporation. In addition, about 78 percent of the unit's reported $466 million in operating profit for the year came from two television transactions.
But for many in contemporary Hollywood -- where virtually everyone is suffering from the decline in home video revenue -- the goal is not so much to score huge profits as to stay in the game until presumed new revenue streams grow from quickly evolving digital technologies.
At Sony, that has meant finding a comfort zone in which executives can work regularly, and often economically, with a core group of stars and filmmakers who consistently earn their keep, even if their pictures do not often challenge the more expensive animated and effects-driven blockbusters at the box office.
If Sony smacks of the old studio system in substance, the style has changed. Mayer talked down to stars and filmmakers from a carpeted dais in his Thalberg building office; Ms. Pascal is more likely to curl up on the couch beside them.
She spoke from a marketing conference in Cancun last week, where she joined Michael Lynton, the studio's chief executive, and Doug Belgrad, the president of its Columbia Pictures unit, in a telephone conversation about a system they described as having evolved not by conscious design, but rather from the personal chemistry among executives.
''A lot of it is about Amy's personality,'' said Mr. Belgrad, who rose through the ranks under Ms. Pascal, after having started as a junior executive 18 years ago.
''Don't say that, it's all of us,'' responded Ms. Pascal, who said her staff must cultivate stars and filmmakers without ignoring fresh opportunities or becoming hostage to unproductive whims and escalating financial demands.
''It's more difficult,'' she said of Sony's approach, which often aims to score with lower-cost films like ''Bad Teacher'' -- it was made for $20 million, and has taken in more than $134 million at the worldwide box office -- by using good will to keep deals in line. ''There is an expectation on both sides that you'll do things the other person wants you to do.''
Sony Pictures last year ranked fifth among six major studios at the domestic box office, despite successes with ''Salt,'' which starred Angelina Jolie, who also appeared last year in ''The Tourist'' for the studio; ''Grown Ups,'' with Mr. James and Mr. Sandler, among others; and ''The Karate Kid,'' which featured Jaden Smith, and included his father, Will Smith, among its producers.
A noteworthy failure was ''How Do You Know,'' which cost about $120 million to produce and took in less than $50 million at the worldwide box office. It was written and directed by James L. Brooks, a core member of the Sony family whose last four films were made at the studio.
Sony last topped the box office in 2006, when it released ''The Da Vinci Code,'' ''Casino Royale'' and a series of hits from Will Ferrell, Mr. Sandler and Mr. Smith.
Next year, it is looking for a boost not just from Mr. Smith's return in ''Men in Black III,'' but also ''The Amazing Spider-Man,'' which aims to rebuild its ''Spider-Man'' series around a pair of young stars, Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone, who were fostered in the Sony system.
Mr. Garfield, 27, was relatively unknown when Sony and the director Marc Webb cast him to succeed Tobey Maguire as the superhero. But he had already made an impression at the studio with his performance as Eduardo Saverin in ''The Social Network,'' a Sony film.
Ms. Stone, 22, who plays his love interest, similarly got her big career break with a 2007 performance in ''Superbad'' for the studio, then went on to appear in ''The House Bunny,'' ''Zombieland,'' ''Easy A,'' and ''Friends With Benefits'' for Sony.
''When we were doing the screen tests for 'Superbad,' you could see, this girl, she's going to be a star,'' said Ms. Pascal, who, a bit like Mayer, has enough muscle to back up her instincts by pushing a new star up the ladder.
Mr. Timberlake, who spoke by telephone on Sunday, said Ms. Pascal personally wrangled him into ''Friends With Benefits,'' casting him as a romantic lead after his pair of supporting roles. ''She called me directly, and said you have to make this movie,'' Mr. Timberlake recalled.
Only this weekend, he added, Ms. Pascal said she intended to extend their relationship by getting involved with MySpace, in which Mr. Timberlake recently took an ownership stake.
Still, there are pitfalls. In the wake of ''Superbad,'' Sony quickly featured another of its stars, Michael Cera, in a pair of movies, ''Nick & Norah's Infinite Playlist'' and ''Year One.'' Both fell flat.
''You don't want to fall into a pattern that is past its time'' Mr. Lynton said.
In the wake of a hit, Mr. Belgrad said, the tendency is to say ''let's keep things as much the same as possible'' on the next one.
The tougher part, he and the others said, is to cultivate a next film from a friend of the family who has flopped. It is something Sony did with the director Jake Kasdan, who did poorly with ''Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story,'' but went on to make ''Bad Teacher,'' and with Will Gluck, who directed ''Fired Up!,'' a little-seen comedy, but nonetheless stepped up to ''Easy A,'' and now ''Friends With Benefits,'' both for Sony.
Sometimes, talent development is helped along by contracts that give the studio an option on a next film at a relatively modest price. But Mayer, by and large, was probably the tougher enforcer of his rights.
When a movie hits, Ms. Pascal said of her modern-day stable of stars, ''they inevitably want a different deal. And more money.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about Sony's movie production rendered incompletely the title of a movie that the director Dennis Dugan made for Sony. It is ''You Don't Mess With the Zohan,'' not ''Don't Mess With the Zohan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sony has handled four of Kevin James's last five films, like ''Zookeeper,'' with Ken Jeong and Rosario Dawson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACY BENNETT/COLUMBIA PICTURES AND METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER PICTURES)
Mila Kunis and Justin Timberlake in ''Friends With Benefits.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLEN WILSON/SCREEN GEMS) (B1)
Sony's films change, but those who make them remain remarkably consistent. Michael Lynton and Amy Pascal run the studio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Another Sony favorite, Adam Sandler, stars in ''Jack and Jill,'' a comedy, coming out this fall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACY BENNETT/COLUMBIA PICTURES)
 Andrew Garfield made an impression at Sony with his role in ''The Social Network,'' and soon he will be Spider-Man. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); COMEDY FILMS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%)

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (94%); SONY CORP (93%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (58%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (50%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (58%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (87%); AMY PASCAL (77%); ADAM SANDLER (76%); WILL SMITH (57%); CLINT EASTWOOD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



644 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Herbert Hoover Was Hooveresque

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: And so are we.

 BODY:
Brad DeLong leads us to Herbert Hoover opposing what was, in effect, a mild fiscal stimulus in the form of early payment of veterans' bonuses. 
 It cannot be borrowed without impairment of the credit of the National Government and thus destroy that confidence upon which our whole system depends. It is unthinkable that the Government of the United States should resort to the printing press and the issuance of fiat currency as provided in the bill which passed the House at the last session of Congress under the leadership of the Democratic vice presidential candidate. Such an act of moral bankruptcy would depreciate and might ultimately destroy the value of every dollar in the United States.
This should (but won't) dispel the myth that Hoover was some kind of proto-Keynesian. But look,also, at how closely Hoover's line of argument follows that of Very Serious People today. Running up debt would cause a collapse of confidence -- except that under FDR the US ran up vastly more debt, with no bond vigilantes ever making an appearance:
And great fear of destroying the value of the dollar, in the midst of an epic deflation that had raised the purchasing power of a dollar almost 50 percent:
Luckily, we've learned from all that, and nobody would fall into similar fallacies today -- except, of course, everyone with actual influence on policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); DEFLATION (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



645 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Reaganite Delusions

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The invisible post-1980 boom.

 BODY:
Michael Boskin has always been a politically ambitious Republican; but he used to know how to read basic economic data. Not anymore, I guess:
How does Michael Boskin do math?
He writes in the Wall Street Journal this morning:
The lower marginal tax rates in the 1980s led to the best quarter-century of economic performance in American history.
The delusion that we never had good growth until Reagan came along is very widespread on the right; somehow the whole postwar generation, in which everyone's incomes doubled, has been erased from memory. But it's still there in the national accounts:
That's annual data; surely the case for the miracles of Reaganomics can't rest on choosing just one quarter in 1982 as a starting point? (And as Richard Green shows, even that doesn't work). Yes, the numbers starting from the 1930s are high, because growth looks good when you start from a depressed base; but the same is true for 1982, the year beloved by Reaganites.
More broadly, what normal observer, looking at this chart, would see evidence that something wonderful happened beginning in the early 1980s? The good years for US economic growth were those beginning soon after the war -- and that growth, very much unlike post-1980 growth, was widely shared with the middle class.
But all that happened with high marginal tax rates and strong unions. Inconceivable! And therefore it must not have happened.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HISTORY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



646 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Texas Tales

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What's the model, Rick?

 BODY:
The Times has been running a Room for Debate on the Texas "jobs juggernaut". And Texas has indeed been adding jobs faster than the rest of the nation, a fact that has become especially notable in the past couple of years, as overall job growth has been so poor.
But what's the story here? Oddly, it's rare to see anyone in this debate talking in terms of models - that is, the kind of stylized, simplified, but internally consistent stories (not necessarily mathematical) that are what economic analysis is all about. So let me try to fill that gap by offering three informal models of what might be going on in Texas.
In each of these stories, I imagine, to clarify things, an initial state in which America is divided into two identical regions; call them Texas and New York. Each of these regions has a labor force which lives in houses; I ignore other factors of production, except that I assume that building houses requires land, which is in limited supply. And we assume that initially everything is in equilibrium: wages and the cost of housing are the same in both regions.
Then something changes in Texas, which causes Texas to gain jobs faster than New York. The question is, what is the change? As you'll see, each story has some implications about what else we should be seeing besides differential job creation. So here goes.
Model I: Demography
Assume that for some reason the population of Texas, and hence its work force, rises - say, because of immigration from Mexico, or because of high birth rates among past immigrants.
What this will do is push wages down - and the reduction in wages will lead to faster job growth. (No, we're not talking about wages in a liquidity trap). So you'll see employment growing, but the driving force will be supply - more people looking for jobs - rather than demand.
Model II: Zoning (the Ed Glaeser approach)
Suppose that Texas loosens up land-use regulations, so that housing becomes cheaper relative to New York. In that case workers will move to Texas, even if they receive somewhat lower wages than they would in New York, because of the lower cost of living. What happens next? Well, the increased supply of labor pushes wages down, which leads to job growth - just as in the demographically driven case. In this case, however, it's a benign thing. But it's about housing policy, not a pro-business environment in the general sense.
Model III: Supply-side marvels (the Goodhair doctrine)
Finally, suppose that Rick Perry's wonderful policies actually have led to a surge in business productivity. Then we'd expect to see the demand for labor rise; this will pull up wages, and draw workers into Texas, leading to high job growth.
So what do we actually see? I won't do a lot of data-crunching right now, but surely everything we know about Texas points to some combination of models I and II. Wages in Texas are low, and have probably fallen relative to those in slower-growth states. On the other hand, the cost of living is low, largely thanks to cheap housing. What we don't see is either the productivity surge or the wage surge we would have expected if the Goodhair model was at all right. As Ryan Avent points out, Texas real GDP per capita has actually grown very slowly.
One more thing: how should we think about Texan performance in the recession and weak recovery? Well, I'd say that we should measure that performance around the trend - a trend that reflects the forces described by models I and II. Of course Texas has faster job growth than the rest of the country; it always does. The question is whether relative to that trend the state has done remarkably well. And it hasn't: the unemployment rate in Texas is slightly above the rate in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); ZONING (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); IMMIGRATION (64%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (64%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



647 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Yankees Waiting to See How Much Colon Has Left

BYLINE: BEN SHPIGEL


HIGHLIGHT: If the right-hander's struggles of his past two starts continue, the Yankees may be forced to start shopping for a replacement in the rotation.

 BODY:
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. - In another two starts, Bartolo Colon should surpass the 100-inning mark, which he has not done since 2005. The Yankees were concerned about his durability heading into the season, and his struggles over his last two outings - 13 runs and 16 hits in six and a third innings - raised the possibility that he is nearing his expiration date. That issue has come into focus with the July 31 nonwaiver trade deadline less than two weeks away.
"I understand what you're saying there," Manager Joe Girardi said. "If his stuff would have been real flat the other night, then maybe I would have been worried about that."
Colon was victimized by shoddy defense in Toronto last Thursday, when five of the eight runs he allowed in two-thirds of an inning were unearned, but he also walked two batters and his signature two-seam fastball came in a tick slower.
His next opportunity to rebuff the skepticism - and prove that his left hamstring feels fine - comes Tuesday night against the Tampa Bay Rays, who battered him July 7 at Yankee Stadium. Another middling start by Colon, who does not speak to reporters the day before he pitches, could add credence to the notion that the Yankees' staff is not deep enough to win a seven-game series in October. If the Yankees do not bolster their rotation, Girardi said he had confidence in his staff.
"This is what we have, yeah," Girardi said. "This is what we have, and we've gotten to this point because of them. They're throwing the ball really well, and there's no reason that can't continue."
Internally, their best option is Ivan Nova, who was 8-4 with a 4.12 earned run average before being sent down to clear rotation space for Phil Hughes. Among potential trade candidates, the Colorado ace right-hander Ubaldo Jimenez is appealing because of his age (27) and favorable contract (owed $4.2 million in 2012 with economical options for 2013 and 2014). But for those reasons, any contending team would be interested.
Trading for a left-hander would be palatable, as a way to help neutralize Boston's left-handed thump, but not many appear to be available. Wandy Rodriguez of Houston signed an onerous contract extension in January.
PENA GOES TO D.L. The Yankees lost some flexibility Monday when Ramiro Pena was placed on the disabled list after undergoing an emergency appendectomy. His timetable for a return is unclear, but his ability to play every infield position but first base - and play it well - was of great value to a team playing without Alex Rodriguez for another four weeks.
"It'll be a birthday I'm sure he'll never forget," Joe Girardi said of Pena, who turned 26 on Monday.
To replace Pena, the Yankees promoted the 23-year-old third baseman Brandon Laird, his first call-up to the majors. Laird's flight from Columbus, Ohio, was delayed, jeopardizing his availability for Monday's game, but his pending arrival had no impact on Eduardo Nunez's job security. Since assuming the starting job at third base, Nunez has committed two errors, including a costly first-inning mistake last Thursday that led to five unearned runs.
Girardi said Nunez would remain the starter, but he also takes over the backup second baseman's job. Laird, despite his ability to play first base and a little in the outfield, is viewed as a backup at third base. He was batting .266 with 10 home runs, 49 runs batted in and a .415 slugging percentage for Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre - better production than the catching prospect Jesus Montero, who had 7 homers, 34 R.B.I., and a .406 slugging percentage.
How long Laird remains with the team hinges on two factors beyond Pena's recovery: a potential trade for a veteran third baseman, and the return of Eric Chavez (fractured left foot), who is scheduled to begin a rehabilitation assignment Tuesday for Class A Tampa. Girardi said Chavez would need several games in the minors to build up his stamina, but, if healthy, he would assume that sure-handed, left-handed-hitting reserve role the Yankees could use.
LONG NIGHT The Rays used eight relievers Sunday during their 1-0 loss to Boston, which ended after 16 innings and at 1:55 a.m. Monday. "Not an optimal situation" is how their manager, Joe Maddon, characterized it. They reloaded by replacing Adam Russell with Alex Torres, but the Yankees might catch their exhausted staff at a good time. After arriving from Toronto, Joe Girardi said he watched the game until the 13th inning before going to sleep.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%) Colon, Bartolo; Girardi, Joe; Pena, Ramiro; Baseball; New York Yankees

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) New York Yankees

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (57%) Colon, Bartolo; Girardi, Joe; Pena, Ramiro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



648 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Battling Energy Waste in Hot, Rich Cities

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Some of the world's richest cities leave the windows open with the air conditioning on.

 BODY:
Bettina Wassener, who is based in Hong Kong for the International Herald Tribune, has filed a Green column for The Times exploring why there is so much energy waste there and in other advanced cities. One reason is that energy costs are a tiny fraction of the price of owning expensive real estate, so why not have the windows open while the air conditioning is blasting.
Here's a snippet:In Hong Kong, as in much of the rest of the world right now, a debate is raging about how best to generate the additional electricity that is needed to power economic growth and development.
Do we use more oil and coal, which pollute and are ultimately finite? Or nuclear energy, which comes with safety concerns, and is being phased out entirely in Germany? Or renewable energies like solar power, which many nations are promoting, but which make up only a small portion of the energy mix in most countries, and often have physical limitations?
Relatively little attention is being paid to what some analysts refer to as the "fifth fuel": ways to consume less energy in the first place.
This is odd. After all, energy efficiency and reduced consumption are comparatively easy to achieve, especially in places like Hong Kong, where rapid economic development has led to soaring consumption, but where environmental awareness is not yet as established as in the West. Read the rest.Given the great global buildout of cities that's under way, there's enormous potential to cut energy waste before a building moves from blueprint to steel and glass. As I wrote recently:The challenge and opportunity in fast-growing developing countries is particularly acute. According to some analysts, more square footage of structures will be built in the next few decades than has been built by human societies in all previous history. Read the rest.Some Chinese entrepreneurs are leaders in seeking sustainable ways to urbanize and stay cool, most notably Zhang Yue, the president of Broad Industrial Group, which has developed a system for quickly assembling buildings from pre-fabricated, and heavily insulated, components. Here's the most notable example so far:
Of course, it's important to recognize the limits of energy conservation even as this strategy is pursued as aggressively as possible. While the era of consumer-driven growth may be ebbing, the sheer size of the mushrooming global middle class, even if it becomes an energy-thrifty culture, guarantees the need for far more electricity.
You may recall this sobering statistic:Consider that India, while far down the list of greenhouse giants -- with a fifth of China's emissions, measured per-capita or gross -- is poised for greatly expanded energy demand. If you dare, please track down and read the 2009 paper by Michael Sivak of the University of Michigan on projected air conditioning demand in big cities in hot places. A single finding is sufficient to make the point: "For example, the potential cooling demand in metropolitan Mumbai is about 24 percent of the demand for the entire United States."Also, as is being reported from Japan, air conditioning is a life saver during hot summers, and energy-conservation efforts related to the precautionary shutdown of many of the country's nuclear power plants appear to have led to a surge in deaths from heat stroke. (Hat tip to Robert Buckley of Wind Sector.)
These are all reasons why any meaningful global energy quest, as I see it, starts with conservation and efficiency but still has to pursue new energy sources that can work for the long haul.

        
Energy Needs of China's Consumers Swamping Efficiency Gains
        
On Gore's Climate and Obama Complaints
        
Behind China's Shift on Energy and Growth
        
China, Coal, Congress, Cancun, Climate
        
The Ghost of Kyoto Visits Cancun

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); CITIES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRENDS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%) China; Climate Change; consumption; Energy Efficiency; Global Warming; middle class; Air Conditioning; Consumer Behavior; Economic Conditions and Trends; Environment; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; International Herald Tribune; Hong Kong; India; Japan; Mumbai (India); cities; Economics; energy

ORGANIZATION: International Herald Tribune

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (65%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) HONG KONG (96%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (65%); GERMANY (56%) China; Hong Kong; India; Japan; Mumbai (India)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



649 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Funds of Funds May Actually Increase Risk, Study Finds

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: Funds of funds with more than 20 underlying managers begin to lose the benefit of diversification, according to a study led by Stephen Brown at New York University's Stern School of Business.

 BODY:
Ever since the financial crisis, the fund of hedge funds model has been under fire.
Such firms, which sell baskets of hedge funds to investors, charge too much, investors have complained. And the investments, said to offer diversification, did little to buffer the market losses of 2008. 
 Now, it appears, that diversification could actually put them at more risk, according to a forthcoming study.
Not only do funds of funds with more than 20 underlying managers begin to lose the benefit of diversification, they are also more exposed to tail risk events (or highly unlikely, devastating occurrences), according to the study, led by Stephen Brown, a finance professor at New York University's Stern School of Business.
They "may believe that excess diversification reduces tail risk exposure, but the data suggests that tail risk increases with the degree of diversification," according to the study, which has been accepted for publication by the Review of Asset Pricing Studies.
The reason, in part, is because when a fund of funds has a large number of underlying managers, it begins to track indexes more broadly in extreme event situations. While hedge funds in normal times do not necessarily track the market, extreme events often increase correlations. When they are aggregated, that risk exposure is concentrated, Mr. Brown said. Nearly half of the 3,767 funds of funds studied for the paper have more than 20 funds. 
"The focus in the industry has been misplaced," said Mr. Brown, who co-authored the study with Greg Gregoriou and Razvan Pascalau of the State University of New York, Plattsburgh. "What is the sweet spot, the optimal diversification? That's the wrong question. The right one is what's the appropriate amount of diversification for the amount of assets under management." 
Due diligence can be expensive, the authors say, and funds of funds with fewer assets may not be able to afford to conduct it properly. The authors say it costs $12,500 at a minimum to properly vet managers. Larger managers, for instance those with billions in assets like Blackstone or UBS, can easily afford to conduct due diligence and have less downside risk than smaller managers who cannot afford it.
"If you have $100 million, then you really can't afford to be diversified beyond 20 funds," Mr. Brown added.
There have been previous studies that show a diminishing return for funds of funds that have too many managers. 
In their own study, Mr. Brown and his co-authors found that the benefits of diversification began to disappear somewhere between 10 to 20 underlying funds, and that "diversification beyond 25 funds leads in most cases to a significant reduction in relative performance."

        
UBS Hires New Head of Hedge Fund Distribution
        
Oops, E-Mail Has Done It Again

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUNDS OF FUNDS (97%); HEDGE FUNDS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); LITERATURE (69%) Blackstone Group; Greg Gregoriou; Hedge Funds; New York University's Stern School of Business; Razvan Pascalau; Stephen Brown; UBS; Brown, Stephen; Books and Literature; Writing and Writers; New York University; State University of New York; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: New York University; State University of New York

PERSON: Brown, Stephen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



650 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Everyone's Pointing Fingers

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Does your company contribute to charities?

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Nation: A Brave Man
A hero receives the Medal of Honor (and this Marine wins a prize, too).
The Debt Ceiling: Are They Insane?
Wait a second. The budget deficit is shrinking? Stuart Shapiro wonders if our politicians are great negotiators or just insane. Gallup finds Americans prefer spending cuts and are open to tax hikes. Anthony Orlando confronts five myths about the debt-ceiling crisis. (For me, this video sums up the debate so far.)
The Data: Retail Is Up But So Is Misery
Consumer prices record the largest drop in a year. Mark Perry lists the Top 10 manufacturing industries of 2010. Hotel demand increases. Retail sales increase slightly (pdf). The Association of American Railroads reports steady growth in rail traffic. It turns out commerce has a pulse. The United States trade gap widened to near a three-year high in May. The Misery Index is still the highest since 1983 and unemployment claims are still above 400,000. An Esquire writer asks, "How can we not love Obama?"
Jobs 1: The Data Are Ugly 
The number of job openings in May was three million, unchanged from April. There are nearly five workers for every available job. GE's chief executive demands that businesses hire more people. The Chamber of Commerce reports that small businesses are ignoring GE's chief executive. In fact, more than 75 percent of small-business owners surveyed by Harris Interactive don't plan to add any employees over the next year. Economists admit they're clueless about jobs and debate whether we need 90,000 or 187,000 new jobs per month to keep the unemployment rate steady.
Jobs 2: Everyone's Pointing Fingers
Eric Singer says that the war on small business is what's keeping job gains low: "Small businesses are starved for capital and inundated with regulations. The starvation is the cumulative result of years of self-inflicted wounds affecting capital sources, and regulations are accelerating, all with enormous negative effects on our economy." Douglas A. McIntyre says that start-ups are not hiring because of "the effect of government austerity measures at all levels, which have caused a series of layoffs that are likely to continue as states, town and the federal government sort out their deficit problems." Tyler Durden (angrily) explains why small businesses aren't hiring and won't be hiring. One reason: "The vast majority of small businesses are marginal, and they cannot afford to hire employees when the already crushing costs of health care continue rising."
The Economy: Honey, We're Wiped Out
As corporate earnings climb and piggy banks fill up, the National Federation of Independent Business reports that small-business optimism dropped in June: "an unsurprising reading, basically unchanged from the previous month and solidly in recession territory." One reason: late payments. David Schuler laments the decline in personal consumption. A new study says that "America's middle class has been utterly, completely wiped out." Mark Thoma asks if we're stuck in low growth forever: "I believe we will eventually recover to a new growth path that is near, but a bit lower than the old one. The recovery will be slow, but we will get there eventually. How long it takes depends, in part, upon how aggressively we attack the problem with monetary and fiscal policy measures (or how much we make things worse with mistakes in either area such as premature deficit reduction or interest rate hikes)." Women owners of small businesses expect better times. The Fed considers QE3.
Red Tape Update: Congress's Bright Bulbs
Proposed legislation may harm Department of Defense small-business contractors. The Feds start relaxing health care laws for states. The light-bulb bill goes dark. A fan who caught Jeter's 3,000th hit may owe big in taxes.
Marketing: Don't Listen to Kevin Costner
A retail marketer says that merchants should use social media to listen better: "Listening is the new marketing. It stands to reason that, if people are talking to each other and those conversations have influence, merchants should take time to listen to what is being said. Listening is the on-ramp to engagement and I would not pursue a social media plan of action without first taking time to listen." Jason Hennessey offers four simple ways to increase Web site conversion rates. Janet Aronica shares 25 ideas for livening up your Facebook content, including: "Use the top photo strip of your Facebook page in a creative way. Spell out a word for a particular campaign, make a cartoon by connecting the images or show unique head shots of employees." A new survey reveals that the vast majority of businesses do not have formal policies regarding social media activity. Jessica Commins explains how to keep Kevin Costner from ruining your blog and business.
Management: Kenny Powers Is the C.E.O. 
Rob McGovern is the same driven entrepreneur he was before his horrific car accident -- except that now his brain works differently. Harvard Business Review wants us to consider ditching the endless stream of PowerPoint presentations. Netflix teaches us how NOT to raise prices. Kenny Powers explains his strategic plans. We can learn about managing contacts from Bill Clinton. Tim Berry explains the differences between small-business owners and high-growth entrepreneurs.
Success Strategies: Good News for McDains!
Good news for McDain's Restaurant: children now make up the smallest-ever percentage of the United States population. Small businesses may benefit from the end of the space shuttle. Nick Hughes tells how not to launch your company. Christian Arno explains why we need the foreign language Internet: "many organizations are missing out on this golden opportunity, because even in this digital age they refuse to go multilingual." The UPS Store introduces a Facebook contest. Pitney Bowes communications makeover contest ends soon. Danielle Gould explains how one company built a data-driven start-up. Dan Shapiro explains why he sold his start-up to Google.
Your People: Do They Know What 26 x 27 Is?
These 10 companies have the toughest interview questions. Example: "What's 26 times 27?" A new bill targets workplace bullying. A frequent flier hits 10 million miles (but did he know he could fly for free?). Kate Rogers explains why fines for not paying overtime can cost small businesses big bucks. Mitch Betts says you can't avoid office politics.
Around The States: Food Fight In California
A new program will offer solar systems in the Bay Area. It's not too late to attend a small-business seminar in the Los Angeles area. New Hampshire small businesses receive $13 million. Many restaurants in Baltimore may be unaware that they need to "paws" for registration. A New Jersey survey says that business owners aren't planning to hire. Californians brace for a food fight over vending machines. Michigan businesses are seeing signs of improvement. The White House is sending help to selected cities. Las Vegas reports a modest increase in small-business hiring. Philadelphia papers are to be offered with tablets. A new start-up in Brooklyn is everything an energy firm isn't supposed to be.
Around the World: There's No Magic In China 
Egypt's young entrepreneurs emerge. Chinese authorities have set an important condition before the latest Harry Potter movie can be released. The Canadian government proves it can waste money too! Hmm, maybe Russia isn't such a bad place to own a business after all.
Finance: Do Credit Cards Punish Small Businesses?
Credit unions are increasing their commercial lending. Keith Girard explains how business credit cards punish small-businesses: "Given the disparities between business and consumer credit cards, some small-business owners may opt to simply use their personal credit cards for business expenses." Half of cell phone owners use mobile banking once a week. Mortgage applications decrease.
Technology: Signs of a Bubble?
RIM promises seven new Blackberrys in the coming months. Cynthia Harvey lists 63 open source replacements for popular financial software. Dropbox values itself at more than $5 billion. Microsoft is going into retail.
The Week Ahead: Real Estate Numbers Coming
Building permits and housing starts will be announced Tuesday, with existing home sales to be released Wednesday. Economists will continue to pay close attention to weekly unemployment claims on Thursday, and the Philly Fed will release its manufacturing survey at week's end.
This Week's Bests
Reason To Not Please Everyone. Michael Hess says there's a price for trying to please everyone: "Can you please everyone? Probably not. Should you please everyone? Probably not. But if you are trying to run a good, healthy, well regarded, and 'happy' business, should you try to please everyone? Again, the answer is still probably not. So it seems to me that being presidential means knowing when to try, when not to, and how to do either and get the desired results."
Reason To Be Charitable. Laurel Tielis gives advice for connecting with charities to brand and build businesses: "You don't even have to have an event to donate to a charity. You can just pick a date, for example, the anniversary of your store's opening, and give a percentage of purchases that day to a charity of your choice. You, of course, will tell everyone via your Web site, e-mail, newsletter and mainstream as well as social media."
Reason to Re-Think Our Strategy. Melody Biringer, a self-described start-up junkie, says that "developing a break-out brand isn't easy. But you will be able to hit a nerve with your brand story no matter how crowded your industry if you approach it from these two very important angles: What can you really do and what space can you really own?"
This Week's Question: Does your company contribute to charities? I know I could be doing more.
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

        
This Week in Small Business: Fat, Flat and Falling
        
This Week in Small Business: Worse Than We Think?
        
This Week in Small Business: A Union for Owners
        
This Week in Small Business: How to Sell Out
        
This Week in Small Business: Repeal the Tanning Tax!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); DEBT CEILING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CHARITIES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); TAX INCREASES (56%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN RAILROADS (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



651 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Online Reaction: Law School Economics

BYLINE: DANIEL MCDERMON


HIGHLIGHT: A recent Times article on the conflicting incentives at work in legal education inspired responses across the Web.

 BODY:
In Sunday's Times, David Segal wrote about the legal education system, in which the interest of schools and students are often in conflict. From Mr. Segal's article:Legal diplomas have such allure that law schools have been able to jack up tuition four times faster than the soaring cost of college. And many law schools have added students to their incoming classes - a step that, for them, means almost pure profits - even during the worst recession in the legal profession's history.
It is one of the academy's open secrets: law schools toss off so much cash they are sometimes required to hand over as much as 30 percent of their revenue to universities, to subsidize less profitable fields.
In short, law schools have the power to raise prices and expand in ways that would make any company drool. And when a business has that power, it is apparently difficult to resist.The article focused in detail on the case of New York Law School. Its dean, Richard A. Matasar, has been a vocal critic of many practices common in law schools, even as New York Law School employed many of them:N.Y.L.S. is ranked in the bottom third of all law schools in the country, but with tuition and fees now set at $47,800 a year, it charges more than Harvard. It increased the size of the class that arrived in the fall of 2009 by an astounding 30 percent, even as hiring in the legal profession imploded. It reported in the most recent U.S. News and World Report rankings that the median starting salary of its graduates was the same as for those of the best schools in the nation - even though most of its graduates, in fact, find work at less than half that amount.Quite a few law professors and legal bloggers have picked up on the article, offering their own takes on the subject. 
At the blog Lawyers, Guns and Money, Paul Campos argues that legal academics should investigate why costs for law students have risen so rapidly. He calls particular attention to rising salaries for law school professors:One main driver of increasing costs across legal academia has been an increase in the size and the compensation of law school faculty. For example, 30 years ago the salaries of Michigan's tenure-track law faculty ran from about $75,000 to $155,000 in 2010 dollars. Today the comparable figures are about $140,000 to $300,000 (This counts only base salary. Actual salaries are about 15 percent higher for most faculty because of "summer research grants" that for most faculty are de facto salary supplements.) Interestingly, 30 years ago the law school's dean's salary was no higher than that of several other senior faculty. Last year the dean's published salary was $442,000.Matt Leichter, who writes a blog called the Law School Tuition Bubble, suggests that the system of rankings and incentives makes it unlikely for schools to reform themselves:To me it's obvious that non-Ivy League law schools have no hope of internal reform without losing their place in the U.S. News rankings and by consequence access to high LSAT-scoring applicants, for they should realize by now that the legal education system has over-expanded and will certainly contract. If they're not going to make symbolic gestures personally, reformers at lower status law schools might as well save their breath and tell the board of trustees that it's time to close up shop.Further, Mr. Leichter notes, "demand for lawyers is separate from demand for law degrees, and the American Bar Association's goal of law as an elite profession contradicts its concurrent goal of law as a democratic profession open to the masses."
Ann Althouse, a professor at the University of Wisconsin Law School, suggests that the U.S. News and World Report rankings for law schools provide a service primarily for law professors, helping supply them with students by creating the "appearance of an orderly market in which potential buyers can see the value of the thing they will buy at such a high price."
A graduate of New York Law School, Daniel Gershburg, offered a strong defense of the school and Mr. Matasar.
Mr. Segal has also responded to some of the hundreds of comments that his article inspired. One of his responses addresses the issue of reform:The people inside the system, even its most ardent critics, can't reform it. There is too much pressure to compete, and once you start competing, there is really no way to enact reform.Mr. Segal has previously written about law students' reliance on loans to fund their education and the use of merit scholarships as an incentive: Is Law School a Losing Game? (January 9, 2011) Law Students Lose the Grant Game as Schools Win (May 1, 2011)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (97%); LEGAL EDUCATION (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (88%); RANKINGS (87%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (63%) education; law school; Law Schools; Legal Profession; New York Law School

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Law School

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



652 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: What Americans Really Think About the Debt Ceiling

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Open-ended responses from 700 Americans surveyed by Gallup about why they think the debt ceiling should or should not be raised.

 BODY:
This month, a Gallup poll found that Americans are almost twice as likely to say they want their Congressional representative to vote against rather than for an increase in the debt ceiling (42 percent to 22 percent, with 35 percent saying they had no opinion).
Gallup also asked those Americans who had expressed opinions to explain why they had answered that question as they had. Today the polling organization has released all 700 of these open-ended responses, which can provide some useful insights into how ordinary Americans think about this issue.
I just whipped up a couple of word clouds (via wordle.net) to give a sense of the themes behind both sets of responses. Here are the responses from people who think their representative in Congress should vote against raise the debt ceiling:
Here are the responses from people who think their representative in Congress should vote for raising the debt ceiling:
For what it's worth, I see that the word "economy" was used more frequently by those who wanted to raise the debt ceiling. Notice any other interesting patterns here?

        
Dimming Optimism for Today's Youth
        
Consumers Say They'll Spend More This Christmas
        
More Americans 'Completely Satisfied' With Their Pay
        
The Fattest States of America
        
The Rich Drink More

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%) debt ceiling; Gallup; Harold Pollack; survey; National Debt (US); Polls and Public Opinion

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



653 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Dave & Buster's Files For I.P.O.

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: Dave &#038; Buster's -- the restaurant chain whose customers trade arcade tickets for stuffed animals, critter rings and other tchotchkes -- filed on Monday for an initial public offering, providing a quick exit for its private equity owners.

 BODY:
Dave & Buster's Entertainment -- the restaurant chain whose customers exchange arcade tickets for stuffed animals, critter rings and other tchotchkes -- filed on Monday for an initial public offering, providing a quick exit for its private equity owners. 
Wellspring Capital Management took the company private in 2006 for $257 million in cash, putting it up for auction at the height of the financial crisis in 2008. But Wellspring could not find a suitable bidder for a couple of years. In 2010, Oak Hill Capital Partners, the private equity firm, paid $570 million for Dave and Buster's.
The I.P.O. will represent a victory for Oak Hill, which owns 95.7 percent of the company, with the remainder being controlled by management. It is not known how many management-owned shares will be included in the offering.
In the regulatory filing, Dave and Busters set a preliminary fund-raising target of $150 million, an estimated figure listed solely to determine filing fees
 In the filing, the Dallas-based company said that it generated total revenue of $528.6 million for the 12 months ending May 1, 2011, and booked $28 million in operating income in that same period. The company added to its cash position in 2010, listing $34.4 million in cash and cash equivalents as of January 30, 2011, compared to just over $16 million at the same time the previous year.
Roughly half of the revenue at the chain's 56 U.S. locations comes from food and beverage, it said, with revenue from amusements such as skee-ball, air hockey, and redemption games making up the remaining sales. The company said that it will begin trading under the ticker symbol "PLAY," but did not specify the exchange.
Goldman Sachs, Jefferies and Piper Jaffray are listed as underwriters on the offering.

        
Precision Castparts to Buy Primus International for $900 Million
        
Avolon Lands $1.4 Billion in Financing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (77%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); FUNDRAISING (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%) Dave and Buster's; Oak Hill Capital Partners; Wellspring Capital Management; I.P.O./Offerings; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: DAVE & BUSTER'S ENTERTAINMENT INC (96%); PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WELLSPRING CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LLC (58%); OAK HILL CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (57%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (53%)

TICKER: PCP (NYSE) (64%); GS (NYSE) (58%); PJC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (96%); NAICS713120 AMUSEMENT ARCADES (96%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (64%); NAICS331512 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



654 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Calling Off Auction, Borders to Liquidate

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and JULIE BOSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Borders called off an auction for itself after finding no last-minute saviors, and instead plans to go ahead with a bid from two liquidators.

 BODY:
8:31 p.m. | Updated 
The Borders Group said Monday that it would liquidate, shutting down the 40-year-old bookseller after it failed to find a last-minute savior.
Though it is not a big surprise, the move will still strip the publishing industry of shelf space that is becoming increasingly scarce as brick-and-mortar stores continue to founder.
Borders said it would proceed with a proposal by the private equity firms Hilco and the Gordon Brothers Group to close down its 399 remaining stores. That liquidation plan will be presented on Thursday to the federal judge overseeing the company's bankruptcy case.
The company will begin closing its remaining stores as soon as Friday, and the liquidation is expected to run through September. The chain has 10,700 employees.
Borders' fate appeared sealed after a committee of its biggest unsecured creditors rejected the company's plan to sell itself to the Najafi Companies for $215.1 million. The committee had argued that the bid by Najafi, which also owns the Book-of-the-Month Club, could have allowed the investment firm to liquidate Borders without the creditors benefiting.
Borders had set Sunday as a deadline to find alternatives to liquidation. But while it had held talks with Books-A-Million and other companies, it was unable to sign up another deal.
"Following the best efforts of all parties, we are saddened by this development," Mike Edwards, Borders' president, said in a statement. "The headwinds we have been facing for quite some time, including the rapidly changing book industry, e-reader revolution, and turbulent economy, have brought us to where we are now."
The company, which began in 1971 as a used bookstore in Ann Arbor, Mich., fought to stay afloat for years amid a tough retail environment, persistent management turnover and a failure to move aggressively into digital books. In February, it filed for bankruptcy protection and closed about a third of its 650 stores.
Publishers, disheartened by the news, had watched Borders' troubles deepen for years. After the bookseller declared bankruptcy in February, many publishers pressed for a reorganization plan, but they were left unconvinced that executives had a workable way to revamp the company.
"It saddens me tremendously because it was a wonderful chain of bookstores that sold our books very well," said Morgan Entrekin, the president and publisher of Grove/Atlantic, an independent publisher. "It's part of the whole change that we're dealing with, which is very confusing."
The news exposed a deep fear among publishers that bookstores would go the way of the record store, leaving potential customers without the chance to stumble upon a book and make an impulse purchase. Publishers have worried that without a specific place to browse for books, consumers could turn to one of the many other forms of entertainment available and leave books behind.
Independent shops have closed in droves as book sales have moved online, especially to Amazon. Barnes & Noble put itself up for sale last year and has focused on expanding its digital footprint as sales of print books slowed.
Publishers said that with Borders gone, they would plan for smaller print runs and shipments. Employees at major publishing houses worried about layoffs because many companies have staff members who work only with Borders.
The closing could particularly hurt paperback sales. Borders was known as a retailer that took special care in selling paperbacks, and its promotion of certain titles could propel them to best-seller status.
When it filed for bankruptcy protection in February, Borders owed $272 million to its 30 largest unsecured creditors, including Penguin Group USA, Hachette Book Group, Simon & Schuster, Random House, HarperCollins and Macmillan.
Most publishers were unwilling to restore normal trade terms to Borders after the bankruptcy filing and insisted on being paid for books in cash and in advance.
The closings will almost certainly be a boon for Borders' competitors. Other national book chains, like Barnes & Noble and Books-A-Million, could move into stores vacated by Borders. Some competing bookstores are already nearby. A spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble said that 70 percent of Barnes & Noble's stores are within five miles of an existing Borders store.
Independent bookstores, historically the foes of the big chains, stand to benefit from the closings of Borders stores. That effect has already begun to be seen all over the country from the Borders stores that closed earlier this year.
At Next Chapter Bookshop in Mequon, Wis., sales rose 20 percent in June and July after a Borders several miles away went out of business, said Lanora Hurley, the owner.
"Everybody was saying those customers are going to go online," Ms. Hurley said. "But there's still a market for print books, and I'm happy to see that that is flowing to an independent bookstore. I've got lots of new customers."
But the effect that superstores have had on independents in the last two decades was not entirely forgotten. Linda Bubon, an owner of Women and Children First, a 31-year-old bookstore in Chicago, said she had watched incredulously as Borders opened store after store in the last 10 years.
"Now we have this behemoth off our backs," she said. "It's not the politic answer to say that inside, there's a little happy bookseller who's jumping up and down."
Below is the internal memo to Borders employees from Mr. Edwards:
 Good afternoon, I wanted to reach out to you and give you an update on Borders' reorganization process. As you know, last week we submitted a proposal from Hilco and Gordon Brothers as the stalking horse bid, which set the minimum bid requirement for the auction. Following continued negotiations and the best efforts from all parties, no bidders have presented a formal proposal to keep our company operating as a going concern. Therefore, under the terms of our DIP financing agreement, we intend to present to the court for approval the proposal from Hilco and Gordon Brothers, under which these two companies will purchase our stores' assets and administer the liquidation process. We will submit this proposal at a hearing scheduled for Thursday, July 21, and we will not proceed with the auction originally scheduled for tomorrow, July 19. All of us have been working hard towards a different outcome, and I wish I had better news to report to you today. The truth is that Borders has been facing headwinds for quite some time, including a rapidly changing book industry, eReader revolution, and turbulent economy. We put in a valiant fight, but regrettably in the end we weren't able to overcome these external forces. For decades, our stores have been destinations within our communities - places where people have sought knowledge, entertainment, and enlightenment and connected with others who share their passion. Whether you work in our stores, distribution centers, or at the Store Support Center in Ann Arbor, each of you has played a valuable role in helping ignite the love of reading in our customers. Together, Borders and Waldenbooks associates have helped millions of people discover new books, music, and movies, and I hope you'll take pride in the role we've played in our customers' lives. Now we must begin switching gears and preparing for the wind-down process, which we expect to begin for stores as soon as this Friday, July 22 and conclude by the end of September. Wind-down will begin in phases in other areas, such as our Store Support Center and distribution centers, over the next week. Please know that we are committed to sharing information with you as quickly as possible. To that end, you should expect to hear from your manager by the end of this week with details regarding separation information, severance, benefits, and other resources for employees. You have my assurance that we will do whatever we can to help our employees through this transition. In closing, I'd like to express how much I appreciate each and every one of you and all that you've done. The last few months have been stressful, uncertain times, but you've stood by Borders and have continued to impress me with your dedication, resilience, and strong drive to fight until the very end to save our company. Whether you've been with Borders for a few months or several years, I hope you know how much I value you and all that you've contributed. The coming weeks will be difficult as we wind down operations, but I hope you'll continue to hold your head high. You've done me proud and, from the bottom of my heart, I thank you. - Mike

        
Borders Faces Liquidation After Takeover Bid's Rejection
        
Borders Picks Najafi Companies as Lead Bidder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); RETAILERS (76%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (76%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (72%); MUSIC STORES (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%) Borders Group; Bankruptcies; Book Trade and Publishing; Shutdowns (Institutional); Barnes & Noble Inc; Borders Group Inc; Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (96%); BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (69%); BOOKS-A-MILLION INC (67%); GORDON BROTHERS GROUP LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Barnes & Noble Inc; Borders Group Inc

TICKER: BAMM (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (96%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (96%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



655 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Looking Inside the Consumer Bust

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Consumer spending, under the official government definition, still has a historically high share of gross domestic product. But that is misleading in several ways.

 BODY:
A few commenters responded to my Sunday column by asking whether consumer spending had really declined all that much. A blog post by Jared Bernstein discusses this issue. The crux of the argument is this chart, showing that consumer spending does not make up a smaller share of gross domestic product than a few years ago:
 There are three reasons, though, why it's a mistake to read this chart as saying there has not been a consumer bust. 
 First, consumer spending has retained its G.D.P. share because G.D.P. has done so poorly. It is only marginally higher than it was in late 2007, more than three years ago. Which is to say that consumer spending is only marginally higher than it was three years. As Mr. Bernstein explains, "the fall in consumer spending is proportionate to the decline in G.D.P." In the more than 60 years that the government has been keeping records, consumer spending has never had a weaker three-year period than in this downturn. Second, the government's definition of consumer spending is not the same definition the rest of us would use. The government largely excludes house purchases for consumer spending. If you were to add spending on new homes to the official version of consumer spending -- call it "spending by consumers" -- the category's share would be down significantly. The following chart understates the case -- because it focuses on spending on newly built homes and misses much of the spending on so-called existing homes, which make up the majority of home sales -- but it makes the case nonetheless: 
 Third, all of these consumer-spending numbers include staple goods and services that many families cannot go without, like food and health care. Spending on these staples has continued to rise over the last few years. Spending on groceries and utilities have both risen slightly faster than overall consumer spending. Spending on health care services (up 7.9 percent since late 2007, even after adjusting for inflation) and pharmaceuticals (up 5.5 percent) have risen considerably faster, according to data from IHS Global Insight. If you took out these staples and instead focused on discretionary consumer spending, you would see bigger declines still. 
 In the paper, we reproduced a version of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's powerful chart on discretionary service spending, which has dropped more than in any previous recession on record.
 Having said all this, I do think the commenters are pointing to something important. Despite the consumer bust, consumer spending -- as it's defined by the government -- remains near an all-time high. It also remains much higher than in other rich countries. I'm not sure that will always be the case, which means that the future of consumer spending probably isn't very bright, either.

        
A Consumer Bust? Or a Wage Bust?
        
What's a Crisis and What Isn't 
        
Behind the Small-Business Funk
        
Why the Big Deal About Consumer Spending?
        
The Single Woman's Shopping List

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); TRENDS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (65%); HEALTH CARE (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%) consumer spending; Jared Bernstein; Consumer Behavior; Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



656 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Weighs I.P.O. of Aircraft Unit

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: A.I.G. is again weighing an initial public offering of the International Lease Finance Corporation, its big aircraft leasing business, to help repay its government bailout.

 BODY:
The American International Group is considering an initial public offering of its giant aircraft leasing business that could be held later this year, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook on Monday.
Bankers have been approaching A.I.G. in recent weeks about a spinoff of the unit, the International Lease Finance Corporation, this person added. Such discussions are not new to A.I.G.: The insurer has considered an offering or sale of the business for years.
 Details of such an offering, including the size and timing, have yet to be determined and will depend largely on market conditions, this person said. A.I.G.'s own stock offering in May, which raised $8.7 billion and cut the government's stake in the insurer, was weighed down by uncertainty in the markets.
A stock offering of International Lease Finance would be the latest step in A.I.G.'s continuing efforts to repay its government bailout. The company has already sold or spun off a number of major businesses, including international life insurance arms and a consumer finance unit. 
But International Lease Finance has long been regarded as one of A.I.G.'s crown jewels. The A.I.G. chief executive, Robert H. Benmosche, has made no secret of his willingness to part with the unit at the right price.
While International Lease Finance had been under pressure during the financial crisis, bowed by a significant debt load, it has since rebounded. Last year, it repaid nearly $6 billion worth of loans from the government and private lenders.
The company has also continued to win new business, entering into114 lease commitments this year.
Selling off part of International Lease Finance in an offering would make a significant dent in the $53 billion that A.I.G. still owes the Treasury Department. A.I.G. plans to repay that money by selling more shares in itself -- reducing the government's stake in the company below the current level of about 77 percent -- and more asset sales.
Spokesmen for A.I.G. and the Treasury Department declined to comment.
News of A.I.G.'s plans was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal online.

        
A.I.G. Pays Back $4 Billion in U.S. Loans
        
Bank of America Shares Fall to Lowest Point in 2 Years

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEASING INDUSTRY (91%); INSURANCE (90%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); EXECUTIVES (51%) A.I.G.; AIG; American International Group; International Lease Finance Corp; American International Group Inc; Treasury Department; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Aerospace & Defense; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; International Lease Finance Corp; Treasury Department

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2011



657 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Week Ahead: Debt Limit Votes

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: The House and Senate this week plan to hold politically charged but largely symbolic votes on fiscal policy in what Congressional leaders hope is a prelude to moving ahead with a plan to increase the federal debt limit. 

 BODY:
The House and Senate this week plan to hold politically charged but largely symbolic votes on fiscal policy in what Congressional leaders hope is a prelude to moving ahead with a plan to increase the federal debt limit.
House Republicans have scheduled a vote for Tuesday on their cut, cap and balance plan that would pare billions of dollars in 2012 spending and cap future spending as a percentage of the economy. It also requires that Congress pass and send to the states a Constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget before the debt limit can be increased.
Senate Republicans want a vote on their own balanced budget plan even though Democratic leaders say it cannot pass the Senate.
"Let me tell you about the Constitutional amendment," Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No 2 Senate Democrat, said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." "It does not have the votes in the Senate. I don't know about the House of Representatives. And this notion that we somehow have to change the Constitution to do what we were elected to do is just plain wrong." 
Senate leaders hope that the failed vote in the Senate builds some momentum behind the plan hatched by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, to allow a debt limit increase to clear Congress despite Republican opposition through a complex procedural maneuver. The thinking is that the failed votes on the amendment and a standoff between the House and Senate over the cut, cap and balance legislation will demonstrate to lawmakers that the McConnell plan is the most feasible way to avoid a government default after Aug. 2
But pushing it through the House will be a challenge so lawmakers intend to let House members add more than $1 trillion in spending cuts to sweeten the pot. Conservatives said they will still resist.
"No way," Representative Jim Jordan, the Ohio Republican who leads the conservative Hose Republican Study Committee,said about the McConnell plan during an interview on "Fox News Sunday." "There's all kinds of conservatives in the Republican Study Committee, in the House conference, who will not support the plan."
Referring to Republicans and Democrats, Mr. Jordan continued, saying, "Who knows if there's s a combination of R's and D's who go for it. But I'm telling you, House conservative members, members of the Republican Senate, they're not going to support the McConnell plan. I'm not going to support the McConnell plan."
While the House and Senate have their votes, Congressional leaders are still talking with President Obama about what should be added to the final debt limit legislation in terms of proposals for future spending cuts and other policy changes.
Given the likelihood of attempts to filibuster any proposal in the Senate, just moving legislation through to passage could consume the next two weeks, including the weekends.

        
House Republicans Plan Vote on Deficit
        
McConnell Proposal Gives Obama Power to Increase Debt Limit
        
Changing Tone, Obama Pressures Both Parties on Budget Deal
        
Congressional Week Ahead: More Budget Maneuvering
        
Obama Reiterates Desire for Comprehensive Budget Package

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CALENDARS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (60%) budget; debt ceiling negotiations; week ahead; Durbin, Richard J; Jordan, Jim; National Debt (US); United States Politics and Government; House of Representatives; Senate; Congress

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: JIM JORDAN (89%); RICHARD DURBIN (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Durbin, Richard J; Jordan, Jim

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



658 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2185 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.

 BODY:
Obama Bypasses Warren in Pick for Consumer Post | President Obama has nominated Richard Cordray, the former attorney general of Ohio, to lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, bypassing Elizabeth Warren, who pushed for the agency's creation.
Mr. Obama is scheduled on Monday afternoon to formally announce the nomination of Mr. Cordray, currently the bureau's enforcement head.
Republicans and many in the financial industry opposed Ms. Warren, a Harvard law professor who called for the bureau's creation and supervised its founding as a White House adviser. They are unlikely to be appeased by Mr. Cordray, who began prominent investigations of financial companies after becoming Ohio's attorney general in 2008.
DEAL NOTES
Law School, Where Economics Doesn't Apply | The law school industry has become the cash cow of universities, increasing the numbers of incoming students as well as the money they are willing to spend for a degree, even if their diplomas are not as useful as they used to be.
NEW YORK TIMES 
Employee No. 59 | Douglas Edwards joined Google in late 1999, as one of its first employees. In a new book, he recounts the founders' antics, the then-start-up's culture of questioning, and the construction of a marketing department that always came in second to the technology.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Hertz to Buy Donlen, a Fleet Leasing Company | Hertz has agreed to buy the Donlen Corporation, a vehicle leasing and management company, for $250 million in cash, and it will assume $680 million in debt.DealBook 
Reader's Digest Is Said to Be Up for Sale | A year after coming out of bankruptcy protection, Reader's Digest has placed itself on the block, courting buyers from both private equity and media, and hoping to sell itself for as much as $1 billion, according to The Wall Street Journal.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Canadian Bank to Buy Stake in American Century | Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce has agreed to buy a major stake in American Century Investments from JPMorgan Chase for $848 million.BLOOMBERG NEWS | PRESS RELEASE 
Sichuan Halong Bids $1.5 Billion for Iron Ore Explorer | The Chinese mining group Sichuan Halong is looking to expand operations in West Africa's developing iron-ore region, with a bid to purchase all the shares in Sundance Resources, in which it already owns a majority 18.6 percent stake.REUTERS 
Medical Research Firm Said to Consider Selling Itself | Pharmaceutical Product Development, a provider of outsourced medical research, is exploring a potential sale, The Wall Street Journal reported.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Validus Defends Offer for Transatlantic Holdings | Validus Holdings, the reinsurer, said that its $3.25 billion bid for Transatlantic Holdings would create up to $1 billion in earnings that could be put toward share buybacks.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE 
With No Bidders, Borders Hopes for a Rescuer | Borders was in talks late on Sunday with the bookstore chain Books-A-Million "on some kind of potential deal," after a bidding deadline passed at 5 p.m. with no offers made for the bankrupt book chain, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing people familiar with the matter.WALL STREET JOURNAL | REUTERS 
The Strong Swiss Franc's Silver Lining | Swiss firms are working out a way to turn their nation's strong currency, which has recently been dragging down profits, to their advantage: in takeovers.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Lupin Said to Weigh Sale of Indian Drug Unit | Lupin, a maker of treatments for tuberculosis, may be considering the disposal of its Indian drug marketing arm, which could be worth up to $1 billion, people told Bloomberg News.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Samsung's X-Ray Vision | Samsung Electronics is said to be examining the medical equipment market, and is already in discussions with makers of MRI scanners and X-ray machines.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Sberbank Looks to Expand | Sberbank, the giant Russian lender, is looking at expanding into Eastern Europe, where banks worth up to $13 billion may go on the block in the coming years.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Exchanges Must Alter Strategies to Pursue Mergers | The great cross-border alliances of stock exchanges have largely failed to materialize, and IntercontinentalExchange has said bourses must "rethink their global strategies," after surprisingly strong nationalist opposition to merger plans -- as well as antitrust complications -- have barred their way.FINANCIAL TIMES 
Virgin and Cooperative Bank to Compete Over Lloyds Branches | The Lloyds Banking Group's sale of a 632-branch portfolio has attracted interest from Virgin Money and Cooperative Bank, which were the only institutions to place bids by last week's deadline.FINANCIAL TIMES 
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Greenhill's Quarterly Earnings Rise 22% | Greenhill & Company took the unusual step of announcing its earnings on a Sunday afternoon, saying profit exceeded analysts' expectations, in an apparent attempt to bolster its sagging stock price.DealBook 
Fast Traders Tell Their Side of the Story | High-frequency trading firms, known for their secrecy, are "stepping out of the shadows" as part of a lobbying effort to keep regulators at bay, The New York Times reports.
"Once the spotlight was placed on them, they looked at each other and said, 'Us, evil? Are you kidding?' " said James J. Angel, a finance professor at Georgetown University.NEW YORK TIMES 
European Banks at Risk From Sovereign Debt Holdings | The latest bank stress tests to come out of Europe show just how exposed the region's banks are to the region's sovereign debt -- a serious concern as sovereign bonds continue to lose value in a market sell-off.
Disclosures resulting from Friday's stress tests have revealed that the Continent's lenders are tied into numerous large loans to both individuals and businesses in the south.NEW YORK TIMES | NEW YORK TIMES | WALL STREET JOURNAL
Defining Capital | Floyd Norris takes a look at some of the unanswered questions that have arisen from the European bank stress tests.ECONOMIX 
Citi Reveals European Exposure | Citigroup has estimated that its exposure to the troubled peripheral economies of Europe comes to $22 billion, well above what JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America estimate their holdings in the countries to be.BLOOMBERG NEWS | CITI PRESENTATION 
China's Big Banks Cushioned by Cash | The nation's largest lenders, though battered by the markets, have been accumulating a capital buffer for two years as they prepare for trouble among debt-laden local governments.REUTERS 
Examining Blankfein's Future | Weighing in on the question of how long Lloyd C. Blankfein will remain atop Goldman Sachs, Reuters Breakingviews says that the current regulatory issues facing the bank do not look serious enough to topple the chief executive. It is the firm's financial performance, instead, that could pose the biggest problems for Mr. Blankfein.REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS 
Standard Chartered Holds On to Chinese Bank Stake | Standard Chartered, one of the cornerstone investors in the initial offering of Agricultural Bank of China, has no plans to reduce its stake when the lockup period expires this week, The South China Morning Post reported.REUTERS 
Banks May Be Facing a Fresh Wave of Losses | Big banks are making more money than thought, but they have written down very little of their second-lien mortgage loans, Gretchen Morgenson of The New York Times writes. As home values continue to drop in some areas, it seems fresh losses may be coming.NEW YORK TIMES 
Krugman: Letting the Bankers Off Easy | Why has United States financial policy, first with the Bush administration, and later with the Obama administration, been so soft on the bankers?
One factor is Wall Street's lobbying resources, Paul Krugman writes in his opinion column for The New York Times, but there is also a strong belief among officials that this light touch actually serves to strengthen the broader economy. It does not.NEW YORK TIMES 
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Bank of America Continues to Shed Private Equity Assets | In its latest move to unload private equity assets, Bank of America has put a $250 million portfolio of private equity investments up for sale, Dow Jones reports.DOW JONES 
Providence to Cut Fees for Investors | Providence Equity Partners is offering to charge a lower management fee for investors who commit $500 million or more in the second round of fund-raising for its new $6 billion fund, Dow Jones reports. The moves echoes reports that Bain Capital had cut fees for its new Asian funds.DOW JONES 
Interest in American Golf | The American Golf Corporation has attracted interest from a number of private equity firms, including a buyout arm of Bridgepoint Development Capital, The Independent reports. The company was put on the block by Lloyds Development Capital, with a reported price of about 80 million.INDEPENDENT 
HEDGE FUNDS 
Morgan Stanley's Brazil Chief to Create His Own Fund | Daniel Goldberg, the chief of Morgan Stanley's Brazil operations, is leaving the firm to start his own hedge fund, which will be partially backed by Farallon, according to press reports.BUSINESS INSIDER | REUTERS 
Man Group to Take on Lehman Exposure | The Man Group is set to buy the remaining exposure to the Lehman Brothers estates held by funds managed by a subsidiary, at a price of about $355 million. It will win or lose with any rise or fall in the net asset value of claims on the collapsed bank.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE 
Heads of Temasek Hedge Fund to Step Down | Charles Ong and Nasser Ahmad, the co-chiefs of Temasek's hedge fund Seatown Holdings, are leaving as part of a broader change in management, The Wall Street Journal reports.WALL STREET JOURNAL | BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Centerbridge Opposes Lehman Bankruptcy Plan | Centerbrige Partners said it did not believe that the Lehman Brothers $65 billion liquidation plan would win enough support from creditors to pass. In a court filing, the hedge fund said "that despite the purported consensus supporting the debtors' plan, Centerbridge -- and it believes numerous other creditors -- do not believe that the new plan is confirmable."BLOOMBERG NEWS | FINANCIAL TIMES 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
People's Insurance Company of China Weighs Big I.P.O. | The People's Insurance Company, a state-owned Chinese insurance giant, has its sights set on initial public offerings in Hong Kong and Shanghai to raise up to $6 billion. It has hired the China International Corporation, HSBC and Credit Suisse to advise on the deal, according to the Thomson Reuters publication IFR.REUTERS 
Bankia I.P.O. Price Trimmed | Bankia, a Spanish savings bank, has cut the price of its initial public offering to 3.75 euros a share from a range of 4.41 euros to 5.05 euros, which would now see the I.P.O. raise 3.1 billion euros, according to press reports.REUTERS | DOW JONES 
Outlook for Francesca's Holdings | The initial public offering of the women's clothing retailer Francesca's Holdings, which is expected to raise as much as $160 million, is the strongest I.P.O. contender in the American markets this week, The Wall Street Journal says.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Entrepreneurs of the Arab Spring | Six months after revolts in Egypt led to the ouster of Hosni Mubarak, a new business class is emerging in the country: young entrepreneurs seeking to take advantage of the change that began with the so-called Arab Spring.NEW YORK TIMES 
Frenemies, a Story of Twitter and Its App Makers | With both Twitter and the applications industry that feeds off of it growing at a rapid rate, the line between partner and competitor has become increasingly blurred.NEW YORK TIMES 
Will TechCrunch's Arrington Try on Wings? | Rumors are making the rounds that Michael Arrington, the founder of TechCrunch, is preparing to start his own angel fund, The Next Web reports.THE NEXT WEB 
BMW Venture Fund Invests in Parking Service | The BMW i Ventures fund is taking a minority stake in the British start-up Parkatmyhouse.com, which connects drivers with businesses and homeowners offering parking spaces.WHEELS 
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Law Surprise: News Corp.'s Hiring of Williams & Connolly | The move underscores the central role Joel I. Klein is playing in managing the News Corporation's mounting legal problems, and also highlights the void in legal leadership that currently exists at the company.DealBook 
Law Firms Profit From Global Merger Surge | As the deal flow accelerated in the first half of the year, law firms like Sullivan & Cromwell and Latham & Watkins have seen their revenues spike.WASHINGTON POST 
Regulators Bar Some Firms From Mortgage Investigations | Suspicions that certain law firms may ahve too close a relationship with the mortgage-servicing industry have led some regulators to refuse their assistance in foreclosure abuse investigations, The Wall Street Journal reported.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); LEASING INDUSTRY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); MERGERS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (70%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (69%); MINES & MINING (65%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (64%); OUTSOURCING (64%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (64%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (60%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (60%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (81%); DONLEN CORP (66%); GOOGLE INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (53%); AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (52%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); CM (TSX) (81%); CM (NYSE) (81%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (81%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (66%); SIC7513 TRUCK RENTAL & LEASING WITHOUT DRIVERS (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (91%); RICHARD CORDRAY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); SICHUAN, CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); AFRICA (76%); CHINA (72%); WESTERN AFRICA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



659 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Predictions

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times Top political leaders predicted Sunday that a budget agreement would be reached before the federal government defaults on its debt in August, Eric Lipton of The Times reports. However, both sides continued to squabble over the details of competing proposals, offering little evidence of an impending deal. Throughout the debate over federal spending, Congressional leaders in both parties have exchanged accusations that the opposing camp's proposals violated the laws of economics. In truth, those laws do not exist, Binyamin Appelbaum writes in an Economic Memo. Economists agree that federal borrowing must be reduced, but they do not agree about the proper mix of tax increases and spending cuts. The absence of a clear mainstream is one under-appreciated reason for the standoff between the Obama administration and Congressional Republicans over raising the federal debt limit before Aug. 2. More than a dozen governors in both parties said that states would have to adjust to what some are calling the "new normal": less federal aid. Governors are closely watching the debate in Washington as it increasingly centers on what further cuts they'll have to make, Michael Cooper writes in a Political Memo. An informal selection of voices from across the country found both pessimism and cynicism about the state of negotiations in Washington, Jesse McKinley of The Times reports. People interviewed on the subject expressed resignation with the partisan jousting and confusion about what would happen if the president and his Republican foes can't make a deal. 
Happenings Around Washington President Obama will host two rounds of guests for meetings at the White House on Monday. First he will meet with the billionaire benefactors Warren Buffet and Bill and Melinda Gates about the Giving Pledge, an effort to encourage very wealthy people to give away the majority of their wealth. Later Mr. Obama will host an education roundtable with the education secretary, Arne Duncan, and Gen. Colin L. Powell, the former secretary of state.

        
The Weekend Word: Fallbacks 
        
The Early Word: Sticking to Their Principles
        
The Early Word: Tension
        
The Early Word: Pessimism
        
The Early Word: Pressure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); TAX LAW (72%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); ARNE DUNCAN (53%); BILL GATES (50%); MELINDA GATES (50%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



660 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Boehner and Cantor Meet Again With Obama

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: The two top House Republicans met privately with President Obama on Sunday as the House prepared to vote on a deficit-cutting measure strongly opposed by the White House.

 BODY:
The two top House Republicans met privately with President Obama at the White House on Sunday as the House prepared to vote on a deficit-cutting measure strongly opposed by the White House. Officials said that Speaker John A. Boehner and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, who have clashed with each other as well as the president during the debt limit fight, traveled to the White House to keep talks going but emphasized that no agreement was reached that would sideline House consideration of conservative-backed legislation known as cut, cap and balance.
"As we said throughout the weekend, the lines of communications are being kept open," a spokesman for Mr. Boehner's office said. "There is nothing to report in terms of an agreement or progress. We believe cut, cap and balance represents the best path forward, and we are looking forward to the House vote on it tomorrow." 
The previously undisclosed meeting was first reported by Politico.
With the House heading for the politically charged vote on Tuesday, the White House on Monday threatened to veto the Republican plan.
"The bill would undercut the federal government's ability to meet its core commitments to seniors, middle-class families and the most vulnerable, while reducing our ability to invest in our future," the White House said in a policy statement. It said the measure "would set unrealistic spending caps that could result in significant cuts to education, research and development, and other programs critical to growing our economy and winning the future.
"It could also lead to severe cuts in Medicare and Social Security, which are growing to accommodate the retirement of the baby boomers, and put at risk the retirement security for tens of millions of Americans,'' the statement said.
The majority leader in the Senate, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said Monday that the Senate would stay in session until an agreement was reached to raise the federal debt ceiling and avoid default. 
"The Senate has no more important task than making sure the United States does not fail to pay our bills for pre-existing obligations like Social Security for the first time in our history," he said in a statement. "To ensure that we meet this responsibility, the Senate will stay in session every day, including Saturdays and Sundays, from now until Congress passes legislation that prevents the United States from defaulting on our obligations."
Mr. Boehner had two previous private meetings with the president, and both of those sessions caused unrest among fellow House Republicans who worried that the speaker was going to strike a compromise that many of them would have trouble supporting.
Though the two House leaders were at the White House, no formal meeting of the group of bipartisan Congressional leaders that has been hashing out the debt fight with the president was held over the weekend and attention turned to the House and Senate floor this week. Besides the House vote, the Senate could vote on a balanced budget amendment as early as Wednesday.

        
Congressional Week Ahead: Debt Limit Votes
        
House Republicans Plan Vote on Deficit
        
Obama Reiterates Desire for Comprehensive Budget Package
        
A Debt Ceiling Cheat Sheet: 8 Possible Plans
        
What Happened Between Cantor and Obama?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MEDICARE (71%); FAMILY (66%); BABY BOOMERS (64%) debt ceiling negotiations; Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Obama, Barack; National Debt (US); United States Politics and Government; Congress; The 44th President; The White House

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN BOEHNER (91%); ERIC CANTOR (90%); HARRY REID (58%) Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



661 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street's Newest Regulator a Longtime Foe

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Richard Cordray, President Obama's pick to lead the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has a history of bringing cases against Wall Street.

 BODY:
Richard Cordray, President Obama's pick to lead the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, is no stranger to Wall Street.
As Ohio's attorney general during the fallout from the financial crisis, Mr. Cordray undertook a series of prominent lawsuits against big names in the finance world. And in late 2010, after narrowly losing re-election, he came to Washington to spearhead the bureau's enforcement efforts.
 Wall Street was largely silent about the news on Sunday, with few financial trade groups willing to say anything much publicly about the nominee. 
"We look forward to a productive opportunity to engage with the new leadership of the C.F.P.B.," said David H. Stevens, president and chief executive of the Mortgage Bankers Association.
But behind closed doors, some industry officials questioned whether life under Mr. Cordray would be any easier than if Mr. Obama had tapped the consumer advocate Elizabeth Warren to lead the bureau. While Ms. Warren conducted a lengthy charm campaign that led her to meet with bankers from every state and subdue some criticism, Mr. Cordray has been deciding which types of enforcement cases to pursue against the industry. 
Here is a look at some of the most prominent cases that made Mr. Cordray, as Ohio's attorney general, the Midwestern sheriff of Wall Street.
CREDIT RATING AGENCIES
While federal officials issued reports chiding the nation's top credit rating agencies, Mr. Cordray took them to court. He sued the firms, alleging that they not only awarded top grades to troubled mortgage-backed securities but that they also were "intimately involved in structuring" the investments. The products, according to Mr. Cordray, caused retirement funds for police officers and teachers to lose hundreds of millions of dollars.
"The rating agencies' total disregard for the life's work of ordinary Ohioans caused the collapse of our housing and credit markets and is at the heart of what's wrong with Wall Street today," he said at the time.
Status: Pending
GMAC
Last fall, Mr. Cordray became one of the first attorneys general to take action in the nationwide investigation of wrongful foreclosures. His target: GMAC Mortgage, the home lending unit of General Motors, a unit of the renamed Ally Financial.
"It's now becoming clear that fraud, deception and an utter disregard for accuracy are in part to blame for the national foreclosure disaster," Mr. Cordray said at the time.
Status: Pending
A.I.G.
One of Mr. Cordray's biggest wins came against the American International Group and its former top executives, whom he accused of accounting fraud. He secured a settlement of about $700 million from the giant insurer and a $115 million deal with its former chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg.
Status: Settled
BANK OF AMERICA AND MERRILL LYNCH 
in 2009, Mr. Cordray led a multistate lawsuit against Bank of America concerning its takeover of Merrill Lynch. Mr. Cordray accused the bank of fraudulently concealing Merrill Lynch's huge losses around the time of the takeover.
"The amount of shareholder value affected here, negatively, is about as great as has been alleged in any case, ever," Mr. Cordray said at the time.
Status: Pending

        
Director or No, Wall Street's Newest Cop Is Ready for Duty
        
Consumer Watchdog Takes Aim at 'Abusive' Lending

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (88%); FORECLOSURE (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SHERIFFS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); ACCOUNTING (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%) AIG; Bank of America-Merrill Lynch; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Credit Rating Agencies; Elizabeth Warren; GMAC Mortgage; Maurice R. Greenberg; Richard Cordray; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (73%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (93%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (73%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (73%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



662 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Public Gives Obama the Edge on Debt Talks

BYLINE: MEGAN THEE-BRENAN


HIGHLIGHT: While Americans are closely divided over whether the debt ceiling should be raised, the public gives President Obama higher marks than Congressional Republicans for his handling of the negotiations.

 BODY:
While Americans are closely divided over whether the debt ceiling should be raised, the public gives President Obama higher marks than Congressional Republicans for his handling of the negotiations, according to the latest CBS News poll.
The number of Americans who say the debt ceiling should be raised has increased from 24 percent last month to 46 percent this month, the poll found. Currently, 49 percent say it should not be raised, down from 69 percent in June. Majorities of Democrats and those who are following the debate very closely support raising the ceiling.
Two-thirds of all Americans want an agreement to contain both spending cuts and tax increases, including majorities across party lines, and most would prefer that lawmakers reach an agreement, even if it's one respondents do not fully support, rather than have the United States default.
Americans are increasingly convinced that a severe downturn in the economy will result if the debt ceiling isn't raised. Yet they are skeptical that the United States will actually default on its debt if a deal isn't reached. A slim majority of Americans -- 51 percent, including majorities of Republicans and independents -- say the United States probably will not default in the absence of a deal. 
There is no consensus on whether the Obama administration is accurately describing the consequences that could result from failing to raise the ceiling, with roughly an equal number saying Mr. Obama and his surrogates are making things sound worse than they and saying the administration is describing the situation accurately.
Despite their doubts, the public's faith in the president is stronger than in those he is negotiating with. Six in 10 Americans say Mr. Obama is really trying to find a solution, which is roughly the same number who say Republicans are not. Additionally, 49 percent of those polled blame Congressional Republicans for the budget standoff, while 29 percent blame the president.
Over all, 43 percent of Americans approve of President Obama's handling of the debt ceiling negotiations, but just half as many (21 percent) approve of Congressional Republicans, and 31 percent approve of Congressional Democrats.
As is typically the case in most debates between the president and Congress, the survey found taht most Americans would like to see compromise from all parties involved.
The public remains optimistic with a broad majority expecting an agreement by the Aug. 2 deadline.
The nationwide telephone survey was conducted Friday to Sunday with 810 adults, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.

        
Six Republicans Named to Deficit Panel
        
Ads Attack Republicans on Debt Ceiling
        
'Gang of Six' Re-Emerges With New Budget Plan
        
Boehner and Cantor Meet Again With Obama
        
Congressional Week Ahead: Debt Limit Votes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); TAX LAW (73%); CALENDARS (72%) debt ceiling negotiations; Obama, Barack; National Debt (US); Republican Party; Polling

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011



663 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: How the Budget War Was Framed

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Why hasn't more attention been paid to progressive proposals to balance the federal budget, an economist asks. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
Political strategists often refer to "framing" as the way in which the edges of an argument define perceptions of its core. The term also has an older, sharper meaning that implies miscarriage of justice - as in "he was framed." 
In the debate over the budget deficit and debt ceiling, the American people have been framed in both senses of the term. They have been given a misleading picture of the possibilities, and they have taken the blame for unrealistic attitudes. Nominally, the budget debate focuses on spending cuts versus tax increases, with Republicans in one corner and Democrats in the other. What I see is a three-way tussle among the rich, the not very rich and the not rich at all over who should pay the costs of balancing the budget.
On this issue, differences among Democrats run deeper than those between the major players getting most of the press: President Obama and Speaker of the House John Boehner.Consider a largely invisible proposal for balancing the budget, the People's Budget, released in April by the Congressional Progressive Caucus, which includes 83 members of Congress.
Its proposed budget savings include major cuts to military spending based on immediate withdrawal from Iraq and Afghanistan. Its proposed revenue sources include new tax brackets for the rich (from 45 percent on income over a million dollars a year to 49 percent on income over a billion a year), restoring the estate tax and eliminating the Bush tax cuts. 
The Economic Policy Institute provides a more detailed supportive analysis. Proponents have also developed a three-way comparison with budget proposals advocated by President Obama and Congressional Republicans that allows you to register your own preference. 
Deficit hawks (at least those who are not tax chickens) should welcome the People's Budget, because it offers a plausible path to debt reduction.
Matt Miller of The Washington Post noted that the People's Budget would, unlike the Roadmap for America's Future advanced by Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee, generate a budget surplus at a predictable point in the future, winning the "fiscal responsibility derby." 
Paul Krugman, who praised the People's Budget in The New York Times, observed that it stood little chance of being passed, but that the same was true of Mr. Ryan's proposed budget. 
Serious consideration of the People's Budget in April could have reframed the budget debate by counterbalancing the rightward thrust of the Republican proposals. Serious consideration of it today would make President Obama's focus on closing tax loopholes for wealthy individuals and corporations seem faint-hearted, at best. 
The progressive tax policies endorsed by the People's Budget have drawn remarkably strong support in public opinion polls, suggesting that the views of our most powerful elected officials don't accurately reflect the views of the electorate.
An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll in late February found that 81 percent of people would support a surtax on millionaires to help reduce the budget deficit. A Pew Research Center poll in late May found that 66 percent favored raising income tax rates on those making more than $250,000 and 67 percent raising the wage cap for Social Security taxes. 
So why hasn't a budget proposal that features more progressive taxes had a stronger, more visible impact on the national debate? 
Poor press coverage is one explanation. Dave Moberg of In These Times asserted, "The corporate media give progressive alternatives short shrift, even though opinion polls show the public often supports such measures." Peter Hart of the media watchdog group Fairness and Accuracy in Reportingmade the more specific assertion that media coverage of the People's Budget has been confined to opinion pieces, with no "hard news stories about it in the big papers." 
What about The New York Times, often characterized by some of its critics as having a liberal bias? 
On July 14, I searched for the phrase "People's Budget" on The Times's Web site for occurrences over the last 12 months. I found the mention by Mr. Krugman, two readers' comments on a previous post of his and a link on the Green blog to a brief derogatory comment in The Atlantic blog. 
In short, "no hard news stories" about it (unless they omitted the proposal's title). On the other hand, Representative Ryan's Roadmap for America's Future was mentioned more than a dozen times, though, of course, it has been in play longer. The most prominent articles focused on Mr. Ryan and his general philosophy rather than on the budget itself. 
Maybe that's the problem: the budget debate seems to elicit less hard news analysis than political framing and reframing. 
And there's no way that people can frame the People's Budget if they haven't even heard of it.

        
Unemployment? Who Cares?
        
The Bicycle Dividend
        
Born to Lose: Health Inequality at Birth
        
Will Business Buy In to Early Childhood Education?
        
How to Cut Child Poverty in Half

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (99%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); DEBT CEILING (76%); ESTATE TAX (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%) Nancy Folbre; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Federal Budget (US); Congressional Progressive Caucus; House of Representatives; People's Budget; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%) Congressional Progressive Caucus; House of Representatives

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); PAUL KRUGMAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%) Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



664 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: 24 Small Towns May Lose Air Service

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
Rural America, already struggling to recover from the recession and the flight of its young people, is about to take another blow: the loss of its airline service.
That was underscored last week when Delta Air Lines announced that it ''can no longer afford'' to continue service at 24 small airports. The carrier says it is losing a total of $14 million a year on flights from places like Thief River Falls, a city of 8,600 in northwest Minnesota that fills only 12 percent of the seats, or Pierre, the capital of South Dakota, where Delta's two daily flights are on average less than half full.
Nationally, all major airlines have been reducing and sometimes eliminating flights altogether in small cities, as the industry concentrates much of its service in 29 major hubs, which now account for 70 percent of all passenger traffic, according to the Federal Aviation Administration.
Delta's announcement was especially acute because the airline operates in most of the small airports that receive a total of almost $200 million in federal subsidies to maintain air service under the Essential Air Service program. The subsidies are scheduled to expire in 2013 unless revived by Congress. Delta acquired many of those small-city markets in the Midwest when it merged with Northwest Airlines. 
Airlines say that simple economics are driving them out of small-town America. With fuel prices high, carriers have been reducing domestic routes and seating capacity to focus on the flights that bring in the most revenue per plane -- typically those in larger cities, especially major hubs. At the same time, airlines are removing less fuel-efficient aircraft from their fleets, including the 50-seat regional jets that have been the backbone of air service in small- and midsize markets.
''We just don't have airplanes that can serve small communities economically anymore,'' said Michael Boyd, the president of the air-service consulting firm Boyd Group International. ''And unless somebody wants to pay a whole lot of money to carry a few people out of the airport at Thief River Falls, it just ain't going to happen anymore for a lot of those places.''
One of those places, it appears, is Muscle Shoals, a town of about 13,000 along the Tennessee River in northwest Alabama. About $1.7 million a year in federal subsidies maintains two Delta flights a day from Northwest Alabama Regional Airport in Muscle Shoals, one of the 24 airports Delta wants to stop serving unless it can receive larger subsidies. Those flights are operated under the Delta name on Saab A340 turboprops flown by Mesaba Airlines, a Delta subcontractor.
Barry Auchly, of the Shoals Chamber of Commerce, said that the airport has enough market vitality to justify keeping commercial service. However, he said, passengers have fallen off since Delta decided this summer to redirect its two daily departures to Memphis, rather than to Delta's global hub in Atlanta where the flights went last year.
Delta says its flights from the airport are an average of 35.7 percent full, which compares with the national average on Delta's domestic flights of 81.9 percent in June.
''Last year, the first year with the Atlanta service, we exceeded 8,500 passengers and were well on our way to 10,000,'' said Mr. Auchly. That growth proved, he said, that the local airport could eventually operate without federal air-service subsidies. He said Delta told him the destinations were switched because Memphis, though far less in demand, had more efficient turboprop service facilities than Atlanta.
''We want to be a self-sustaining airport,'' Mr. Auchly said. ''We think we have the demand; we just need to be able to depend on consistent service.''
Delta would like to continue flying from some of the 24 airports it designated last Friday as ''underperforming'' -- but only if the federal subsidies were increased to cover the additional costs of serving them with regional jets. Meanwhile, Delta said it plans to abandon other airports where load factors were deemed too low, and assist those airports in finding replacement carriers.
Replacing a 34-seat turboprop plane with a 50-seat regional jet would seem to be counterintuitive in markets where the problem is too few passengers. Kristin Baur, a Delta spokeswoman, acknowledged that 50-seat regional jets, besides having 16 more seats, also are less fuel-efficient.
However, she said, regional jets are more popular with passengers, and can increase overall bookings in some markets where people will drive to more distant airports rather than fly a turboprop from the local airport.
Officials at some of the 24 small airports slated to lose Delta service said the airline has not flatly told them when it is stopping the flights, though at subsidized airports Delta said it would withdraw when the current contracts expired.
In some markets, depending on load factors, Delta would like to either receive new Essential Air Service contracts or get more money for the ones it currently has. Slightly more than a third of the airports Delta identified on its list would be in that group, it said.
Pierre, a scrappy city of 14,000 that sits smack in the rural center of South Dakota, got the news that it might lose Delta service just as weary residents were hauling away the last soggy sandbags as they recovered from major flooding of the Missouri River in May.
After years of receiving federal air-service subsidies, the airport now has four unsubsidized departures a day -- two by the Delta subcontractor Mesaba and two by the regional carrier Great Lakes Airlines.
The city was recently so optimistic about its prospects that it began construction on a $12 million passenger terminal at Pierre Regional Airport.
''We're rural America,'' said Laurie Gill, the mayor. ''It's hard for me to understand a business decision to eliminate commercial air service based on the growth that we've seen here.''
Delta flew 4,840 of the total 6,833 passengers who boarded flights at Pierre this year through June, and Delta's planes left with 47.4 percent of the seats filled on average. If Delta leaves and no other airline comes in, most travelers from the South Dakota capital would have to drive to the closest bigger airport in Rapid City, 140 miles away. Time-constrained corporate and government travelers dislike that idea, Ms. Gill said.
Welcome to the tough new world of commercial air travel, said Mr. Boyd, who thinks the Essential Air Service program serves a vital need for those communities that are far from an alternate airport with better service.
''It's not like people are going to get cut off from the world. You may be able to have your local air service, but maybe it's an hour's drive away,'' he said.
For example, Muskegon, in western Michigan, has a few daily flights operated by United Airlines, subsidized with $600,000 a year from the Essential Air Service program. Meanwhile, the Gerald R. Ford International Airport in Grand Rapids, 40 miles away, had two million passengers last year, and is served by eight airlines.
The savings from the short drive can be substantial. On Monday, for example, the lowest round-trip fare on a United flight to Kennedy Airport in New York from Muskegon, connecting through Chicago, was listed at $1,149. Drive to Grand Rapids, though, and you could find a flight to Kennedy for as little as $600 on various airlines.
''Muskegon has great air service,'' Mr. Boyd said. ''It's called Grand Rapids.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Delta Air Lines wants to cease its two flights a day serving Muscle Shoals, a town of 13,000 in Alabama. (B1)
 Two Delta flights a day from the airport in Muscle Shoals, Ala., are backed by about $1.7 million a year in federal subsidies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT RAUSCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) MAP: Delta Plans Service Cuts: Delta Air Lines plans to eliminate flights to 24 small airports in the Midwest and South. Although Delta receives federal subsidies for service to 16 of the affected cities, the airline says it cannot afford to continue flying to them. (Source: Delta Air Lines) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); AIRPORTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PIERRE, SD, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



665 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Markets Stumble on Debt and Deficit Worries

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH and CHRISTINE HAUSER; Matthew Saltmarsh reported from London and Christine Hauser reported from New York.

 BODY:
Investors on Monday remained nervous about stress tests on European banks as well as the debt-ceiling talks in Washington, leading to a sell-off in stocks.
Financial stocks led Wall Street lower on Monday and European stocks fell more than 1 percent.
In Europe, on the first day of trading after the publication of the stress tests late Friday, the euro weakened and the bond yields of indebted nations climbed as investors worried about the degree of political will to overcome the region's debt crisis. 
The euro weakened to $1.4109 from $1.415 late Friday. The market worries came at the start of an important week for the European Union as its leaders try to stem full-blown market contagion.
The leaders will hold a special summit meeting Thursday, but there appears to be no agreement yet over the terms of a second bailout for Greece, especially on the nature of a private sector contribution.
The lack of clarity along with recent investor sales of Italian and Spanish bonds have led analysts to become increasingly pessimistic.
''The euro zone crisis has recently worsened significantly, exacerbated by disagreements between the E.U.'s key politicians,'' said Ruth Lea, an economic adviser to the Arbuthnot Banking Group in London. ''It is becoming increasingly clear that there will have to be major steps towards fiscal union or the euro zone will begin to disintegrate.''
Investors also remained wary about events in the United States, where President Obama is trying to get lawmakers to agree to a deficit-reducing package before an Aug. 2 deadline for increasing the debt ceiling.
''People are very concerned about the length of the process in the debt-ceiling debate,'' said Russell Price, a senior economist with Ameriprise Financial, adding that there were also concerns about contagion in the euro zone debt crisis.
On Wall Street, financial shares, which fell more than 1.3 percent, led the broader market down. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 94.57 points, or 0.76 percent, to 12,385.16.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 10.70 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,305.44, and the Nasdaq composite index was down 24.69 points, or 0.89 percent, to 2,765.11.
Bond prices were also down. The Treasury's 10-year note declined 6/32, to 101 21/32. The yield rose to 2.93 percent, from 2.91 percent late Friday.
In the United States, the News Corporation, which is in the midst of a deepening scandal, fell more than 4 percent, to $14.97. Banks fell, with Citigroup down 1.67 percent, to $37.74, and Bank of America down 2.8 percent, to $9.72. But some analysts said that Europe was the main driver of the down market. Some relatively positive corporate earnings, however, helped offset the negative sentiment in the United States.
''I think it is kind of a tug of war,'' said James W. Paulsen, the chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management. ''You look at Europe, and then we are in the midst of a pretty good earnings seasons.''
But analysts also noted a flight to precious metals, including gold, as the reverberations from Europe and the debt talks were gauged against the bigger picture of an uneven economic recovery.
The price of gold for September delivery rose above $1,600 an ounce, as investors sought safer assets. And crude oil rose $1.35 a barrel, to $96.25.
Economists for Goldman Sachs reported after the market closed on Friday that they were cutting their outlook for real United States economic growth in the near term, to 1.5 percent in the second quarter from 2 percent, and to 2.5 percent in the third quarter from 3.25 percent.
In Europe,
further clouding the picture were the stress tests on the region's banks carried out by regulators. Of the 90 banks tested, eight failed, with an aggregate capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros. But the exercise left unanswered many questions about how many healthier lenders would survive a deepening of the debt crisis, given their exposure to Greek, Italian and Spanish bonds. A sovereign default case was excluded from the tests.
The Euro Stoxx 50, a benchmark index of blue-chip stocks in the region, closed down 1.98 percent on Monday, and the CAC 40 in Paris lost 2.04 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BONDS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); DEBT NOTES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); POLITICS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (65%); NEWS CORP (61%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ARBUTHNOT BANKING GROUP PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (65%); NWS (NASDAQ) (61%); NWS (ASX) (61%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); ARBB (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (61%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



666 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: China's Treasury Holdings Make U.S. Woes Its Own

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Xu Yan contributed research.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- However grim Washington's debt and deficit negotiations may seem to Americans, the impasse is nearly as disturbing for China.
As the United States' biggest foreign creditor -- holding an estimated $1.5 trillion in American government debt -- China has been a vocal critic of what it considers Washington's politicized profligacy.
''We hope that the U.S. government adopts responsible policies and measures to guarantee the interests of investors,'' Hong Lei, a foreign ministry spokesman, said at a news conference late last week.
Beijing might prefer to respond by starting to dump some of its American debt. But in this financial version of the cold war, analysts say, both sides fear mutually assured destruction. 
One reason the United States would want to avoid defaulting on its debt is that such a move could alienate China, which is a steady purchaser of Treasury bonds. Beijing, meanwhile, already has too much invested in American debt to do much more but continue to buy, hold and grumble.
It is the ultimate ''too big to fail'' global relationship, said Andy Rothman, an analyst in Shanghai for the investment bank CLSA.
If Beijing even hinted that it might try to sell part of its American debt, ''other countries might sell their dollar assets,'' Mr. Rothman said, noting that this would drive down the value of China's holdings. ''It would be financial suicide for China.''
China got into this situation, experts say, by indulging its own economic interests. To bolster what has become the world's largest export economy, China has focused on policies that encourage domestic savings and hold down the value of its currency. The result: huge trade and current-account surpluses. China has accumulated more than $3 trillion in foreign currency reserves, far more than any other nation.
Most of those reserves are held in dollars, and recycled back to the United States through investments in Treasury bonds and other dollar-denominated securities -- even stocks. And while some of China's foreign exchange reserves are plowed into European and Japanese debt, those bond markets are not big or liquid enough to absorb the bulk of China's ever-larger foreign holdings.
Beijing has tried to diversify its foreign exchange portfolio by creating a sovereign wealth fund that can invest some of the reserves overseas. The government has also encouraged Chinese companies to expand overseas and to acquire mines and natural resources to fuel China's hungry economy. But because China has too much foreign money for any other outlet to absorb, the vast majority of its fast-growing reserves continue to be destined for the United States bond market.
''China has no choice but to keep buying,'' said Zhang Ming, an expert at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a Beijing research group. ''After all, U.S. Treasury bonds are still the largest and most liquid investment product in the world.''
All of which has helped enable America's own fiscally dubious habits.
The United States' huge deficits -- not only in government spending, but in trade and savings as well -- have weakened its economy and strangled consumption. Many economists say that would poison the long-term prospects for the dollar, if it were not still the world's reserve currency and most reliable safe haven.
Helping maintain that role for the dollar are the staggering debt problems that Europe and Japan are struggling with. With global investors like China having few good options besides United States Treasuries, Washington, despite its current debt-ceiling debacle, can continue to hold down interest rates and wallow in cheap borrowing.
Beijing in recent years has frequently fretted aloud about Washington's monetary policies. In 2009, shortly after the global financial crisis broke out, China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, said his country was ''worried'' about the safety of its huge cache of United States Treasury holdings. Last year Chinese policy advisers criticized the Federal Reserve for undermining the value of holdings by ''printing too much money'' with its so-called quantitative easing policies.
But even now, despite Beijing's scolding about the debt impasse in Washington, China's options may be limited.
''There's really nothing different they can do,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a Cornell economics professor and former head of the China division at the International Monetary Fund. ''Even if China felt the United States was going off a cliff, there's no other place for them to put their money.''
Over the long run, many economists say the structural imbalances on both sides of the Chinese-American debt symbiosis could be disastrous. Already, for example, many say that those dynamics helped create the global financial crisis by artificially creating the low interest rates that let housing prices reach bubble-bursting levels.
Now, the United States and China are trying in their different ways to adjust. American policy makers are urging more savings and less consumption. Chinese officials take the opposite tack, promising to encourage more consumption and less saving.
But neither country has made significant headway on these strategies during the last two years. Both sides see these fixes as too costly and detrimental to nearer-term economic goals. America is focused on reviving its economy, while China is intent on cooling its down. And in both countries, achieving the goals involves changing public behavior, which is never easy.
Many economists say China could curb its dependence on dollar-pegged assets by letting the value of its currency rise faster against other world currencies. That would also make its imports less expensive for domestic consumers. But it would also make China's exports more expensive for global customers, which could hurt Chinese factories and lead to widespread layoffs.
For all that, if China worries about holding too many dollar-denominated assets, which could depreciate over time as the value of its own currency rises, why does it not quietly sell some of them -- or at least stop buying more?
Recent United States government surveys have suggested that China began doing just that, beginning to slow its purchases of American debt earlier this year. But analysts warn that those official figures may not be accounting for purchases made through third-party countries on China's behalf. An intermediary buying American bonds in London at the behest of the Bank of China would not show up in Washington's tallies.
Many economists, in fact, say they believe China may have actually stepped up its buying of American debt. The evidence is that its trade and current-account surpluses almost certainly mean that it has continued to accumulate huge holdings of dollars.
How might the Beijing-Washington debt standoff be resolved? Mainly, the Americans hope China will ramp up its domestic consumption and perhaps make even more direct investments in the United States. The Chinese, meantime, hope the United States will deal with its huge debt problems and maintain the value of the dollar -- and with it the value of China's dollar-based holdings.
For all the stresses in both directions, the fiscal cold war means ''China is increasingly integrated with the future of the U.S.,'' said Mr. Rothman, the Shanghai analyst. ''But that could be a good thing, for both sides.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A container crane in eastern China. Buying Treasuries has bolstered China's export economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WU HONG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4) CHARTS: Holding U.S. Debt: China, including Hong Kong, holds at least $1.3 trillion in United States Treasury debt alone -- and more including other federal agency debt. (Source: Treasury Dept.) (B1)
 America's Foreign Creditors: Almost a third of United States Treasury debt -- $4.51 trillion out of a total of $14.29 trillion -- is held in foreign countries, with China as the largest creditor. Sovereign nations as well as overseas financial firms own the debt. (Source: Department of the Treasury) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (75%); BOND MARKETS (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (50%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (91%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



667 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Fish Tanks Function As New Town Squares

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
At some point every day, Amanda Beck's 11-month-old daughter, Emmy, says, ''Bah,'' to her. ''It means she wants to see the fish,'' Ms. Beck said one afternoon last week, holding Emmy up to the double-sided glass tank set into a wall in the lobby of Riverhouse, a luxury condominium building in Battery Park City.
''Bah,'' Emmy said, a signal for her mother to turn her back around to the tank so she could see the red squirrelfish, hippo and unicorn tangs, queen angel and lion fish swimming placidly against a view of the promenade, the Hudson River and a New Jersey high-rise behind it. ''It's her favorite thing. They're fantastic.'' 
The fish tanks at Riverhouse -- there is another in a second lobby -- were part of the overall concept of the designer David Rockwell, who wanted to bring the river inside with nautical nods like wavy aluminum blades lining the walls and abstracted whale-shaped benches. But the tanks, along with those at 1 Rector Park and at the Visionaire, are draws for the youngest residents of Battery Park City, which has become something of a suburban-style destination for the stroller set. Half of all the families in Lower Manhattan live in Battery Park City, according to a 2009 survey by the Downtown Alliance, an economic development group.
''We've found that the majority of the residents here and the majority of the people who look to purchase here are families or are planning families,'' said John Tashjian, a principal at Centurion Real Estate Partners, which took over the Riverhouse in Battery Park City last year after conflicts between the original sponsors. ''Children come through here throughout the day, and they're drawn to this amenity.''
In recent years, gigantic in-home custom fish tanks, which frequently cost well into the five figures, have become important status symbols for certain wealthy New Yorkers. But the migration of fish into the apartment building lobby reflects both a desire to cater to the interests of children in increasingly family-oriented areas like Battery Park City and a belief that the lobby should be a communal destination for residents, rather than a place where neighbors simply pass one another by.
''It's very much a focal point,'' said Michael Gubbins, vice president for residential management at the Albanese Organization, which developed the Visionaire and its 600-gallon, 12-foot-long live coral display. ''We actually put a bench by the aquarium so that people would meet and greet and sit there sometimes.''
The initial costs of these large tanks are high, from $75,000 to more than $100,000, said Nathan Kamelhar, a partner and founder at Okeanos Aquascaping. It designed and installed two tanks at 1 Rector Park when the building, which began as a rental in 1985, was converted to condominiums and underwent an extensive renovation to create fewer, larger apartments, many with additional bedrooms.
A large, live coral saltwater tank like the one in that lobby is more expensive than, say a fish-only tank, Mr. Kamelhar said, but it is the size that makes the biggest difference. Above a certain size, tanks require three-quarter-inch-thick glass to withstand the water pressure; it is almost double the price of the more typical half-inch-thick glass.
But developers say the large tanks are well worth such expenses because residents find them to be unusual and captivating amenities, whose maintenance, about $1,000 a month, is roughly equivalent to what a luxury building might spend on, say, flowers in the lobby.
Mr. Kamelhar said he had noticed an increased interest in fish tanks for residential lobbies, calling the tanks a good way for building owners to signal to potential buyers and residents that they were not skimping on services.
''People spend $30,000 on a trip to go diving and see the most exotic things, and here you can have some of that right in your lobby,'' he said. ''It's considered a luxury item. It's a way of saying: 'We're trying to make you happy. We're trying to make you relax.' ''
It seems to be working. The Visionaire, an eco-friendly building with a LEED rating of platinum, frequently hosts visiting students -- from elementary schools to graduate schools -- interested in the building's ''green'' design. And it is the see-through tank, Mr. Gubbins said, that has captured the imaginations of children and adults alike. ''People see the living coral aquarium and they go right to it,'' he said.
Over at 1 Rector Park, one tank, which sits opposite the elevators, is also a favorite. Before the sales team moved its office upstairs, said Paula Burchill, director of sales, members would come out and just stand there. ''We have actually picked out the ones that we think are dating,'' she said.
A resident, Sunita Iyer, said her 7-year-old son, Rohin, loved the fish so much that they had to leave the house a few minutes early each day so he could gaze at them, sometimes looking for the plum-colored serpent starfish. He celebrated his birthday in the building with about 20 other children, who all gathered around the fish.
''That was a magnet,'' Ms. Iyer said. ''We had to pull them to the party.''
Rohin was not too impressed, however, by the clown fish -- now familiar as Nemo. And the hippo tang, a former favorite, had fallen out of favor. ''Now I don't have a favorite,'' he concluded.
He has always been interested in fish, so he was thrilled to have the tank in the lobby, his mother said. When they moved in, one of his early reactions was this: ''We don't have to go to Coney Island that much anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An aquarium in the lobby of Riverhouse, above, in Battery Park City. Rohin Iyer, 7, is fascinated by the fish in his building, 1 Rector Park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); FISHES (89%); CHILDREN (86%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); SUBURBS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



668 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Think About End-of-Life Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his July 15 column, ''Death and Budgets,'' David Brooks assures us that ''we are never coercively going to give up on the old and ailing,'' but then argues that ''it is hard to see us reducing health care inflation seriously unless people and their families are willing to ... confront death and their obligations to the living.'' Coercion comes in many forms. Creating an atmosphere in which the ''old and ailing'' are persuaded that their ''obligations to the living'' require them to hasten their own ends to avoid becoming a burden to their families and to society at large may not be the ugliest imaginable form of coercion, but coercion it surely is.
The best argument against what proponents of physician-assisted suicide call the ''right to die'' is the ease with which the right to die can be transmuted into the duty to die. 
DOUGLAS ARONIN Forest Hills, Queens, July 17, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks cites Dudley Clendinen's desire to die before he is severely disabled by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (''The Good Short Life,'' Sunday Review, July 10). Mr. Brooks writes, ''Life is not just breathing and existing as a self-enclosed skin bag.''
Without disputing Mr. Clendinen's right to determine what constitutes his own meaningful life (or Mr. Brooks's larger point that we need to do some tough thinking about medical spending), it must be said that even the severely disabled are not ''self-enclosed skin bags.'' The obvious example is the physicist Stephen Hawking, who has thrived with severe disabilities from A.L.S.
But there are also those who are cognitively disabled, who cannot walk or talk, yet can indeed love and learn and feel human connections, and who have a meaningful life and dignity.
ELIZABETH PICCIUTO Silver Spring, Md., July 15, 2011
To the Editor:
The reviled and misunderstood Dr. Jack Kevorkian fought for our right to self-determination in death. We need more personal control and less legal obstructionism with end-of-life decisions. This will happen only with a cultural shift, and the acquiescence of people who impose their religious beliefs on the rest of society.
I have advanced multiple sclerosis but have adapted well to life in a wheelchair and a variety of indignities. I love life and hope to live for many more years. However, I want the ability to write a medical directive for euthanasia if I cannot recognize family and friends, or to choose assisted suicide if my quality of life is intolerably poor. Nobody should be prosecuted for assisting me, nor should patients be forced to die alone by suicide.
TOM SMITH Morrison, Colo., July 17, 2011
To the Editor:
A cultural shift in attitudes on end-of-life treatment would not only help us financially but also help us accept natural death for the terminally ill, with all palliative care measures employed, as opposed to taking ''extraordinary means'' to slightly prolong life.
Successfully promoting such a new cultural consensus would require making it clear that the terminally ill (or their health care proxies) remain free to choose or decline such treatment measures. This is not a promotion of assisted suicide. Proposals entailing coercion or actively ending a person's life would be unacceptable to many, including me.
(Rev.) ROBERT J. O'DONNELL Minneapolis, July 15, 2011
To the Editor:
Yes, death is part of life, and the lack of such acceptance contributes to medical care costs, as David Brooks argues. But structural as well as individual changes are necessary. Mr. Brooks needs to convince his conservative friends that reimbursing doctors for inviting conversations about end-of-life care doesn't mean establishing ''death panels'' or even more graphically ''killing Granny.''
Advance care planning lets people limit the treatments that they will receive, which is not easy in today's medical culture. The pressures to treat are great: families want to do what is ''right'' for their elder relatives, doctors want to cure and hospitals need the revenue streams that come from treatment. Mr. Brooks, as a respected conservative pundit, needs to take Republicans to task and convince them that their opposition to structural reform, their rhetoric about ''death panels'' or hysteria about ''rationing'' simply perpetuate the very conditions that make it so hard for people to accept death.
MARTHA HOLSTEIN Chicago, July 18, 2011
The writer works on long-term care policy at the Health and Medicine Policy Research Group and teaches health care ethics at Loyola University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATH & DYING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); LIVING WILLS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (89%); SUICIDE (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (66%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (50%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (70%); MARYLAND, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



669 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 837 words

PERSON: Magnus Malan 

HEADLINE: Magnus Malan, Apartheid Defender, Dies at 81

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Magnus Malan, a South African general and defense minister who in the 1980s helped devise and carry out his nation's last-ditch strategy to preserve its system of rigid racial segregation, including ordering raids into surrounding countries, died on Monday in Cape Town. He was 81.
A family spokesman said the cause was heart failure, The South African Press Association reported. 
General Malan used the phrase ''total onslaught'' to describe the threats to apartheid, as the country's racial laws were known. He saw those threats coming from Communists, neighboring African countries and liberals in the United States. His answer was ''a total strategy,'' combining elements of the political, economic and psychological spheres as well as the military.
He approved counterinsurgencies in Mozambique and Angola; set up a covert agency responsible for disinformation and assassination; sent troops to control unrest in so-called townships, areas designated for blacks; and declared that political rights were not a relevant concern for blacks. He and his aides regularly used terms like ''annihilate'' and ''exterminate.'' He approved a biological warfare program.
He also created programs to win the support of middle-class blacks by easing restrictions on black businesses and opening some hotels, theaters and restaurants to blacks.
General Malan was charged with authorizing an assassination squad that mistakenly killed 13 civilians, mainly women and children, in 1987. He was the highest-ranking apartheid official ever prosecuted. He was acquitted in 1996 after a seven-month trial on the ground that there was no evidence linking him to the massacre. President Nelson Mandela, without commenting on the substance of the verdict, defended the court's legitimacy.
In 1997, General Malan volunteered to testify before South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which investigated atrocities in the country's past. He accepted responsibility for the cross-border counterinsurgencies and for setting up the secret police agency, and for the deaths they caused. But he characterized the actions as ''legal acts of state.''
The commission condemned General Malan and other top government leaders for using words like ''eliminate,'' ''take out'' and ''wipe out,'' a predilection that it said led to the killing of political opponents. It also condemned the assassination teams. It passed these findings on to prosecutors, who for reasons of ''national interest'' did not take up the case.
Magnus Andre De Merindol was born in Pretoria on Jan. 30, 1930, and later adopted his mother's surname, Malan. His father was a biochemistry professor who went on to become a member of Parliament and parliamentary speaker for the National Party, which governed South Africa from 1948 to 1994.
He tried to join the Army at 13, then returned to school after he was rejected. He earned a bachelor's degree in military science from the University of Pretoria; joined the Navy; and served a stint in the Marines on Robben Island, site of the prison where Mr. Mandela was held. He transferred to the Army as a lieutenant, rising rapidly, and studied at the United States Army's General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., in 1962-63.
By the early 1970s, General Malan had come to epitomize the sort of modern military technocrat whose influence was rising in South Africa. He was named chief of the South African Army in 1973 and chief of the South African Defense Force in 1976. He was the youngest man to hold both positions.
Prime Minister P. W. Botha, who had come to rely on General Malan as chief of the defense force, named him his defense minister in 1980. He rose to become chairman of the minister's council in the House of Assembly, the lower house of Parliament.
But his real power came from being part of the secretive group of military and political commanders that became known as ''securocrats.'' He presided over a budget of nearly $4 billion, of which 60 percent was controlled by an inner group of the cabinet. He approved the innocuously named Civil Cooperation Bureau, which became known for assassinations and other covert deeds.
In his testimony to the truth commission, General Malan said: ''During these periods we are talking about, 1980 to 1991, we were fighting a war. I had more than 100,000 troops under training or busy with operations. So we were pretty much busy. We had a front approximately as far as London is from Moscow.''
General Malan led the talks that paved the way for Namibia's independence in 1990, ending its status as a colony of South Africa. In July 1991, President F. W. de Klerk removed him from the defense ministry in the wake of embarrassment over secret government financing of a mainly black party that opposed Mr. Mandela's African National Congress. He moved General Malan to the ministry for water affairs and forestry. General Malan retired from Parliament in 1993.
He is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Magrietha van der Walt; two sons; a daughter; and nine grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Magnus Malan, South Africa's former defense minister, at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in 1997. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE HUTCHINGS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); RACE & RACISM (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ESPIONAGE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); VERDICTS (69%); BIOCHEMISTRY (66%); POLICE FORCES (64%); ACQUITTAL (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (91%) SOUTH AFRICA (99%); ANGOLA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



670 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Unions Say City Opera Invalidates Endowment

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The beleaguered New York City Opera may be facing a new hurdle: questions about whether its move from Lincoln Center would place much of the company's dwindling endowment at risk.
Ratcheting up their campaign against management, City Opera's unions are charging that the move violates the terms of a gift made by Lila and DeWitt Wallace, the founders of Reader's Digest. The gift served as the bulk of City Opera's endowment.
The unions filed a complaint on Monday with the New York State attorney general's office, which oversees nonprofits. During the 2008-9 season the office gave permission for City Opera to use $23.5 million from the Wallace endowment to pay debts and finance operations. 
Such withdrawals are highly unusual for nonprofits and require the scrutiny of state officials and a judge's approval. At the time the company's finances were in crisis because of the closing of its home, now called the David H. Koch Theater, for renovations; accumulated deficits; the poor economy; and unmet fund-raising goals.
George Steel, City Opera's general and artistic director, said in May that the company's survival depended on the savings that could be realized by moving out of Lincoln Center and performing in various locations around the city.
City Opera officials declined to discuss the charges, but issued a statement, saying the company was ''committed to presenting artistically exciting productions in a financially responsible way.'' It continued, ''This latest salvo is another distraction from real issues. We take strong exception to the suggestion that we have misled anyone. That accusation is ridiculous.''
Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, which represents the orchestra, and the American Guild of Musical Artists, which represents the chorus and other employees, are fighting to keep the company at Lincoln Center and preserve job guarantees and benefits.
In a letter to Jason R. Lilien, chief of the charities bureau of the attorney general's office, the unions said City Opera misrepresented its plans when it sought release of the endowment money.
Gaining access to the funds, City Opera said at the time, would ''ensure that the fundamental purpose of the Wallace Fund -- the support of City Opera itself, as a vital and unique institution and a constituent part of the Lincoln Center campus -- is not frustrated.'' City Opera cited its ''prominent location at the heart of the most important cultural campus in the world'' and the ''imminent opening of a newly renovated theater.'' Two years later it announced plans to move.
The unions also focused on the terms of the endowment.
By deciding to leave, City Opera ''has disregarded and, in its own words, flouted the 'fundamental purpose' of the Wallace Fund to support 'a constituent part of the Lincoln Center campus,' '' the unions said. The move is ''illegal under the terms, donor intent and purposes of the Wallace Fund.'' The unions offered no evidence that the company was planning to move as it was making the request.
They added, ''Any use of its funds once the opera no longer is located at Lincoln Center would be an improper administration of the fund.'' The unions asked Mr. Lilien to seek a court order to halt the move. His office declined to comment, a spokeswoman said, adding that officials were examining the complaint.
Given how much the endowment has dwindled -- to about $4.8 million -- the practical effects of the challenge are uncertain. About $2.9 million of the current endowment is Wallace money. City Opera's budget for next season is $13 million.
In addition City Opera has promised to pay back the $23.5 million in $2 million increments. It said in legal papers in 2009 that it would make the first payment at the end of the 2009-10 season. A spokeswoman said payments have not been made.
The Lila Acheson and DeWitt Wallace Fund for Lincoln Center was established in 1982, ''exclusively for the benefit of the constituent companies of Lincoln Center,'' according to the certificate of incorporation, which was included among supporting documents filed with the attorney general. Nearly 20 years later the fund was divided among the organizations at Lincoln Center. City Opera received $51 million.
Bruce Crawford, a former chairman of Lincoln Center, was vice president of the Wallace Fund for Lincoln Center when it was distributed. ''DeWitt and Lila, they made it quite clear that they were leaving their money to Lincoln Center constituents,'' Mr. Crawford said. ''It's questionable whether the balance should be used for anything other than a Lincoln Center constituent.''
City Opera's chairman at the time of the distribution was Irwin Schneiderman, whose son is Eric Schneiderman, now New York's attorney general.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); THEATER (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); CHARITIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MUSIC (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%)

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



671 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: In Connecticut, Unions Amend Voting Rules To Revive Deal

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
Facing 6,500 layoffs and punishing program cuts, the leadership of the state employees' unions in Connecticut voted on Monday to change their bylaws to make it easier for union workers to approve a concession agreement whose rejection last month scrapped a budget-cutting deal with the state.
A new vote, which would require a simple majority rather than the 80 percent threshold that previously was in place, could set in motion what has seemed for weeks to be a possible endgame after 57 percent of union members and 11 of the 15 unions voted in favor of the deal. That plan was meant to produce $1.6 billion in labor savings over two years, but it failed to gain approval because of the high bar to passage. Under the new guidelines, approval is needed from 8 of 15 unions and a majority of the union members voting. 
Still, it is unclear what will happen if a second vote goes forward.
With layoff notices already going out and deep cuts announced last week, there is added pressure on union members to approve the agreement. But a second vote under new rules is certain to anger many opponents and be seen as a blunt power play by union leadership to gain approval. The high bar was put in place to protect workers from losing earlier gains.
''It's good news that the unions have changed their ratification process to one that respects the will of the majority,'' Gov. Dannel P. Malloy said Monday in a statement.
Mr. Malloy, a Democrat who was elected last year, has said that he will not renegotiate the agreement but that he is willing to meet with unions to clarify any disputed issues.
''Given the limited number of issues that have been identified as problematic,'' he said, ''it shouldn't take more than a couple of days to have a clarified agreement that's ready to be voted on by all state employees.''
But on the Web site of The Hartford Courant, a magnet for heated online commentary about the negotiations, reactions were mixed. Some posters complained that the decision was a betrayal of the union vote. ''Wake up state employees!'' one person wrote. ''Your rights and benefits are being sold out from under you!''
Others said the union had made its choice and the layoffs should proceed.
The decision came after almost a month of ferment and anxiety after workers rejected what was originally characterized as a labor-friendly settlement to cut the state budget.
It included a two-year wage freeze and additional contributions for health care and pensions, as well as a four-year protection against layoffs for unionized employees and 9 percent raises by the end of five years. Opponents were especially critical of the health care language, and critics said the agreement could put employees in a new state insurance program, called SustiNet. Union and administration officials blamed a disinformation campaign and said the fears were groundless.
The changes on Monday set in motion what could be a frantic race to approve an agreement before workers lose their jobs and program cuts go into effect. Roughly 1,000 layoff notices have gone out, but most layoffs will be phased in over the next month or so. Indications are that talks on clarifying the agreement will begin on Tuesday. If an agreement is reached, union officials say a vote will have to be much faster than the monthlong process that led to the last vote.
''It's not just that time isn't on our side,'' said Matt O'Connor, a union spokesman. ''The clock has stopped ticking. We really need to get this done fast.''
The cuts that Mr. Malloy announced last week go after an array of budget items, like economic development programs, highway rest stops, bus subsidies and bridge inspections. They would close courthouses, welfare offices and motor vehicles branches; impose a 15 percent fare increase on the Metro-North Railroad; and eliminate two popular seasonal ferries across the Connecticut River. Also possible are legislative changes to collective bargaining and workers' contracts if an agreement is not approved.
In the Democratic-controlled General Assembly, the sense of relief was palpable -- tempered by the recognition that experience has shown that it is foolish to assume anything.
Donald E. Williams Jr., the Senate president pro tem, and Martin M. Looney, the majority leader, praised the changes in a statement.
''This is Connecticut's last, and best, chance to resolve its fiscal crisis without undermining its recovery,'' they said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); APPROVALS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



672 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Borders Moves to Liquidate, a Casualty of Changes in Bookselling

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
8:31 p.m. Updated
The Borders Group said Monday that it would liquidate, shutting down the 40-year-old bookseller after it failed to find a last-minute savior.
Though it is not a big surprise, the move will still strip the publishing industry of shelf space that is becoming increasingly scarce as brick-and-mortar stores continue to founder.
Borders said it would proceed with a proposal by the private equity firms Hilco and the Gordon Brothers Group to close down its 399 remaining stores. That liquidation plan will be presented on Thursday to the federal judge overseeing the company's bankruptcy case.
The company will begin closing its remaining stores as soon as Friday, and the liquidation is expected to run through September. The chain has 10,700 employees. 
Borders' fate appeared sealed after a committee of its biggest unsecured creditors rejected the company's plan to sell itself to the Najafi Companies for $215.1 million. The committee had argued that the bid by Najafi, which also owns the Book-of-the-Month Club, could have allowed the investment firm to liquidate Borders without the creditors benefiting.
Borders had set Sunday as a deadline to find alternatives to liquidation. But while it had held talks with Books-A-Million and other companies, it was unable to sign up another deal.
''Following the best efforts of all parties, we are saddened by this development,'' Mike Edwards, Borders' president, said in a statement. ''The headwinds we have been facing for quite some time, including the rapidly changing book industry, e-reader revolution, and turbulent economy, have brought us to where we are now.''
The company, which began in 1971 as a used bookstore in Ann Arbor, Mich., fought to stay afloat for years amid a tough retail environment, persistent management turnover and a failure to move aggressively into digital books. In February, it filed for bankruptcy protection and closed about a third of its 650 stores.
Publishers, disheartened by the news, had watched Borders' troubles deepen for years. After the bookseller declared bankruptcy in February, many publishers pressed for a reorganization plan, but they were left unconvinced that executives had a workable way to revamp the company.
''It saddens me tremendously because it was a wonderful chain of bookstores that sold our books very well,'' said Morgan Entrekin, the president and publisher of Grove/Atlantic, an independent publisher. ''It's part of the whole change that we're dealing with, which is very confusing.''
The news exposed a deep fear among publishers that bookstores would go the way of the record store, leaving potential customers without the chance to stumble upon a book and make an impulse purchase. Publishers have worried that without a specific place to browse for books, consumers could turn to one of the many other forms of entertainment available and leave books behind.
Independent shops have closed in droves as book sales have moved online, especially to Amazon. Barnes & Noble put itself up for sale last year and has focused on expanding its digital footprint as sales of print books slowed.
Publishers said that with Borders gone, they would plan for smaller print runs and shipments. Employees at major publishing houses worried about layoffs because many companies have staff members who work only with Borders.
The closing could particularly hurt paperback sales. Borders was known as a retailer that took special care in selling paperbacks, and its promotion of certain titles could propel them to best-seller status.
When it filed for bankruptcy protection in February, Borders owed $272 million to its 30 largest unsecured creditors, including Penguin Group USA, Hachette Book Group, Simon & Schuster, Random House, HarperCollins and Macmillan.
Most publishers were unwilling to restore normal trade terms to Borders after the bankruptcy filing and insisted on being paid for books in cash and in advance.
The closings will almost certainly be a boon for Borders' competitors. Other national book chains, like Barnes & Noble and Books-A-Million, could move into stores vacated by Borders. Some competing bookstores are already nearby. A spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble said that 70 percent of Barnes & Noble's stores are within five miles of an existing Borders store.
Independent bookstores, historically the foes of the big chains, stand to benefit from the closings of Borders stores. That effect has already begun to be seen all over the country from the Borders stores that closed earlier this year.
At Next Chapter Bookshop in Mequon, Wis., sales rose 20 percent in June and July after a Borders several miles away went out of business, said Lanora Hurley, the owner.
''Everybody was saying those customers are going to go online,'' Ms. Hurley said. ''But there's still a market for print books, and I'm happy to see that that is flowing to an independent bookstore. I've got lots of new customers.''
But the effect that superstores have had on independents in the last two decades was not entirely forgotten. Linda Bubon, an owner of Women and Children First, a 31-year-old bookstore in Chicago, said she had watched incredulously as Borders opened store after store in the last 10 years.
''Now we have this behemoth off our backs,'' she said. ''It's not the politic answer to say that inside, there's a little happy bookseller who's jumping up and down.''
Below is the internal memo to Borders employees from Mr. Edwards:
Good afternoon, I wanted to reach out to you and give you an update on Borders' reorganization process. As you know, last week we submitted a proposal from Hilco and Gordon Brothers as the stalking horse bid, which set the minimum bid requirement for the auction. Following continued negotiations and the best efforts from all parties, no bidders have presented a formal proposal to keep our company operating as a going concern. Therefore, under the terms of our DIP financing agreement, we intend to present to the court for approval the proposal from Hilco and Gordon Brothers, under which these two companies will purchase our stores' assets and administer the liquidation process. We will submit this proposal at a hearing scheduled for Thursday, July 21, and we will not proceed with the auction originally scheduled for tomorrow, July 19. All of us have been working hard towards a different outcome, and I wish I had better news to report to you today. The truth is that Borders has been facing headwinds for quite some time, including a rapidly changing book industry, eReader revolution, and turbulent economy. We put in a valiant fight, but regrettably in the end we weren't able to overcome these external forces. For decades, our stores have been destinations within our communities - places where people have sought knowledge, entertainment, and enlightenment and connected with others who share their passion. Whether you work in our stores, distribution centers, or at the Store Support Center in Ann Arbor, each of you has played a valuable role in helping ignite the love of reading in our customers. Together, Borders and Waldenbooks associates have helped millions of people discover new books, music, and movies, and I hope you'll take pride in the role we've played in our customers' lives. Now we must begin switching gears and preparing for the wind-down process, which we expect to begin for stores as soon as this Friday, July 22 and conclude by the end of September. Wind-down will begin in phases in other areas, such as our Store Support Center and distribution centers, over the next week. Please know that we are committed to sharing information with you as quickly as possible. To that end, you should expect to hear from your manager by the end of this week with details regarding separation information, severance, benefits, and other resources for employees. You have my assurance that we will do whatever we can to help our employees through this transition. In closing, I'd like to express how much I appreciate each and every one of you and all that you've done. The last few months have been stressful, uncertain times, but you've stood by Borders and have continued to impress me with your dedication, resilience, and strong drive to fight until the very end to save our company. Whether you've been with Borders for a few months or several years, I hope you know how much I value you and all that you've contributed. The coming weeks will be difficult as we wind down operations, but I hope you'll continue to hold your head high. You've done me proud and, from the bottom of my heart, I thank you. - Mike
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Borders, which began in 1971, is expected to start closing its 399 remaining stores on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (76%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (72%); MUSIC STORES (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%)

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (96%); BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (69%); BOOKS-A-MILLION INC (67%); GORDON BROTHERS GROUP LLC (57%)

TICKER: BAMM (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (96%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (96%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



673 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Market Due for Overhaul

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE, GEORGE HAY and PETER THAL LARSEN

 BODY:
A year after passage of the Dodd-Frank act, the $10.5 trillion American mortgage market remains in limbo. One big reason is that the law scarcely touches Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration -- the government-run lenders that dominate the home loan market.
The consequences of lax mortgage lending were central to the crisis that Dodd-Frank was intended to make unrepeatable. But rather than tackle the huge and highly political issue of Fannie, Freddie and the F.H.A., the law narrowly focused on one part of the market. That's the private-label mortgage-backed securities area, source of more than $3 trillion of mortgage bonds from 2002 to 2007. 
The most significant new rule could require private sector financial institutions to hold at least 5 percent of securities they create by repackaging loans. Giving them some incentive to ensure the securities are creditworthy isn't a bad idea, but it reinforces the notion that the private sector is at a competitive disadvantage to government lenders if it returns to the mortgage-backed business. That's because Fannie and other government-run programs would be exempt from this requirement.
The risk retention rule plays into another Dodd-Frank initiative: the creation of standards for safer home loans known as qualified residential mortgages. Such loans, in which the proposal is that homeowners must put 20 percent down, among other criteria, would be exempt from risk retention requirements.
Banks, real estate lobbyists and consumer groups want looser standards because mortgages that don't qualify could be costlier. That hardly seems catastrophic for borrowers when 30-year mortgage rates are as low as 4.5 percent. But it's easy to see the point when federally backed housing agencies sometimes allow homeowners to borrow 96.5 percent of the value of their homes.
In short, the reform effort so far seems to make it harder for the private sector to re-establish itself while entrenching the cost, and risk, with taxpayers. Congress and regulators must assess housing finance as one market. Until the future of the hulking government mortgage finance companies is mapped out, the worthy goals of Dodd-Frank don't mean much.
Dealing With Greece
Europe's banks can mostly withstand serious losses on their holdings of Greek sovereign debt. Officially, just eight banks failed the European Union's latest stress tests, with a capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion). But the exam had a major flaw: it did not require banks to apply a haircut to the majority of their holdings of euro zone peripheral debt.
That's at odds with reality. Any revised bailout package for Greece is likely to force banks to recognize at least some losses on their debt. An analysis by Breakingviews examined what would happen under such a case. It takes the banks' holdings of sovereign debt in their banking books and applies losses to Greek, Portuguese, Irish, Spanish and Italian debt based on where the countries' five-year bonds were trading last Friday. The value of Greek bonds, for example, is slashed in half.
As a result, this analysis shows 27 banks failing, with a capital shortfall of about 25 billion euros, or 10 times the official number.
That sounds scary. But the biggest problem is in Greece itself, where the hole is 13.6 billion euros. This is not much more than the 10 billion euros Greece has already set aside to recapitalize failing lenders.
Portugal and Spain also take a hit under the analysis, with capital shortfalls of 3.3 billion euros and 6 billion euros, respectively. But in the context of their economies, the amount isn't huge.
Investors may quibble with some of the Breakingviews assumptions. In particular, the pass mark of 5 percent for a bank's core Tier 1 capital ratio may seem too low. Raise it to 6 percent, and the number of failing institutions jumps to 38, and the capital hole to 45 billion euros.
None of it means euro zone leaders can merrily let Greece default. They need to recapitalize banks sufficiently to deal with such an event, not merely any stresses anticipated by the official tests. And they need to put in other firewalls to prepare for any second-order impacts. But if they do, a Greek default need not be a disaster. AGNES T. CRANE, GEORGE HAY and PETER THAL LARSEN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The federal government took over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); BONDS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); EURO ZONE (64%); EURO (63%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); PRIVATE LABELS (55%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



674 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 49 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on July 9 about air service cutbacks at midsize airports and cities hit hard by the recession referred incorrectly to Delta Air Lines' operations at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport. Delta continues to use the airport as a hub; it did not shut down the hub in 2009. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (88%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); AIR SERVICE (85%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (86%) KENTUCKY, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



675 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON SOCCER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Advancing Slowly on a Daunting Road

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
FRANKFURT
The Women's World Cup proved to be an engaging showcase of just how far women's soccer has come and a sober reminder of how far it has to go.
Japan's victory provided encouragement for a wounded nation at home and for a soccer world that came to embrace the team's rhythmic passing and clever movement. France, too, elevated the sport to something elegant and stylish.
''There's something to be said about the way Japan plays,'' said Pia Sundhage, the United States coach. ''They are comfortable with the ball. That's good for women's football going forward.'' 
The Americans will undoubtedly lament their missed opportunities and rare unease during penalty kicks in Sunday's final. But Japan's penalty-kick triumph confirmed that women's soccer is growing more globalized and competitive and no longer remains the private dominion of the United States, Germany and Scandinavia.
Colombia qualified for the first time at this World Cup. So did Equatorial Guinea. France was a first-time semifinalist, Japan a first-time champion. The worst blowout was 4-0, far closer than the 11-0 defeat that Germany handed to Argentina in 2007.
Eighty percent of the available tickets were sold. Crowds were supportive and well-behaved. Goalkeeping was often stalwart, goal scoring frequently inspired. For mesmerizing competition, it would be difficult to top Japan's stunning quarterfinal victory over Germany and the United States' thrilling comeback against Brazil.
Twelve years ago, the stirring American victory over China in penalty kicks in the Women's World Cup final was viewed as revolution as much as sport. It was a sports-bra-baring celebration of possibility, a confirmation of the heights that women could scale if given the full opportunity to participate as promised by the gender-equity legislation known as Title IX.
Freed from the burden and responsibility of being pioneers, the current American players could simply perform and be appreciated for what they were: terrific athletes who persevered with speed, grit, depth and a steadfast belief that victory could be summoned with unyielding tenacity.
''In '99, there was a clear consciousness that it was important for women's soccer and all girls and women in sports,'' said Brandi Chastain, who scored the winning penalty kick in the final and led the jersey-waving celebration in that tournament. ''This team I think now is being seen as more mainstream. There's still some of that 'they're beautiful and they're good,' which is fine. But I've heard more comments about the actual soccer than previously, which is a great evolution.''
Or as Julie Foudy, a former American captain, put it: ''Now, it's less about, 'Oh it's great that women have this opportunity.' It's 'Look how this game has spread.' ''
And yet, this was only the sixth World Cup held for women. The tournament began in 1991, six decades after the first men's World Cup. It was only seven years ago that Sepp Blatter, the president of FIFA, said that women could enhance their game by wearing tighter shorts. There is still much catching up to do.
Eucharia Uche, the Nigerian coach, tarnished her team's appearance with homophobic remarks, saying that she had attempted to rid the squad of lesbian behavior, calling homosexuality ''a dirty issue'' and ''spiritually, morally very wrong.'' It was a clear violation of FIFA rules against discrimination, but, as usual when charged with policing itself, FIFA did nothing but issue empty words.
Players from Germany and France posed nude in desperate attempts to draw attention for the World Cup. The BBC had to be pressured into showing England's quarterfinal match against France. The match drew 1.8 million viewers in England, the country where modern soccer was invented, but the women's game remains largely dismissed there.
''If I'm honest, my professional colleagues and friends looked at me with some pity that I was going to have to cover the Women's World Cup,'' said Ian Darke, a British commentator for ESPN. ''Like it was a punishment. What had I done wrong?''
At least England qualified for the World Cup, unlike China, a finalist in 1999, a no-show in 2011. Foudy said she had spoken to a former club teammate from China and was told that parents there had grown reluctant to put their daughters in sports schools, fearing the education level was subpar.
As more economic prosperity comes to China, Foudy said, ''Parents don't want their kids left behind.''
Brazil played a paltry number of warm-up matches and did not look particularly sharp. The country's soccer federation has never fully embraced the women's game. This reflects the continuing difficulty that women will face in countries where men's soccer is powerful, said Andrei Markovits, a Michigan professor and a co-author of ''Offside: Soccer and American Exceptionalism.''
In Latin America and Europe, with the exception of Germany, Markovits said, women from dominant male soccer cultures ''will have it very hard, because men see it as their domain and will not accept them and will constantly put them down and see them as lesser achievers.''
''They see these women as intruders, pure and simple,'' he said.
At this World Cup, the United States took a step backward in terms of diversity. All its players were white, while England, France and Germany fielded more multicultural lineups and Mexico featured Mexican-American players. Perhaps this symbolized the stagnation in youth development that a number of coaches say has tempered the American women's game.
''There's been no direction,'' said Tony DiCicco, who coached the United States to the 1999 World Cup title. ''We lost ground because of that.''
At the senior level, the United States is now confronted with the unassailable truth that it must add technical sophistication to athleticism and resolve to remain among the best in the world.
''Absolutely, no doubt about that,'' Sundhage said.
''Look at Japan and France.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With a loss in the World Cup final, Hope Solo and her U.S. teammates were reminded of international progress in women's soccer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALPH ORLOWSKI/REUTERS) (B10)
 Abby Wambach and the U.S. team were in New York on Monday after the World Cup. More at goal.blogs.nytimes.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WOMEN (89%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); TICKET SALES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (74%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (91%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



676 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: On Nauru, a Sinking Feeling

BYLINE: By MARCUS STEPHEN. 
Marcus Stephen is the president of Nauru.

 BODY:
Yaren, Nauru
I FORGIVE you if you have never heard of my country.
At just 8 square miles, about a third of the size of Manhattan, and located in the southern Pacific Ocean, Nauru appears as merely a pinpoint on most maps -- if it is not missing entirely in a vast expanse of blue.
But make no mistake; we are a sovereign nation, with our own language, customs and history dating back 3,000 years. Nauru is worth a quick Internet search, I assure you, for not only will you discover a fascinating country that is often overlooked, you will find an indispensible cautionary tale about life in a place with hard ecological limits. 
Phosphate mining, first by foreign companies and later our own, cleared the lush tropical rainforest that once covered our island's interior, scarring the land and leaving only a thin strip of coastline for us to live on. The legacy of exploitation left us with few economic alternatives and one of the highest unemployment rates in the world, and led previous governments to make unwise investments that ultimately squandered our country's savings.
I am not looking for sympathy, but rather warning you what can happen when a country runs out of options. The world is headed down a similar path with the relentless burning of coal and oil, which is altering the planet's climate, melting ice caps, making oceans more acidic and edging us ever closer to a day when no one will be able to take clean water, fertile soil or abundant food for granted.
Climate change also threatens the very existence of many countries in the Pacific, where the sea level is projected to rise three feet or more by the end of the century. Already, Nauru's coast, the only habitable area, is steadily eroding, and communities in Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands have been forced to flee their homes to escape record tides. The low-lying nations of Tuvalu, Kiribati and the Marshall Islands may vanish entirely within our grandchildren's lifetimes.
Similar climate stories are playing out on nearly every continent, where a steady onslaught of droughts, floods and heat waves, which are expected to become even more frequent and intense with climate change, have displaced millions of people and led to widespread food shortages.
The changes have already heightened competition over scarce resources, and could foreshadow life in a world where conflicts are increasingly driven by environmental catastrophes.
Yet the international community has not begun to prepare for the strain they will put on humanitarian organizations or their implications for political stability around the world.
In 2009, an initiative by the Pacific Small Island Developing States, of which I am chairman, prompted the United Nations General Assembly to recognize the link between climate change and security. But two years later, no concrete action has been taken.
So I was pleased to learn that the United Nations Security Council will take up the issue tomorrow in an open debate, in which I will have the opportunity to address the body and reiterate my organization's proposals.
First, the Security Council should join the General Assembly in recognizing climate change as a threat to international peace and security. It is a threat as great as nuclear proliferation or global terrorism. Second, a special representative on climate and security should be appointed. Third, we must assess whether the United Nations system is itself capable of responding to a crisis of this magnitude.
The stakes are too high to implement these measures only after a disaster is already upon us. Negotiations to reduce emissions should remain the primary forum for reaching an international agreement. We are not asking for blue helmets to intervene; we are simply asking the international community to plan for the biggest environmental and humanitarian challenge of our time.
Nauru has begun an intensive program to restore the damage done by mining, and my administration has put environmental sustainability at the center of our policymaking. Making our island whole again will be a long and difficult process, but it is our home and we cannot leave it for another one.
I forgive you if you have never heard of Nauru -- but you will not forgive yourselves if you ignore our story.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY BEDROSIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (86%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (74%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (69%); DROUGHT (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); DISPLACED PERSONS (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); RAIN FORESTS (54%); PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (54%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) NAURU (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); MARSHALL ISLANDS (79%); KIRIBATI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



677 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Cities Large and Small Report an Upsurge in Graffiti

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Ian Lovett contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

 BODY:
SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- Fresh blotches of graffiti decorate the backs of street signs here near the ocean. Tags have popped up on guardrails along the dirt trails near Griffith Park across town. There are, almost daily, fresh splashes on walls in the San Fernando Valley, on downtown Los Angeles buildings and on billboards along the highways.
And Los Angeles does not appear to be alone in grappling with a recent upsurge in graffiti, which is turning up in some unlikely places. A bumper crop of scrawls is blossoming in many modest-size communities across the country -- in places like Florence, Ala.; Bernalillo County, N.M.; Taylors, S.C.; and in larger cities like Nashville and Portland, Ore. -- even as major cities like Chicago, Denver, New York and Seattle say vigilant antigraffiti campaigns have spared them thus far. 
''It's popped up all of a sudden in the last six months,'' said Tim Sandrell, the owner of Safari Adventures in Hair in Florence. ''I've been downtown for 10 years, and I'm really disappointed that we are seeing this kind of activity. We have a beautiful city and an historic city, and it's really upsetting to me seeing this going on.''
The upturn has prompted concern among city officials and renewed a debate about whether glorifying such displays -- be it in museum exhibits, tattoos or television advertisements -- contributes to urban blight and economic decay. But it is also stirring a debate about what is causing this recent surge and whether it might be an early indicator that anxiety and alienation are growing in some struggling urban areas in the face of stubborn unemployment and the lingering effects of the recession. The latest statistics from Los Angeles, where the unemployment rate was 11 percent in May, attest to a widening problem: the city removed 35.4 million square feet of graffiti for the fiscal year that ended June 30, an 8.2 percent jump over last year, city officials said.
''We've seen the amount of graffiti go up yearly,'' said Paul Racs, the director of the Office of Community Beautification.
Tim Francis, a supervisor for the Blue Ridge Parkway in North Carolina, said there had been a rash of tagging on park signs, underpasses and the parkway. Rangers have set up surveillance, but the length of the highway in Mr. Francis's jurisdiction -- 165 miles, stretching from Boone to Cherokee -- and the furtiveness of the graffiti writers makes catching them daunting.
''We are seeing tagging anywhere and everywhere,'' Mr. Francis said. ''Summertime, kids are out of school. Idle hands.''
In Bernalillo County, which includes Albuquerque, graffiti complaints in June jumped to 300, from 84 in April.
''It just keeps coming up, little by little,'' said Bobby Velasco, the county's graffiti supervisor. ''We've covered more this year so far than we did last year.''
A metal recycling center is a favorite target, Mr. Velasco said.
''We clean it up every week, and every week they always come back and put up 'Welcome to L.A.,' '' he said.
In Portland, officials said taggers from other communities were defacing their property. ''We're arresting more people from out of town,'' said Marcia Dennis, the city's graffiti abatement coordinator. ''For every one we get cleaned up, something else takes its place.''
The upsurge comes as cities like Los Angeles, struggling with budget cuts, have trimmed graffiti fighting programs; the $7.1 million budget for graffiti eradication last year was cut 6.5 percent in the budget that took effect July 1. But cities like Santa Monica have not cut back, and have still had an upsurge, suggesting other factors are at play.
Some officials, like Mr. Francis, say it is a symptom of summer recess, a tough economy that has left many teenagers out of work and a general sense of anxiety and malaise. ''People know the cops aren't around or they are working on other stuff,'' said Bobby Shriver, a member of the Santa Monica City Council.
Neighborhood leaders and law enforcement officials also blamed what they call a glamorization of graffiti, reflected by a new graffiti exhibit at the Sunset Marquis Hotel in West Hollywood, even after an earlier furor over a full-fledged graffiti exhibit at the Museum of Contemporary Art.
''It's because of the pop culture,'' said Ramona Findley, a Los Angeles police detective who heads the department's graffiti task force. ''It's very interesting; with your violent crime going down, it seems like your mischievous crime is going up. The art world has accepted it. People make money from graffiti T-shirts. I was in Wal-Mart on Easter, and I saw graffiti Easter eggs.''
Ms. Dennis, in Portland, described graffiti as ''addictive behavior,'' adding: ''The rush is addictive, and these guys don't quit. They all think they're going to end up being fabulously wealthy graffiti artists like Marc Ecko or Banksy or Shepard Fairey.''
Several officials said they were concerned the graffiti had extended beyond gang markers to others who consider more of their community a canvas. ''The areas where we've seen the biggest increase are areas where we haven't had a problem before,'' said Mr. Racs of the Los Angeles beautification office. ''It's not gangs. It's primarily just taggers. They are just cruising around on their skateboards.''
And the problem, he said, has become more national. ''I get calls all the time from little cities in Iowa and Indiana that have never had a graffiti issue before,'' Mr. Racs said.
The surge has prompted new efforts to combat it, including a graffiti-recognition database in Los Angeles and a reinstitution of foot patrols in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Portland.
''We will have four or five people starting out once a week around dusk walking the neighborhood with a graffiti cleanup kit,'' said Michael O'Connor, the head of the Brooklyn Action Corps in Portland.
The rise in graffiti has stirred concern among officials who already feared budget cuts would threaten eradication efforts.
''Cities don't have the budgets they once had for cleanup,'' said William J. Bratton, who served as police commissioner in New York and Los Angeles. ''Police forces don't have the resources they once had for enforcement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A modified parking sign in Los Angeles. Some of the drawings, center and right, are sanctioned, leading some to question whether such displays encourage illegal drawings.
In major cities like Los Angeles, above, and smaller places like Florence, Ala., population 38,000, a bumper crop of scrawls has blossomed. (A13)
 A tagged bench in Los Angeles, where the amount of graffiti removed jumped 8.2 percent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAFFITI (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); STATISTICS (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



678 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: A New High-Tech Assault On Midtown Traffic Jams

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
It is an all-too-common sight in Midtown Manhattan: cars, taxis and trucks stacked behind one another, gridlock forming at intersections, horns blaring as pedestrians navigate the tight spaces between bumpers.
And above it all, computerized traffic lights flash green or red at designated cycles, impervious to the madness below.
But on Monday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and city and federal transportation officials introduced a weapon that they say will not only enable them to know instantly when and where traffic tie-ups erupt, but will also give them the ability to manipulate traffic signals to ease the logjams. 
This is not the first time the city has proclaimed that it held a potential solution for Midtown traffic, a perennial problem that has vexed other well-intended mayors, and it probably will not be the last.
And to the mayor's credit, he made no suggestion that the streets of Midtown would suddenly open up like the empty roads depicted in ''I Am Legend'' or ''Vanilla Sky.''
''I don't want anybody to think starting tomorrow that there won't be another traffic jam between 42nd and 57th,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''But we can make it better. It takes a while to get the bugs out.''
The mayor appeared at the city's traffic command center in Queens to introduce the $1.6 million program, paid in part by the federal government. Through wireless technology, traffic engineers in Long Island City can now gather data from microwave sensors, traffic video cameras and E-ZPass readers at 23 intersections across 110 Midtown blocks.
Once city workers have consolidated this data in a computer program, they plan to identify the most troubled traffic spots from Second Avenue to Avenue of the Americas and 42nd to 57th Street. That way they can alter the lengths of lights by a few seconds to help improve traffic flow. They also plan to offer this data to software developers so that drivers and passengers can gain access to this detailed information on their iPads or iPhones.
The city has a clear motivation in improving traffic: Mr. Bloomberg estimated on Monday that traffic delays cost the city's economy $13 billion.
But previous efforts have not always worked as promised. In 1992, the city announced that it would embed sensors in Manhattan roadways that would enable traffic engineers to track and monitor conditions from Queens; it also announced a program to upgrade the city's system of traffic lights. The net effect, the city envisioned then, would be strikingly similar to what the city is hoping for now. Transportation officials said that the program was abandoned because it was too costly and unreliable.
The city's nerve center for traffic is the windowless and well-worn traffic command center in Long Island City. Each day the city's engineers there scan dozens of television screens showing various intersections and what resembles an oversized, Manhattan-shape Lite-Brite for clues to fix the city's worst snarls.
Until now, when the engineers discovered these snarls, they had programmed all of their traffic patterns in advance and could do little to change them. So the routine continued: trucks, taxis, tour buses and a lone Porsche driver blaring Rihanna, all sitting in the same endless traffic.
The city's transportation commissioner, Janette Sadik-Khan, echoed the mayor's cautious optimism, noting that New York is the first city to combine these new technologies to improve traffic flow.
She said the city would test this program for the next six months by using GPS data collected from taxicabs, which will track how long it takes to get to different points across the city. Then the city will decide how to expand this program into other parts of Midtown.
Once the mayor had left the control center on Monday, Mohamad Talas, deputy director for system engineering, leaned over a computer screen and studied a map of Midtown. His fellow transportation engineers read a message that traffic that had been clogging Third Avenue had cleared up. The computer wanted to verify that they could lengthen the lights' waiting times by several seconds. He clicked ''O.K.,'' and traffic lights along Third Avenue simply changed.
Mr. Talas smiled with satisfaction and said, ''Now you have the ability to do this in real time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traffic in Times Square. The city's Midtown management system uses microwave sensors, video cameras and E-ZPass readers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TY CACEK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); ENGINEERING (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); TABLET COMPUTERS (63%); SMARTPHONES (60%); MICROWAVE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



679 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Dodd-Frank Under Fire A Year Later

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the year since the passage of a sweeping overhaul of the nation's financial regulatory system after the financial crisis, the stock market is up, banking profits have grown and institutions that invest on behalf of average Americans are praising the tougher stance in Washington.
Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, expressed the general good feeling among Obama administration officials on Monday, saying that the financial system was ''on more solid ground'' than at any time since before the crisis in 2008. 
But there remain signs that the tightened regulatory measures could still be undone, creating uncertainty about whether the actions that have helped to stabilize Wall Street will be in place when the next crisis hits.
Two dozen bills in Congress seek to dismantle parts of the Dodd-Frank Act, which President Obama signed a year ago Thursday. Business groups have argued that too many new regulations could snuff out the start of an economic recovery.
President Obama says he believes the battle is far from over.
''The financial crisis and the recession were not the result of normal economic cycles or just a run of bad luck,'' the president said Monday as he nominated a new director for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a centerpiece of the Dodd-Frank Act. ''There were abuses and there was a lack of smart regulations. So we're not just going to shrug our shoulders and hope it doesn't happen again.''
Mr. Obama's pick for the new bureau is Richard Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general.
It is not yet clear, however, that the forces fighting to preserve all the elements of Dodd-Frank will, in fact, win out. It is also not clear that Mr. Cordray will be confirmed by the Senate.
Senate Republicans are refusing to consider nominations for posts at several financial regulatory agencies. Lawmakers have taken aim at agencies for budget cuts. Administration officials say that banking and business lobbyists have spent more than $50 million this year to try to change the law, most of which has still not taken effect because regulators have not finished drawing up the new rules.
The forces arrayed against Mr. Obama are aptly demonstrated by his nomination of Mr. Cordray to head the consumer bureau. Mr. Cordray was hired as the bureau's director of enforcement several months ago by Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard law professor and bankruptcy expert whom Mr. Obama credited with giving him the idea for the agency.
While Ms. Warren has been working since September to prepare the agency for its July 21 opening, Republicans made clear that they did not want her appointed to a permanent position. A group of 44 Republican senators vowed they would not let any nomination come to a floor vote unless significant changes were made in the structure, power and scope of the consumer agency.
Bank lobbyists have called for structural changes, too, but they have also bemoaned the lack of a director for the agency. ''The absence of a confirmed director and the enormous powers of this new agency have created a time of great uncertainty for the retail banking industry,'' the Consumer Bankers Association, which represents retail banks, said Monday.
Uncertainty has long been the watchword for opponents of Dodd-Frank. When Mr. Obama signed the act last year, the United States Chamber of Commerce said it was ''a broad, sweeping bill'' that ''epitomizes a law with unintended consequences that creates more uncertainty for American businesses.''
Since then, the unemployment rate has remained high. But there are some other indications that investors, at least, have not been bothered by uncertainty or regulation. The Dow Jones industrial average is up more than 20 percent from a year ago, even after declining in the last few days. Indexes of small-company stocks are up more than 30 percent from last year at this time, and the market for initial public stock offerings, particularly for technology stocks, has been strong.
The Council of Institutional Investors, a lobbying group that represents pension and employee benefit funds, endowments and foundations, said Monday that the Dodd-Frank Act was ''a clear win for investors.''
''Excessive risk by Wall Street fueled the market meltdown that wiped out millions of U.S. jobs and billions in retirement savings,'' Ann Yerger, the council's executive director, said in a statement. ''The Dodd-Frank Act, if implemented as intended, will be a critical bulwark against such massive abuse of investors.''
David Hirschmann, a senior vice president at the Chamber of Commerce, said while investors might be sanguine about the long-term outlook, ''uncertainty among companies about the rules of the road is keeping a lot of capital on the sidelines.''
Several crucial financial issues remain to be resolved, including what is known as the Volcker Rule, a ban on banks trading for their own accounts. Rules governing the trading and processing of derivatives, the complex financial instruments that contributed to the difficulties of several banking and insurance companies, have yet to be completed.
On Monday, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which includes the top banking and financial regulators, approved one of a series of rules on how to determine whether financial institutions like stock markets and clearinghouses were ''systemically important'' to the financial system and subject to a higher level of oversight.
Bankers say they remain worried about whether tightened standards in this country will put them at a disadvantage as they try to expand overseas. Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said Monday that he shared a similar concern. ''Unless we have international consistency, we will not have a level playing field, we'll have opportunities for regulatory arbitrage and the entire reform process will not be effective.''
For Mr. Obama, continued opposition to changes in the law is a top priority, he said. ''There is an army of lobbyists and lawyers right now working to water down the protections and the reforms that we passed.'' He continued: ''They've got allies in Congress who are trying to undo the progress that we've made. We're not going to let that happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, left, chairman of the Federal Reserve, says he is concerned about the prospect of different financial standards in different countries. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner says the financial system is ''on more solid ground'' than in several years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); LOBBYING (69%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); RICHARD CORDRAY (71%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (71%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



680 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Obama Rates Higher in Debt Drama, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By MEGAN THEE-BRENAN

 BODY:
While Americans are closely divided over whether the debt ceiling should be raised, the public gives President Obama higher marks than Congressional Republicans for his handling of the negotiations, according to the latest CBS News poll. 
The number of Americans who say the debt ceiling should be raised has increased from 24 percent last month to 46 percent this month, the poll found. Currently, 49 percent say it should not be raised, down from 69 percent in June. Majorities of Democrats and those who are following the debate very closely support raising the ceiling.
Two-thirds of all Americans want an agreement to contain both spending cuts and tax increases, including majorities across party lines, and most would prefer that lawmakers reach an agreement, even if it's one respondents do not fully support, rather than have the United States default.
Americans are increasingly convinced that a severe downturn in the economy will result if the debt ceiling isn't raised. Yet they are skeptical that the United States will actually default on its debt if a deal isn't reached. A slim majority of Americans -- 51 percent, including majorities of Republicans and independents -- say the United States probably will not default in the absence of a deal.
There is no consensus on whether the Obama administration is accurately describing the consequences that could result from failing to raise the ceiling, with roughly an equal number saying Mr. Obama and his surrogates are making things sound worse than they and saying the administration is describing the situation accurately.
Despite their doubts, the public's faith in the president is stronger than in those he is negotiating with. Six in 10 Americans say Mr. Obama is really trying to find a solution, which is roughly the same number who say Republicans are not. Additionally, 49 percent of those polled blame Congressional Republicans for the budget standoff, while 29 percent blame the president.
Over all, 43 percent of Americans approve of President Obama's handling of the debt ceiling negotiations, but just half as many (21 percent) approve of Congressional Republicans, and 31 percent approve of Congressional Democrats.
As is typically the case in most debates between the president and Congress, the survey found taht most Americans would like to see compromise from all parties involved.
The public remains optimistic with a broad majority expecting an agreement by the Aug. 2 deadline.
The nationwide telephone survey was conducted Friday to Sunday with 810 adults, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); DEBT CEILING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



681 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: In Debt Crisis, a Legislative Trick Up the Sleeve

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With Republicans and Democrats still deeply divided over how to shrink the budget deficit and the national debt, the only way for them to avoid a financial crisis at this late date may be to perform a legislative magic trick.
The idea, conjured by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, would allow Republicans to accede to an increase in the government's debt limit without actually voting for it or giving in to President Obama's demand for tax increases as part of any deal. 
It would give the White House a way out of the box that it is in and avert a potential deeper blow to the economy. And it would allow Democrats to head into an election year having backed substantial spending cuts without having, so far, buckled to pressure to bite into the entitlement programs that represent core values to many liberal voters.
That, at least, is the goal of the approach offered last week by Mr. McConnell, who continued to work with Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic majority leader, on Monday to refine their fallback proposal even as the parties exchanged fire leading up to coming floor fights in the House and Senate over a Republican deficit-reduction plan. The Senate leaders are developing cuts and other deficit-reduction provisions to provide some lubricant to pass the measure, which has been ridiculed by many Republicans as a slick effort to dodge accountability.
While negotiations continued, House and Senate Republicans plan to focus their energy this week on the so-called cut, cap and balance proposal embraced by conservatives. It would reduce spending next year by more than $100 billion, cap future spending based as a percentage of the economy and require a balanced-budget amendment to be approved by Congress and sent to the states for ratification before the debt limit could be increased.
Before the House debate scheduled for Tuesday even began, the administration issued a veto threat on behalf of Mr. Obama, who on Sunday had a private meeting at the White House with the two top House Republicans -- Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader.
''The bill would undercut the federal government's ability to meet its core commitments to seniors, middle-class families and the most vulnerable, while reducing our ability to invest in our future,'' the White House said in a statement. It said the measure ''would set unrealistic spending caps that could result in significant cuts to education, research and development, and other programs critical to growing our economy and winning the future.''
Mr. Cantor said the president was being too hasty in his dismissal of the legislation and called the Republican plan a ''common sense'' proposal to ''ensure that Washington begins to live within its means and put in place a constitutional balanced-budget amendment that will make balancing our budget the rule, not the exception.''
The measure has little to no chance of approval in the Senate. Still, Republicans hope that enabling the rank and file to vent their frustration and vote for the deficit-cutting plan could clear the air and also clear the way for moving forward with the McConnell plan should no suitable alternative proposal surface.
Mr. McConnell's proposal would essentially flip the current process on its head by calling on Congress to disapprove rather than approve an administration request for a debt limit increase. It would then allow the president to veto the disapproval if it clears Congress, allowing the debt limit to be raised to avoid a default, assuming the veto could be sustained.
The plan also calls for a special Congressional commission to be created that would recommend future spending cuts and policy changes that lawmakers and the White House could then show to the financial markets as evidence that the government intended to get its fiscal problems under control.
Officials knowledgeable about the talks say that the Senate leaders are also negotiating a package of spending cuts that would be attached to the McConnell plan, though perhaps not until it reaches the House. That package would reduce discretionary federal spending by $1.1 trillion over 10 years, take about $200 billion out of programs like federal pensions and agricultural subsidies and save another $200 billion in interest payments.
In order to limit the ability of conservative Republicans to filibuster the McConnell measure, the plan could be attached to a resolution on deficit cutting being considered in the Senate, saving some time given the approach of the Aug. 2 deadline set by Treasury for raising the ceiling.
The bill would still face multiple procedural challenges. And even if it were to pass and create the new process for approving the debt limit increase, Congress would still have to engage in another round of votes on the disapproval of the debt limit increase and a likely veto. But approval of the initial legislation would trigger immediate approval of a $100 billion increase in the debt limit to forestall a crisis should the disapproval and veto process not be complete by Aug. 2.
Since the biggest problem facing the legislation right now is the resistance of House Republicans, the Senate leaders are planning to let the House add the spending cuts into the package as a way to draw support. Even if nearly all House Democrats agreed to back the proposal to avoid a default, dozens of Republicans still must support it to get it across the finish line.
Republicans officials, far from confident that the McConnell plan could clear the House, suggested Monday that the spending package being put together in the Senate might not be enough to win over Republicans who have insisted on a dollar of cuts for every dollar of increase in the federal debt limit.
With the president continuing to barter with the House Republican leadership, the McConnell legislation, through the creation of the Congressional commission, could also conceivably be used as a way to enact any compromise Mr. Obama could reach on more far-reaching deficit-reduction proposals or tax law changes.
''We're making progress,'' the president told reporters after an event Monday.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Tuesday with an article about legislative maneuvers used in the federal budget debate misstated the date that the photograph of four Republican senators was taken. It was July 6, not Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Senators Mitch McConnell, Lamar Alexander, John Barrasso and John Thune, all Republicans, on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DEBT CEILING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); FAMILY (69%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (88%); JOHN THUNE (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



682 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Choice to Lead Consumer Bureau Shows an Aggressive Streak

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Richard Cordray, President Obama's pick to lead the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, is no stranger to Wall Street.
As Ohio's attorney general during the fallout from the financial crisis, Mr. Cordray undertook a series of prominent lawsuits against big names in the finance world, including Bank of America. After narrowly losing re-election in late 2010, he came to Washington to lead the bureau's enforcement efforts.
By then, Mr. Cordray was already known for his aggressive streak. 
''There's a belief here that Wall Street is a fixed casino and it's back in business, and we're left holding the bag,'' Mr. Cordray, then speaking from his office as Ohio's attorney general, told The New York Times last year. ''It's important for us to show we'll go after a company that does wrong.''
Mr. Obama, when introducing Mr. Cordray to the media at the White House on Monday, reinforced the nominee's image as a reformer, praising his past efforts to tackle ''unscrupulous lenders.''
Wall Street has been largely silent about Mr. Cordray's appointment, with few financial trade groups willing to say anything much publicly about him.
The Consumer Bankers Association used the event to provide a broader attack of the bureau. ''As we have stated repeatedly, we would prefer to see the bureau run by a commission'' like other agencies, it said in a statement, ''even the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which was the model for the creation of the C.F.P.B.''
Others treaded more lightly. ''We look forward to a productive opportunity to engage with the new leadership of the C.F.P.B.,'' said David H. Stevens, president and chief executive of the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Behind closed doors, some industry officials questioned whether life under Mr. Cordray would be easier than it would have been if Mr. Obama chose Elizabeth Warren to lead the bureau. Mr. Cordray was one of the first people recruited to the bureau by Ms. Warren, the Harvard professor and consumer advocate who has been setting up the fledgling agency.
As far as Wall Street is concerned, Ms. Warren and Mr. Cordray are philosophically aligned on most issues. While Ms. Warren conducted a lengthy charm campaign, meeting with bankers from every state to subdue some criticism, Mr. Cordray spent the last several months deciding which types of enforcement cases to pursue against the industry.
Here is a look at some cases that made Mr. Cordray, as Ohio's attorney general, the Midwestern sheriff of Wall Street.
CREDIT RATING AGENCIES
While federal officials issued reports chiding the nation's top credit rating agencies, Mr. Cordray took them to court. In 2009, he sued the firms, saying that they awarded top grades to troubled mortgage-backed securities and also were ''intimately involved in structuring'' the investments. The products, he said, caused retirement funds to lose hundreds of millions of dollars. The suit is still pending.
''The rating agencies' total disregard for the life's work of ordinary Ohioans caused the collapse of our housing and credit markets and is at the heart of what's wrong with Wall Street today,'' he said at the time.
GMAC
Last fall, Mr. Cordray became one of the first attorneys general to take action in the nationwide investigation of wrongful foreclosures. His target was GMAC Mortgage and its parent, Ally Financial. Mr. Cordray sued the firms, arguing that they had used bogus paperwork to foreclose on homes. He sought to collect up to $25,000 for each foreclosure.
''It's now becoming clear that fraud, deception and an utter disregard for accuracy are in part to blame for the national foreclosure disaster,'' he said at the time. The suit is pending.
A.I.G.: One of Mr. Cordray's biggest wins came against the American International Group and its former top executives, whom he accused of accounting fraud. He secured about $700 million from the insurer and a $115 million from its former chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg.
MERRILL LYNCH
In 2008, his office sued Merrill Lynch on behalf of the state's teacher pension funds. Mr. Cordray said that Merrill had artificially inflated its stock price, which fell after the bank had losses on subprime mortgages. Merrill settled for $475 million.
He later led a multistate lawsuit against Bank of America over its takeover of Merrill. ''The amount of shareholder value affected here, negatively, is about as great as has been alleged in any case, ever,'' Mr. Cordray said at the time about the suit, which is also pending.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Cordray, right, was introduced Monday by President Obama as the nominee to lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary, and Elizabeth Warren, who set up the agency, attended. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); SHERIFFS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (62%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (91%); CONSUMER BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



683 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: The Road Not Taken

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Over the past months, Republicans enjoyed enormous advantages. Opinion polls showed that voters are eager to reduce the federal debt, and they want to do it mostly but not entirely through spending cuts.
There was a Democratic president eager to move to the center. He floated certain ideas that would be normally unheard of from a Democrat. According to widespread reports, White House officials talked about raising the Medicare eligibility age, cutting Social Security by changing the inflation index, freezing domestic discretionary spending and offering to pre-empt the end of the Bush tax cuts in exchange for a broad tax-reform process.
The Democratic offers were slippery, and President Obama didn't put them in writing. But John Boehner, the House speaker, thought they were serious. The liberal activists thought they were alarmingly serious. I can tell you from my reporting that White House officials took them seriously. 
The combined effect would have been to reduce the size of government by $3 trillion over a decade. That's a number roughly three times larger than the cost of the Obama health care law. It also would have brutally fractured the Democratic Party.
But the Republican Party decided not to pursue this deal, or even seriously consider it. Instead what happened was this: Conservatives told themselves how steadfast they were being for a few weeks. Then morale crumbled.
This week, Republicans will probably pass a balanced budget Constitutional amendment that has zero chance of becoming law. Then they may end up clinging to a no mas Senate compromise. This proposal would pocket cuts that have already been agreed on, and it would eliminate leverage for future cuts and make them less likely.
It could be that this has been a glorious moment in Republican history. It could be that having persuaded independents that they are a prudent party, Republicans will sweep the next election. Controlling the White House and Congress, perhaps they will have the guts to cut Medicare unilaterally, reform the welfare state and herald in an era of conservative greatness.
But it's much more likely that Republicans will come to regret this missed opportunity. So let us pause to identify the people who decided not to seize the chance to usher in the largest cut in the size of government in American history. They fall into a few categories:
The Beltway Bandits. American conservatism now has a rich network of Washington interest groups adept at arousing elderly donors and attracting rich lobbying contracts. For example, Grover Norquist of Americans for Tax Reform has been instrumental in every recent G.O.P. setback. He was a Newt Gingrich strategist in the 1990s, a major Jack Abramoff companion in the 2000s and he enforced the no-compromise orthodoxy that binds the party today.
Norquist is the Zelig of Republican catastrophe. His method is always the same. He enforces rigid ultimatums that make governance, or even thinking, impossible.
The Big Government Blowhards. The talk-radio jocks are not in the business of promoting conservative governance. They are in the business of building an audience by stroking the pleasure centers of their listeners.
They mostly give pseudo Crispin's Day speeches to battalions of the like-minded from the safety of the conservative ghetto. To keep audience share, they need to portray politics as a cataclysmic, Manichaean struggle. A series of compromises that steadily advance conservative aims would muddy their story lines and be death to their ratings.
The Show Horses. Republicans now have a group of political celebrities who are marvelously uninterested in actually producing results. Sarah Palin and Michele Bachmann produce tweets, not laws. They have created a climate in which purity is prized over practicality.
The Permanent Campaigners. For many legislators, the purpose of being in Congress is not to pass laws. It's to create clear contrasts you can take into the next election campaign. It's not to take responsibility for the state of the country and make it better. It's to pass responsibility onto the other party and force them to take as many difficult votes as possible.
All of these groups share the same mentality. They do not see politics as the art of the possible. They do not believe in seizing opportunities to make steady, messy progress toward conservative goals. They believe that politics is a cataclysmic struggle. They believe that if they can remain pure in their faith then someday their party will win a total and permanent victory over its foes. They believe they are Gods of the New Dawn.
Fortunately, there are still practical conservatives in the G.O.P., who believe in results, who believe in intelligent compromise. If people someday decide the events of the past weeks have been a debacle, then practical conservatives may regain control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NEW ISSUES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); TAX REFORM (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); HISTORY (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); INFLATION (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



684 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Gannett Newspaper Revenue Falls 6.5% in Weak Ad Climate

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
In the latest sign that the industry has yet to recover from an advertising slump, quarterly profit and revenue at the newspaper company Gannett fell.
Gannett, the largest newspaper chain in the United States, said Monday that total revenue was down 2.2 percent to $1.33 billion in the second quarter. The figure was in line with the average analyst forecast, according to Thomson Reuters. 
Gannett, which publishes USA Today, 81 other daily newspapers and nearly 1,000 weekly newspapers, said ad revenue at its newspapers dropped 6.5 percent to $646.9 million as retail, automotive and national advertisers pulled back on their spending.
Advertising revenue this quarter is ''getting off to the same start'' as the second quarter, Gracia Martore, president and chief operating officer of Gannett, said in a conference call.
The company also doubled its quarterly dividend and reinstated its $1 billion share buyback.
Gannett posted a profit of $151.5 million, or 62 cents a share, compared with $195.5 million, or 73 cents a share a year earlier.
Excluding costs for facility closings and job cuts and a net tax benefit, Gannett posted a profit of 58 cents a share, beating analysts' forecast by a penny.
Gannett cut 2 percent of its work force, or 700 employees, at its American newspaper division in June, citing a sputtering economic recovery weighing down national and local advertising.
Derek Maupin, research analyst at Hodges Capital management, which holds shares in Gannett, is slightly concerned about Gannett's print advertising but believe shares are still undervalued at its current price. He cited increases in other segments like broadcasting revenue.
At the company's broadcast division, total revenue inched up to $184.4 million compared with $184 million in the same quarter a year ago.
TV revenue was up slightly to $177.7 million and the company forecast the percentage decline in the third quarter to be in the midsingle digits.
Digital advertising rose almost 13 percent to $173.4 million, the company said.
The company doubled its dividend to 8 cents a share. It expects to repurchase $100 million in shares over the next 12 months, as part of the $1 billion share buyback originally approved five years ago.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 2011 Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A Reuters article on Tuesday about quarterly earnings at Gannett, the media company, referred imprecisely to the number of newspapers it publishes. It publishes USA Today, 81 other daily newspapers and nearly 1,000 weekly newspapers; it does not publish only 81 newspapers in addition to USA Today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DIVIDENDS (73%); APPROVALS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); CLOSINGS (52%)

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (98%)

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%)

PERSON: GRACIA MARTORE (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



685 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M., Helped by Sales of New Mainframes, Beats Analysts' 2nd-Quarter Forecasts

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M., which turned 100 last month, delivered better-than-expected quarterly results Monday that showed the old company had a lot of life in it.
The company got a lift from robust sales of new models of mainframes -- I.B.M.'s heritage -- while its biggest current businesses, software and services, generated healthy growth as well.
The company reported an 8 percent increase in net income, to $3.7 billion. Its operating profits per share rose 18 percent, to $3.09 a share, reflecting fewer shares outstanding because of I.B.M. stock buyback programs. Bolstered by the strong performance, I.B.M. raised its guidance for earnings for the full year, to ''at least $13.25 a share'' from the previous level of ''at least $13.15 a share.'' 
Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, said in a statement that the results were evidence that the company's long-term investments to generate growth were paying off. Those growth initiatives include large investments to build up business in fast-developing markets outside the United States and Western Europe, and acquiring companies that specialize in analyzing vast amounts of corporate and online data for insights that can increase sales and trim costs.
The financial results, on a per-share basis, compared with analysts' consensus estimate of $3.03 a share, as compiled by Thomson Reuters. In the year-earlier quarter, I.B.M. reported earnings of $2.61 a share.
Revenue grew 12 percent to $26.7 billion, up from $23.7 billion in the comparable quarter last year. The sales gain was helped by currency gains, as a weaker dollar translated to higher revenue from business overseas. Excluding the currency gains, revenue rose 5 percent. The average revenue estimate of Wall Street analysts was $25.3 billion.
I.B.M.'s stock price rose $3.20 a share at one point, or nearly 2 percent, in after-hours trading. During regular trading hours, the company's shares slipped 26 cents a share, to close at $175.28 a share. In the last year, I.B.M. shares have gained more than 35 percent in value.
In his statement, Mr. Palmisano noted the company's 100-year milestone. ''As I.B.M. begins its second century,'' he said, ''we continue a process of transformation, positioning the company to lead in the future.''
In recent years, I.B.M. has pursued a business model intended to achieve revenue growth of roughly 4 to 6 percent, while reaching earnings growth per share in the low double digits. Share buybacks and constant efficiency improvements, the company says, make the higher earnings possible.
''It's a very good quarter for I.B.M., with strong revenue growth by its standard and impressive profits,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''The company continues to deliver on its model.''
I.B.M. is the largest supplier to businesses of information technology -- computer hardware, software and services. So its performance tends to reflect broader trends in corporate spending, and I.B.M.'s performance in the second quarter is a reassuring sign of business investment.
In the wider economy, consumer spending is soft and hiring weak, but private corporate investment has been robust -- and spending on information technology represents more than half of all business capital investment. IDC, a research firm, estimated last month that business and government investment in information technology in the United States would grow at 5.6 percent this year, well ahead of the growth of the overall economy.
Gartner, a research firm, recently raised its forecast for the growth in global information technology spending in 2011 to 7.1 percent, up from 5.6 percent, a projection made a few months earlier.
Analysts say companies are investing in technology to automate business operations, like ordering supplies and tracking customers. Such investments, they say, typically have a quick payoff and are less risky in uncertain economic times than hiring new workers.
Company financial reports for the second quarter are just getting under way, but the quarter should be a strong one for the technology industry, based on analysts' estimates. The 74 technology companies among the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index are expected to report profit growth of 12 percent, notes John Butters, an analyst for FactSet Research.
That is the third-highest growth rate among the 10 industry sectors in the index, trailing only the more cyclical industries like basic materials, which includes commodities like aluminum, steel and chemicals, and energy, which is dominated by the big oil companies.
For all of 2011, technology companies in the S.& P. 500 are forecast to deliver total profits of $182 billion, more than any other sector, Mr. Butters said.
I.B.M.'s big services business grew 10 percent to $15.1 billion, though that was only 2 percent after excluding currency gains. Still, new signings at $14.3 billion were higher than most analysts' estimates. New contracts, which can stretch over years, are a gauge of future business. In the previous few quarters, the pace of new contracts signed had been sluggish, raising some concerns among analysts.
Today, mainframes are a small part of I.B.M.'s business, but in new-product cycles they can add a jolt to profits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



686 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: The Nagging Effect: Better Health for Married Men

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE


HIGHLIGHT: Relationship researchers have long known that marriage is associated with better health, particularly for men. The reason? It appears that wives take on the role of caregiver, setting up doctor appointments and reminding, even nagging, their husbands to go.

 BODY:
Relationship researchers have long known that marriage is associated with better health, particularly for men. One reason is that wives often take on the role of caregiver, setting up doctor appointments and reminding, even nagging, their husbands to go.
The notion that a nagging effect leads to better health for men is bolstered by new research showing that among heart attack victims, married men arrive at the hospital soonest.
On average, married heart attack victims arrived at the hospital half an hour sooner than those who were not married. But when the researchers analyzed the data separately for men and women, they found that while married men were more than 60 percent less likely to arrive late than their single peers, there was no statistically significant difference between married and single women.
Even when a man is not experiencing troubling symptoms like chest pains, it is not uncommon for a wife to begin pushing her husband to visit the doctor long before a man thinks he needs to go.
Wives are in a unique position to persuade their husbands to seek medical care. Women are far more likely to have a personal physician than men. And even when prenatal visits and trips to the pediatrician are excluded, women are still twice as likely as men to visit the doctor. As a result, they have more regular access to physicians and often use their visits to throw in a few extra questions about husbands and family members or seek a referral for a family member.
And because erectile function is an important barometer of a man's health, a wife often is the first to notice changes that could signal a health problem like heart disease or diabetes. 
A few years ago, I interviewed a San Jose, Calif., couple, Phil and Rachael Starke. Phil was putting off a doctor's visit, but Rachael insisted, enlisting the help of their child's pediatrician and scheduling appointments. Finally, Phil did see a doctor and learned he had diabetes. Later, he conceded that he owed his health to his wife.
"There's an old Jimmy Buffet song where he tells his girlfriend, 'You treat your body like a temple. I treat my body like a tent.' It gets back to the value of marriage. If I had been a single man without someone deeply involved in my life, I'm not sure what would have happened. For lack of a better word, I was nagged into doing something.''
Read the full report on married men and heart attacks, "Faster Treatment for the Married Man.'' And for more research on the link between marriage and health, read my story from the New York Times Magazine, "Is Marriage Good for Your Health?'' Then please join the discussion below.

        
Sex and the Long-Term Relationship
        
For Some, a Recession-Proof Marriage
        
The Sustainable-Marriage Quiz
        
Attention Disorders Can Take a Toll on Marriage
        
Seeking to Pre-empt Marital Strife

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); PEDIATRICS (87%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); MEN (78%); FAMILY (78%); STATISTICS (76%); DIABETES (68%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) marriage; Love Well

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



687 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Times Topics)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Eponymous Sources

BYLINE: PHILIP B. CORBETT


HIGHLIGHT: My regular diatribes notwithstanding, misuse of the adjective "eponymous" is so widespread, in The Times and elsewhere, that continued resistance may be futile.

 BODY:
Notes from the newsroom on grammar, usage and style. (Some frequently asked questions are here.)
My regular diatribes notwithstanding, misuse of the adjective "eponymous" is so widespread, in The Times and elsewhere, that continued resistance may be futile. But here's one more salvo before I raise the white flag and move on.
In precise, traditional usage, an "eponym" is someone or something that gives its name to something else. So "eponymous" describes the giver of the name, NOT the receiver. A restaurateur named Joe Smith could be described as the eponymous owner of Joe Smith's Restaurant, but the establishment is not "Mr. Smith's eponymous restaurant."
(The opposite problem often occurs with "namesake." That word properly describes the receiver of the name - a grandchild may be the namesake of her grandmother, but not the other way around.)
A handful of recent lapses:
The familiar verbal effluvia of the patent medicine industry clutter some early posters. ... Dr. Trikos, purveyor of an eponymous lotion for irritations of the skin and baldness, summarized it all eloquently: "I have cured myself, I have cured my friends, and I wish to cure all who suffer.'' 
If we must use the word - but must we? - we could say "the eponymous purveyor of a lotion ..."
[Caption] TALENT: Chefs, clockwise, from top left, Ferran Adria and his team at El Bulli; Quique Dacosta at his eponymous restaurant; Carme Ruscalleda at Sant Pau and Nandu Jubany at Can Jubany.
"Eponymous restaurant" occurs repeatedly. But it's almost certain to be wrong, since it's unlikely that a restaurant would give its name to a person or region, rather than the other way around.
Unlike the heroes of the American Revolution, whose experiences Mr. McCullough has already addressed so well, these travelers did not necessarily have diplomatic business in France. They had sights to see, minds to broaden, effusions to emit ("My mind was smitten with a feeling of sublimity almost too intense for mortality,'' gushed Emma Willard, who would eventually found her eponymous school in upstate New York) and journals to fill with ecstatic observations about the Louvre, the cuisine and the weather.
As often, the word here seems unnecessary as well as misused.
Other eponymous restaurants have survived beyond their namesakes. Think Peter Luger. Mickey Mantle's. Sardi's. 
Wrong on both ends. Perhaps: "Other restaurants have outlived the owners whose names they bear."
Eponymous but Extraneous
In this case, the word is used correctly. But to what end? Delete it and nothing changes:
That same month, Toronto-Dominion struck a $6.3 billion deal for Chrysler Financial, the former lending arm of the eponymous car maker. 
And While We're at It ...
This may also be in the losing-battle category, but I refuse to surrender on the "beg the question" question. This very precise and useful phrase does NOT mean "raise the question" or "present the question" or "seem to skirt the question." It refers to a logically faulty argument that is based on assuming the very thing one is trying to prove.
The latest lapse:
Of course, conclusions like "no detrimental effect" or "did not have an adverse effect" are not ringing endorsements of static stretching and beg the obvious question: if brief stretches aren't bad for us, are they actively good?
These conclusions "raise" or "prompt" the obvious question. They do not "beg" the question.
In a Word
This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.
After the news broke last fall about the archaeological treasure trove, his school built a mastodon model to scale, 12 feet tall at the shoulder - and Mr. Faison said the first and second graders he teaches shared his awe.As a reader pointed out, this trove of fossils is not an "archaeological" trove, since archaeology by definition deals with the human past.
Neither the country's election authorities nor the international community have recognized the court's authority, and the prospect of now having to give up their seats has enraged a large bloc of the current 249-seat Parliament. ...
The scene might appear to be merely political opera, but the situation has reached a point where it is difficult to see a way out that would be acceptable both to the members of Parliament and Mr. Karzai.
In a neither/nor subject construction, the verb should agree with the nearer element; make it "has recognized," or recast. In the second sentence, the both/and construction is not parallel, since "both" is followed by a prepositional phrase and "and" is not.
Father Vitaglione's central role in the immigration courts, as well as the repercussions from his recent banishment, point to the deep dysfunction in the system in New York and across the country.
As we've noted before, phrases like "as well as," "coupled with" and "along with" are parenthetical and do not make the subject plural. Make it "Father Vitaglione's central role ... points to," or revise.
In a sign that jurors had little difficulty reaching a verdict, the jury did not ask to review any evidence and reached a decision in fewer than 11 hours. 
The extent of time, not the actual number of hours, is what's significant. Make it "less than 11 hours."
LENOX, Mass.- James Levine has long been a mainstay of Tanglewood, though he will not appear at the Boston Symphony Orchestra's summer home this season; shortly after resigning as the ensemble's music director in March Mr. Levine cancelled all engagements here.
One "l" is our style in "canceled."
[Subheading] Recipe: Cold Boiled Chicken a la Chinois
Make it "Chinoise." And remember: if it's French, it's probably wrong, so look it up again.
[Op-Ed] And it's in this context that hard-line conservatives cling to the notion of American exceptionalism. They can't shut out what's in their peripheral vision - economies in China, India and Brazil that are expanding much faster than ours - and doth protest too much.
Literary allusion or not, if we're using Elizabethan English, it should be grammatical. "Doth" is third-person singular, not plural.
This seemed like a strong argument, but I soon learned that Taylor was getting a lot of flack from other distinguished economists such as Richard Grossman and Paul Krugman.
It's slang and a bit of a cliche, and more to the point, it's spelled "flak."
[Headline] Journalist Suspended From MSNBC for Profane Disparagement of President
[Text] Mr. Halperin's profane remark seemed to demonstrate how the show's formula can strain.
In careful usage, the anatomical slang in question is best characterized as "vulgar"; "profane" normally suggests religious oaths.
I recognized the day. It's the one that's inconceivable in mid-winter. It's also the one in which mid-winter itself is inconceivable - an antipodal day. The entrances to the hives were yellow with pollen rubbed off as the bees came and went, jodphured with the stuff.
A rare enough word to warrant looking up every time. If we had done so, we would have spelled it correctly: "jodhpured." (Also, the dictionary and the stylebook both say "midwinter," no hyphen.)
In the wild, male polar bears tend to be loners, who wander long distances through sketchy weather and over shape-shifting ice, with drifting pack ice as home. They go with the floe. But for 24 years, Ida was a pal with whom Gus cavorted and related to in countless ursine ways.
The play on "floe" and the use of "ursine" might be delightfully clever or a bit precious, according to one's taste. But the prepositional phrases here are a mess and needed recasting.
There are few things in life more doleful than a child looking at a closed pool on a steamy summer day, and yet that sad scene has become as common as sunburns and mosquito bites as cash-strapped local governments make the painful choice to shut the pool to save the budget.
The stylebook cautions that this expression is colloquial -- and, when it includes "cash," redundant.
HAMPTON, N.H. - For much of this year, Mitt Romney has laid low, seeking to reap the benefits of being the presumed front-runner in the race for the Republican presidential nomination (strong fund-raising, positive polling) without suffering the downsides (intensive news media scrutiny, endless shelling from rivals).
The expression is "to lie low," so the perfect tense should be "has lain low."
Darwinian-minded analysts argue that Homo sapiens have an innate distaste for hierarchical extremes, the legacy of our long nomadic prehistory as tightly knit bands living by veldt-ready team-building rules: the belief in fairness and reciprocity, a capacity for empathy and impulse control, and a willingness to work cooperatively in ways that even our smartest primate kin cannot match.
"Homo sapiens" is singular, not plural.
After Deadline examines questions of grammar, usage and style encountered by writers and editors of The Times. It is adapted from a weekly newsroom critique overseen by Philip B. Corbett, the associate managing editor for standards, who is also in charge of The Times's style manual.

        
A Plague of Danglers 
        
Commas? Sure, Throw a Few In
        
Subject, Meet Verb 
        
Parallel Problems 
        
Bright Passages 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%) After Deadline; Grammar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (52%) FRANCE (69%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



688 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Trusting Families to Help Themselves

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: To give support to struggling families without prescribing solutions requires respect and discipline.

 BODY:
On Friday, I reported on the Family Independence Initiative (F.I.I.), an organization that encourages low-income families to define their own goals and work towards them in mutual support groups, while carefully documenting their successes. (F.I.I. pays modest stipends for the research data provided by families.). So far, the few hundred families that F.I.I. has worked with have demonstrated impressive gains in areas like income and savings, debt reduction, skills training, and improvements in children's grades and health care.
Many readers found F.I.I.'s approach promising. Dinah Lord, from Stanford, Calif. (8), wrote: "[It] sounds like F.I.I. has adopted a transformative perspective instead of a deficit perspective." Ruanne, from Arkansas (42), added that the work represented a "great balance between two long-standing American traditions: hard work and community." And Jon N. from Salinas, Kans. (34), added: "This method seems to form self-reinforcing community bonds that allow people to motivate and help one another. This is a brilliant paradigm for the future of welfare."One of the things that distinguishes F.I.I.'s work from most programs designed to help struggling families is the way it creates a context that allows families to discover their individual and collective strengths and act upon them. To this end, F.I.I.'s staff members are not permitted to offer any advice or guidance to families.
Several readers commented on the respectfulness of this approach - as well as the discipline required to carry it out. MAL, from San Antonio (16), wrote: "As an educator, I can fall into the temptation of trying to provide a correct answer too quickly, and then watch my advice not get followed. This program shows that it's possible to strike a balance between providing guidance and letting people find answers within themselves." And M. Rosaldo from Berkeley, Calif. (46), wrote that the idea of "preventing staff from offering advice is counterintuitive and brilliant," adding, "I'm curious about examples of social change organizations that employ similar approaches in other fields."
One of them is the Grameen Bank, the Nobel Prize winning microlender, which trains its staff not to suggest business ideas to borrowers. "The Grameen Bank has lots of money but it has no ideas," the bank's founder Muhammad Yunus has instructed his staff to tell borrowers who solicit advice.
Both Yunus and F.I.I.'s founder Maurice Lim Miller believe that the rise out of poverty comes when people take control and make choices. That process can be circumvented by professionals who would step in too quickly to prescribe solutions for others.
One reader, Balleria, from Minneapolis (44), asked about "the challenges that F.I.I. has faced." When I posed the question to Lim Miller, he replied: "This model can be corrupted very quickly because it's so hard for people who want to be actively helpful to actually back off and be secondary. This issue of trusting the families, believing that ultimately they are going to do something, is probably one of the hardest things for people to get used to."
He gave an example of how F.I.I. interacts with families. A woman called the office because she had had a car accident and wanted the F.I.I. staff to recommend a lawyer. "The first thing we do is push it back to her and her community," explained Lim Miller. "We asked, 'Are there other people you know who have had car accidents? Do you know any of them who got an attorney and were successful?'" The woman couldn't think of anyone. After a while, she said, "Oh, I babysit for an attorney! And he's always feeling guilty because he comes home later than he says he will." She decided that she could ask him for a referral. The only comment the F.I.I. staff made was to remind her to ask him if she could use his name. "That's how things work in middle class communities," they said. In the future, if anyone in this woman's circle needs an attorney, they'll go to her.
Social service professionals tend to overlook strengths. Lim Miller recalled when F.I.I. was preparing to work in Boston. He was in a meeting with people from local foundations and service agencies who were talking about a tough area of Boston. "The schools are bad, there's all this institutional racism, there's drug use, there's police brutality, there's poverty, and there have been millions of dollars thrown at the problems," he said. "And they're saying, 'Fifty percent of the kids in this community don't graduate from high school. What are we going to do about it?'" His reply was: "With all those problems, 50 percent still graduating from high school? What are they doing differently from everyone else? We should be talking to them."
This approach - focusing on what's going right and building upon it - has been called "positive deviance" and was systematized by Jerry and Monique Sternin, a couple who worked with Save the Children in Vietnam in the 1990s. The Sternins helped villagers teach one another strategies that reduced malnutrition by 85 percent within two years. Positive deviance harnesses ideas that are self-generated within communities. In Vietnam, villagers identified families with the healthiest children and examined what they were doing. (They had adopted uncommon practices, such as collecting nutritious foods that were not usually given to children and washing their children's hands before meals.) Positive deviance has been successfully applied to address many problems around the world.
"We look for positive deviance from families we think are very typical," explained Lim Miller. When a seemingly ordinary person deviates from the norm and succeeds, it creates a change in expectations that ripples out, he said.
Looking ahead Lim Miller's goal is to expand F.I.I. and use it as a platform to change "the way the nation views and values low-income families." "I think over the next three to five years, we'll need about $8 to $10 million to reach thousands of families in multiple communities," he says.
To grow its work with integrity, F.I.I. is enlisting leaders from families -people like Maria Perez, from San Francisco, who is one of F.I.I.'s paid "Fellows." Perez and her husband, on income of about $40,000, patched together savings, scholarships and financial aid, to send six of their children to private Catholic schools. They battled the city of San Francisco and won the right to send a daughter with cerebral palsy to a public school in another municipality because it has superior special education classes.
The process turned Perez into a resourceful advocate. Now, F.I.I. is enlisting her talents. In Boston, she turned out to be their most effective spokesperson, convincing even the most skeptical men to join. Lim Miller envisions fellows like Perez playing a leading role in the expansion, encouraging families and training and monitoring staff members.
Many readers noted that families should have more access to investment capital. F.I.I. aims to highlight policies that could support family-led initiatives - such as microloans, scholarships, Individual Development Accounts, and simplified business licenses. On a family basis, the program saves more money for the government than F.I.I. pays out in stipends - largely because families that do better receive lower tax credits. "The art is to bring in resources so that they are available to families, but in a way that is demand driven, not prescribed," says Lim Miller.
They are also building a system so low-income families can rate social service programs the way customers rate restaurants on sites like Yelp. If foundations and government agencies began using customer rankings as a criteria when allocating funding to social service programs - that is, if working poor families got to shape the services they needed to get ahead - it would represent a major, and radical, step forward.

        
Out of Poverty, Family-Style
        
No Food Safety in These Numbers
        
The Other
        
A Bittersweet Christmas Story
        
Home for Life

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MICROFINANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) community; debt; families; Family Independence Initiative; investment; positive deviance; Economic Conditions and Trends; Families and Family Life; Income; Fixes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); SALINAS, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



689 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
The Economist: Food stamps are putting dramatically more meals on the American table. Thanks to rising unemployment, participation has gone up 30 percent over five years, to one in seven Americans. Yet in the congressional budget debate, opponents seek 20 percent cuts, saying the program is unsustainable. -- Glenn Collins 
Slate: The Michelin guide is losing more than $20 million a year, and a consultant brought in last year said the company needed to change rapidly or risk becoming a forgotten relic in the digital age. Via Eater. -- Nick Fox
The New York Times: Jane Brody looks at the latest research on losing weight. Good news for yogurt and nuts. More bad news for potato chips. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Decanter: Already beset by problems, the sherry industry faces another: a possible strike by cellar workers. -- Eric Asimov
Parla Food: Excellent advice on how to judge an Italian gelateria. The rules apply stateside, too: the words "homemade" or "artisanal" in signage don't mean much. -- Julia Moskin
The Guardian: Chechnya is banning the sale of Red Bull, calling it un-Islamic. -- Nick Fox
Adweek: Ongoing debate about proposed government guidelines that could prevent a variety of food products from being advertised to children. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Bloomberg: Eight teams from top business schools and universities compete over esoteric wine knowledge and tasting skills. Elin McCoy was there. -- Eric Asimov 
The Wall Street Journal: Ladle of Love, one of four trucks at the food court by the former Tavern on the Green, has ended its $100,000 contract with the city, saying business is good only for about three months a year. -- Nick Fox
The New York Times: Maria Rodale, the publishing executive and advocate for all things organic, admits to being spotted once chowing down on non-organic potato chips in an Iowa airport. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Wall Street Journal: Jay McInerney on the great white wines of Meursault: he loves the 2008 vintage, but fears the continuing knotty issue of premature oxidation. -- Eric Asimov
Eater: A wine scene ferments in Chicago, Talia Baiocchi reports. Hot now, according to its sommeliers: the Jura, orange wines, cool-climate whites, Txacoli and (of course) malbec and dry rose. -- Eric Asimov 
Mowielicious: Having eaten my fill of this summer's pale, seedless watermelons, these treats from a London-based photographer/cook were all the more satisfying. Scroll down to the starfruit-watermelon plate. -- Julia Moskin
Bloomberg Businessweek: Dunkin' Donuts, the video: to pay down debt and spruce up its balance sheet, the coffee chain's Dunkin' Brands Group Inc. seeks to raise $460 million in an initial public offering. -- Glenn Collins
Elizabeth Minchilli in Rome: Ever have one of those days when you're just totally craving a veal-spleen sandwich? -- Jeff Gordinier Details: Deconstructing how they make the burgers, layer by layer, at the Love Shack in Fort Worth. -- Jeff Gordinier

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WINE (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SNACK FOODS (74%); COFFEE & TEA (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); DRINKING PLACES (53%); RELIGION (51%); YOUTH MARKET (50%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (50%) What We're Reading

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (61%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (61%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



690 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: The Glenn Beck / DeBeers Connection

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Hyperinflation as a marketing slogan.

 BODY:
Kash, at the Street Light, has a very good post on the price of gold and its relationship or lack thereof to inflation fears. He points out that the market for gold is surprisingly small, so that it would take only a relatively small number of extra buyers to push the price way up, even when other, more direct measures of expected inflation remain low. And he draws a parallel with diamonds:
It's also conceivable that a good advertising campaign by gold producers could be enough to move the price of gold. Imagine that an effective, sustained advertising campaign, targeted at wealthy, conservative individuals in the US, is able to persuade 25,000 of them per month to switch a portion of their financial assets into gold. (Note that the target audience would be those roughly 3 million US households that have over $1 million in financial assets.) Suppose for the sake of argument that each of them is persuaded to shift just 5%, or $50,000, of their portfolio into gold. Such an advertising campaign would have the effect of pushing $15 bn per year into the market for investment gold -- very possibly enough to have a significant impact on the price of gold, given how small the overall market for gold is.
Note that a very similar thing happened to the market for diamonds in the middle of the 20th century. The DeBeers diamond cartel used an incredibly successful advertising campaign in the 1950s to cement the idea of the diamond as the premier gemstone, and in so doing permanently changed the value of diamonds.
Surprisingly, though, Kash doesn't say explicitly that this parallel is not at all hypothetical. Glenn Beck was financially intertwined with Goldline, and therefore had a financial stake in pushing fears of hyperinflation. And he had many, many viewers. So there was a direct channel through which conservative Americans were being pushed into buying gold.
Market prices almost always tell you something useful. But sometimes what they tell you is that there's a marketing scam in progress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CARTELS (72%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



691 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Exceeds Expectations With $3.9 Billion Profit, Up 29%

BYLINE: ERIC DASH


HIGHLIGHT: Earnings benefited from the reversal of about $1 billion that the nation's biggest consumer bank had previously set aside to cover loan losses.

 BODY:
Wells Fargo, the nation's biggest consumer bank, said profit rose 29 percent in the second quarter from the period a year earlier as loan losses eased significantly.
The bank reported record second-quarter earnings of $3.9 billion, or 70 cents a share, beating the 69-cents-a-share consensus estimate of analysts. That compared with a profit of $3.1 billion, or 55 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
 Wells Fargo's earnings benefited from the reversal of about $1 billion that the bank had previously set aside to cover loan losses. That helped offset a 5 percent drop in revenue, which fell to $20.4 billion, as new regulations curbed overdraft charges and its big home lending business slowed. New mortgage originations dropped nearly a quarter to $64 billion from $84 billion in the first quarter.
Wells Fargo's investment bank is far smaller than most of its big rivals, which meant that the difficult market conditions that affected competitors like Citigroup and Bank of America did not hurt as much.
Still, meager loan growth, the rising cost of servicing troubled mortgages and the effect of new financial rules have weighed on its results.
"While the economic recovery continues to be slower than expected, there are signs that businesses are investing for growth," the bank chairman and chief executive, John Stumpf, said in a statement. "Our business fundamentals were strong with increased revenues, loans and deposits, lower operating costs, improved credit quality and higher capital levels."
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo quietly emerged from the financial crisis as one of the nation's strongest banks. With its takeover of the Wachovia Corporation in Charlotte, N.C., in the fall of 2008, it established a network of retail branches along both coasts. But its go-slow approach to converting its computer systems and store signage meant that the New York metropolitan area did not change over until this spring, and the integration of its operations in Washington and the Carolinas, the last of its major markets, won't occur for another few months.
Despite its strong performance over the last few years, many analysts remain cautious. At a time when its rivals are betting on faster-growing areas overseas, some worry about Wells Fargo is too entrenched in the United States, where the housing and job markets remain weak.
Still, the bank's share price has outpaced the industry, rising about 3 percent over the last year when most bank stocks were down. The stock was up about 42 cents, or 1.6 percent, to around $27 in morning trading. And bank officials suggested the second quarter once again showed the power of its expanded franchise to offset a sluggish domestic economy.
Although total revenues declined from a year ago, several businesses - including corporate banking, commercial real estate, and retirement services - saw double-digit increases from the first three months of the year.
"We are pleased with increased revenue in the quarter, reflecting the stability in loan balances and overall strength of our diversified sources of fee income," said Tim Sloan, Wells Fargo's chief financial officer. And unlike competitors like Citigroup, Wells kept its operating expenses in check.
Tuesday's results showed that Wells Fargo's operating expenses were $12.5 billion, down $258 million from the first quarter, despite setting aside more money for foreclosure-related matters and litigation. The bank added another $242 million to its reserve to buy back loans from troubled securities that it sold to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other private investors. Over the prior two quarters, it set aside about $713 million.
Wells Fargo, which already had one of the biggest real estate portfolios of any bank, took on with its Wachovia acquisition more than $219 billion worth of commercial real estate and corporate loans, and a big book of risky mortgages. But tighter underwriting standards during the boom, and aggressive management of the problems that followed, have enabled Wells to fare better than many of its peers.
Bank of America announced a $20 billion hit to second-quarter earnings to accelerate the clean-up its mortgage troubles, while Chase has announced a series of multi-billion charges tied to its home lending business to bolster its litigation and loss reserves and improve its loan servicing practices. Citigroup, which has a much smaller business, has set aside about $1 billion to cover loan repurchases and expects only a modest uptick in servicing costs.
Overall, Wells Fargo said that loan losses were easing. As a result, bank officials said they released another $1 billion from loan loss reserves after seeing six straight quarters of improvement. Bank officials expect to keep drawing down reserves in the coming quarters.
"Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we expect future reserve releases," said Mike Loughlin, the bank's chief risk officer.

        
Europe Investigating Banks Over Derivatives
        
Wells Fargo Profit Jumps, but Revenue Falls Slightly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (62%) Wells Fargo &; Wells Fargo & Co; Wells Fargo & Co|WFC|NYSE; Financial Services

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Wells Fargo & Co

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%) Wells Fargo & Co; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: JOHN G STUMPF (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



692 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Weak Recovery Weighs on Bank of America and Wells Fargo

BYLINE: ERIC DASH


HIGHLIGHT: The sluggish economy is causing consumers to cut back on mortgages, credit card and other types of consumer loans.

 BODY:
Even as the big banks stanch their losses, they are reckoning with an unfortunate reality: the anemic recovery is hurting their results.
Second-quarter numbers on Tuesday from the nation's two biggest consumer lenders, Bank of America and Wells Fargo, showed the toll the sluggish economy was taking on revenue growth. As Americans increasingly dig out of debt, lenders' income is being reduced by a fall-off in mortgages, credit card and other types of consumer loans.
Bank of America reported an $8.8 billion loss, after taking a $20 billion hit to clean up a raft of mortgage problems. Yet underlying revenue fell around 10 percent, excluding all those big charges.
Wells Fargo reported a record profit of $3.95 billion, up 29 percent from the second quarter of 2010, even though a slowdown in mortgage lending contributed to a 5 percent drop in overall revenue. At Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, strong investment banking fees helped offset the weaker results of their domestic consumer banking units when they reported earnings last week.
It is no secret that the American economy is still ailing. Even though the recession technically may be over, home prices are falling again, the unemployment rate is above 9 percent and consumer confidence has been shattered by the disappearance of more than $1 trillion of stock market wealth since the market's peak in July 2007.
Scarred by the tumultuous events of the last few years, consumers are paying off their debts and are reluctant to take out new loans. Over all, lending is expected to fall about 1.1 percent from last year, and is down more than 10 percent from its peak shortly before the financial crisis in mid-2008, according to data from Trepp, a financial research firm.
Credit card and mortgage lending have fared even worse. Outstanding loan balances on each have fallen more than 3 percent since last year, with residential mortgages dropping over 13 percent since the crisis, according to Trepp data.
"It's a reflection of weak consumer demand. But it's also a consequence because after the losses in the financial crisis, the lending criteria is tough," said Frederick Cannon, a banking analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in New York.
Other parts of the banking business have picked up. Corporate lending, for example, has shown signs of modest growth as companies invest in improving their operations. According to a Citigroup analysis of about 700 nonfinancial public companies, planned capital spending has increased 16.7 percent from last year and has even accelerated in the last three months. That bodes well for both the recovery - and the banks.
"Corporate spending is the biggest driver for turning our economy right now, and that is why I am encouraged," said Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup's chief investment strategist.
But perhaps the best news for the financial industry is that loan losses continue to ease. Bankers say that the pipeline of troubled loans is dwindling. Those made during the boom years are being purged from the system, and the ones that came after carried more stringent terms.
As a result, the bankers have more confidence to withdraw funds that they had previously set aside to cover future losses.
Bank of America, for instance, released about $2.4 billion, largely as a result of fewer borrowers delaying or defaulting on their credit card payments.
Wells Fargo reversed about $1 billion of reserves after losses declined for six consecutive quarters and troubled loans fell the last three. Citigroup and JPMorgan also announced reserve releases of about $1 billion each.
Still, stopping the spill of red ink is one thing. Expanding revenue is another. And here, the sluggish consumer economy has offered big banks little relief.
Although largely obscured by the strong results of its investment bank, revenue fell at almost all of Bank of America's consumer businesses. Only its brokerage unit reported an increase.
Bank of America's mortgage unit said that taking more than $15.5 billion in charges to cover a proposed investor settlement and higher operating costs would help put its problems behind it. Even so, mortgage banking income fell 42 percent from a year ago, to $824 million, because of a drop in consumer demand.
Revenue from Bank of America's deposits business fell over 10 percent, squeezed by changes it made to its overdraft policies in light of more restrictive regulations. Bank of America's big credit card division was harder hit. Credit card revenue fell about 20 percent, to $5.5 billion, largely because of lower average loan balances and interest rates.
Consumers are just not borrowing like they used to, said Bruce Thompson, Bank of America's new chief financial officer.
"We're seeing consumers spending money but not necessarily borrowing more," he said. And they won't take on more debt until they are "more confident about the economy."
At Wells Fargo, like at Bank of America, new rules curbing overdraft charges and a slowdown in its mortgage business chipped away at income. Mortgage banking revenue fell nearly 20 percent, to $1.6 billion, during the quarter without a refinance boom to prop up its results.
Wells Fargo executives said the strength of other parts of their franchise, like their retirement business and corporate bank, helped the bank power through a difficult business environment. And bucking industry trends, its credit card business, smaller than most of its peers, saw a slight increase in loan balance by picking up market share.
Still, in a sign of concern about their long-term growth prospects, Wells Fargo executives walked investors through a detailed cost-cutting initiative called Project Compass that aims to keep expenses in check.
"Revenue remains king around here," said John Stumpf, Wells Fargo's chief executive, in a conference call with investors. "We think that by becoming more efficient, we can actually grow revenue faster."

        
Wells Fargo Posts 21% Gain in Its Profit
        
Union Brandishes Banker Pay in Fight With Wall St.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); HOME PRICES (51%) Bank of America; Bruce Thompson; John Stumpf; Wells Fargo &; Banking and Financial Institutions; Consumer Behavior; Credit and Debt; Bank of America Corporation; Wells Fargo & Co; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Wells Fargo & Co|WFC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Wells Fargo & Co

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Wells Fargo & Co; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN G STUMPF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



693 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Prescriptions)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Health Insurers Keep Reporting Robust Profits

BYLINE: REED ABELSON


HIGHLIGHT: Once again, the increases seem to be partly the result of consumers' reluctance to seek medical help.

 BODY:
UnitedHealth Group, one of the nation's largest health insurers, reported its second-quarter results on Tuesday, and the good news for the industry looked as if it was likely to continue. 
The company announced a double-digit increase in profits and raised its estimates for what it thought it would make for 2011, according to the company's news release.
Once again, the high profits of the insurers appear to be partly the result of more budget-consciousness by their customers, even as the insurers ask for higher premiums. Many Americans seem to be putting off or forgoing medical care because of the weak economy and the increasing amount they are required to pay in medical bills as their deductibles and co-payments climb, as I wrote in a front-page article in May.
At the time, many health insurers insisted it was too soon to tell whether utilization would eventually rebound to the same levels as before the economic downturn. They argued that they could not count on the demand for medical care staying at relatively low levels.
Even now, UnitedHealth executives say they expect people to start using health services much more the way they did before the recession than they are currently. "We expect pressure on UnitedHealthcare's gross margin percentage in the second half of 2011 and into 2012, due to increasing rate pressure from government customers and more overall normal utilization trends," UnitedHealth's chief executive, Stephen J. Hemsley, told analysts and investors.
Are the insurers right? Do you think once the economy rebounds people will be as quick to agree to a costly medical test or procedure? Will they start going to the doctor more? Or have high deductibles and co-payments changed the way people think about medical care?

        
Insurers Reporting Healthy Profits
        
If It Walks Like an Insurer ... 
        
Blue Shield of California Vows to Cap Profits
        
UnitedHealth Group Reports Strong Earnings 
        
How to Mend Medicare

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); MEDICARE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%) earnings; economy; Insurance; recession; UnitedHealth Group; Company Reports; Health Insurance and Managed Care; UnitedHealth Group Inc; health care spending; UnitedHealth Group Inc|UNH|NYSE; Health Insurers

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (92%); BLUE SHIELD OF CALIFORNIA (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UnitedHealth Group Inc

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (92%) UnitedHealth Group Inc; UNH; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%)

PERSON: STEPHEN J HEMSLEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



694 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: The Debt Limit and National Security

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: A debt default would endanger national security and justifies the presidential exercise of extraordinary powers, an economist writes.

 BODY:
One curious thing about the debt limit debate is the virtual silence of the foreign policy establishment. It's curious because the potential for a default on our debt owing to Republican intransigence in Congress is a very big foreign policy issue indeed. 
This becomes obvious when one realizes that foreigners own close to half of all Treasury debt held by the public, and a lot of it is owned by countries -- China, in particular -- that are America's most aggressive competitors on a wide variety of political, economic and military issues.
As Treasury data show, at the end of April, foreigners owned more than 46 percent of all Treasury securities held by the public. China is our largest creditor, with a fourth of all foreign-held debt and 12 percent of the total.
Not surprisingly, Chinese officials have long expressed concern about the quality of Treasury debt, for both economic and political reasons.Last year, the Dagong Global Credit Rating Company, a China-based credit-rating agency, downgraded Treasury debt, and last week it issued another warning, citing fears about the "actual ability and intention to repay its debts" of the United States. Chinese government officials have also publicly expressed concern about how the debt limit negotiations may affect them.
The situation is reminiscent of debates during the founding of our republic on the role of debt. Alexander Hamilton, the first Treasury secretary, was adamant that the United States must never default on its foreign debts. As he wrote in Federalist No. 30, "who would lend to a government that prefaced its overtures for borrowing by an act which demonstrated that no reliance could be placed on the steadiness of its measures for paying?"
A key reason why the Chinese own so much of our debt is that they are risk-averse and would rather get a low rate of return on Treasuries, even though higher rates are available on corporate bonds and other securities, because the Treasuries are assumed to have zero risk of default and the market for them is the largest and deepest in the world.
We don't know how the Chinese will react if their faith in Treasury securities is shattered by a default -- and remember, a default occurs the moment the precise terms of a loan are not met and either principal or interest is not paid exactly when due. 
The idea floated by Republicans such as Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the chair of the House Budget Committee, that the Chinese won't mind if there is a "technical default" and they get their money a few days late is total nonsense and gross self-delusion.
In April, J.P. Morgan surveyed its clients that are large buyers of Treasury securities to see what their reaction would be to a temporary default resulting from failure to raise the debt limit. It found that foreign buyers would likely demand a 55-basis point increase in interest rates (0.55 percentage points) and that this increase could be permanent. 
That is consistent with the experience in 1979 when the Treasury defaulted for two weeks over a debt limit increase delay and technical problems with its computers. It caused a 60-basis point rise in interest rates that lasted for years, according to academic research.
More worrisome to Morgan's analysts is the possibility that foreign investors may permanently reduce their Treasury holdings. The analysts note that foreigners had previously been large buyers of securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. But they reduced their holdings by 40 percent after these agencies were placed under Treasury's conservatorship.
It goes without saying that national defense is a core government function, one that has long included America's economic interests, such as protecting the supply of oil. It would be myopic in the extreme to view the flow of oil to the United States as a legitimate national security issue but to view the flow of foreign capital into Treasury securities as a matter of no particular concern.
For these reasons, many legal scholars, like Jack Balkin of the Yale Law School, view the debt limit as a national security issue that would justify a presidential response equivalent in magnitude to what would be justified by a foreign invasion or an oil blockade. Sanford Levinson of the University of Texas law school notes that Franklin D. Roosevelt justified his extraordinary actions on the economy in 1933 on the grounds that the economic crisis was as important as war.
Although this view has been rejected by the Treasury, Professors Balkin, Levinson and other legal scholars assert that if Congress adamantly refuses to raise the debt limit until default is the only option, then the Constitution gives the president the authority to act unilaterally. This could be done under Section 4 of the 14th Amendment, which says the "validity" of the public debt "shall not be questioned." 
Even Lawrence Tribe of Harvard, who rejects the Section 4 option, says failure to raise the debt limit would empower the president to take actions that would normally be illegal, such as impounding funds in order to prioritize debt payments.
Throughout our history, great presidents have pushed the limit of what the Constitution permitted when circumstances demanded it -- as when Thomas Jefferson bought the Louisiana Territory from the French despite lacking any constitutional authority to do so. 
A debt crisis resulting from Congressional irresponsibility may force the onetime constitutional law professor Barack Obama to do the same.

        
Will the United States Default?
        
Can We Afford the Military Budget?
        
Are We About to Repeat the Mistakes of 1937?
        
The Legend of Margaret Thatcher
        
What's a Crisis and What Isn't 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%) Bruce Bartlett; budget deficit; Daily Economist; debt ceiling; default; foreign relations; politics; National Debt (US); United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Today's Economist

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



695 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Scribblers and Madmen

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Ignorance spreading from the ivory tower.

 BODY:
Ezra Klein has a good column on the dangers of being wrong about Keynes. As he says, it's very difficult to respond rationally to an economic crisis when politicians like Eric Cantor completely fail to understand what Keynesianism is all about:
In his book, Cantor goes on to describe Keynesianism as the theory "that government can be counted on to spend more wisely than the people." He's wrong - and wrong in a way that's making it harder to recover from this crisis, and could make it harder to respond to the next one.
But where do these crude fallacies come from? It would be comforting, in a way, if they were solely the result of Republican anti-intellectualism -- and surely there is plenty of that.
The fact, however, is that these very same crude fallacies are being enunciated, with confidence, by famous and influential economists. Here's Eugene Fama, arguably our most famous and influential finance economist: 
Again, here is my argument in three sentences.
1. Bailouts and stimulus plans must be financed.
2. If the financing takes the form of additional government debt, the added debt displaces other uses of the same funds.
3. Thus, stimulus plans only enhance incomes when they move resources from less productive to more productive uses.
Are any of these statements incorrect?
In his attack on me Krugman implicitly assumes that sentence 3 above is true; that is, the stimulus plan will on balance move resources from less productive to more productive uses. This is indeed the focus of the issue. 
That's exactly what Cantor is saying. It's completely wrong; the whole point is that stimulus is supposed to put resources that would otherwise be unemployed to work. But at this point, a large part of the economics profession no longer understands that. So why should we expect politicians to get it?
The point is that GOP ignorance on macroeconomics isn't like GOP ignorance on, say, climate science. In the latter case the bad science comes from a handful of essentially bought and paid for "skeptics". In the case of macroeconomics, the nonsense is coming from established economists with lots of widely cited papers. Paul Ryan doesn't have to distill his madness from the scribbling of hacks at Heritage (although he does that too); he can get it over some nice wine from tenured faculty at the University of Chicago.
Klein suggests that what went wrong in the Great Depression was that people hadn't read Keynes yet; well, what went wrong and continues to go wrong in the Lesser Depression is that eminent economists, or at those so judged by their peers, turned their back on everything Keynes learned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); CLIMATOLOGY (61%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ACADEMIC TENURE (60%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



696 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2204 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Bank of America Posts $8.8 Billion Loss in 2nd Quarter | Bank of America reported a loss of $8.8 billion in the second quarter, as it doled out huge payments to settle legal claims related its troubled mortgage division.
The loss of 90 cents a share matched analyst expectations. The mortgage problems also ate into the bank's revenue, which fell about 55 percent, to $13.2 billion
DealBook 
Murdoch's Board Stands By as Scandal Widens | The News Corporation's board might as well be named "Friends of Rupert," DealBook's Andrew Ross Sorkin argues in his latest column.
The nine independent directors have remained mostly silent as the scandal roils Rupert Murdoch's empire. They have little incentive to cross him, since he controls 38 percent of shareholder votes.
"This is a board that qualifies for an 'F' in every category," Nell Minow, a corporate governance expert, said. "It is the ultimate crony board."DealBook Column 

        
Perkins Says Board Stands Behind Murdoch | Despite reports that the News Corporation's directors are considering elevating the company's president, Chase Carey, to chief executive, board members say they are supporting Mr. Murdoch.
Tom Perkins, the venture capitalist who resigned from Hewlett-Packard's board during that company's hacking scandal, is standing behind the News Corporation's current management, for now.
"This is not like the H.P. situation," he told The New York Times. "The board supports top management." NEW YORK TIMES 

DEAL NOTES
Hip Neighbors for Wall Street Renters | A new report suggests that high-powered financial executives are no longer the elite renters of New York City apartments. Employees of hot technology start-ups are moving into the city's luxury buildings, demanding perks like ubiquitous Wi-Fi and Wii rooms. WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Clorox Rejects Icahn Takeover Bid | Clorox said a $10.2 billion takeover bid by Carl C. Icahn was "neither credible nor adequate." The company also implemented a poison-pill plan.DealBook 
Will News Corp. Be Forced to Give Up BSkyB Altogether? | After deciding to abandon its $12 billion bid to take full ownership of British Sky Broadcasting, the News Corporation could now be at risk of losing the stake in the British broadcaster that it already owns as regulators begin an examination of BSkyB's owners and directors to determine whether they are "fit and proper."
Felix Salmon of Reuters goes even further and posits this highly speculative question: Could Rupert Murdoch's empire end up in play?BLOOMBERG NEWS | BBC NEWS | INDEPENDENT | REUTERS 
CVC Is Said to Be Close to a Deal to Buy CovergEx | CVC Capital Partners is nearing a $1.5 billion deal to buy CovergEx, a provider of trading software, whose owners include Bank of America and GTCR Gold Rauner, Bloomberg News reports.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
VTB's C.F.O. Puts $9.2 Billion Price Tag on Bank of Moscow | "We expect what the total purchase price paid for 100 percent of Bank of Moscow will equate to 258 billion rubles," Herbert Moos, the chief financial officer of Russian lender VTB, said on a conference call on Monday.
Mr. Moos's company is looking to increase its stake in Bank of Moscow to somewhere near full ownership by the end of next year.REUTERS 
Temple Asks Shareholders to Reject Hostile Bid | Temple-Inland, a maker of corrugated packaging, said it believed that International Paper's $3.3 billion hostile takeover bid undervalued its assets. The company has appealed to its shareholders to reject the offer.REUTERS 
AXA and Neoen in Renewable Energy Deal | Neoen, a French power company, and the private equity arm of AXA have teamed up to buy the wind and solar assets of Poweo from Verbund.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
BT Investment Buys Hambro | BT Investment Management, an Australian firm, said on Tuesday that it would buy its smaller London peer, J O Hambro Capital Management, in a $335 million deal.FINANCIAL TIMES | THE AUSTRALIAN | PRESS RELEASE 
Antitrust Regulator Wants More Information on TMX Bidder | Acquiring an exchange is no easy task, as potential buyers of the TMX Group of Canada have found. First the London Stock Exchange failed in its takeover bid last month, and now Canadian antitrust regulators are asking for more information about the 13-member Maple consortium that is making a $3.96 billion hostile bid for the exchange operator.FINANCIAL TIMES | PRESS RELEASE 
Musgrave to Buy Superquinn | The Musgrave Group, the Irish retailer, has agreed to buy its beleaguered rival Superquinn to create one of the country's largest grocers. Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but Superquinn sold six years ago for $562 million.REUTERS 
Thoma Bravo to Sell Excelligence Learning | In the latest private equity deal in the for-profit education sector, Sterling Investments has agreed to buy Excelligence Learning from Thoma Bravo.PEHUB | DEALBOOK 
RLM and Finsbury to Merge | The Finsbury Group of Britain and Robinson Lerer & Montgomery of the United States said on Tuesday that the two firms would merge. The new company will be called RLM Finsbury.
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Ghost of Lehman Still Haunts Neuberger | A Finra arbitration panel has ordered Neuberger Berman to pay more than $5 million to four former clients who bought structured products secured by Lehman Brothers debt.DealBook 
Financial Regulator Backs Bank Proposals | The Financial Stability Board, the global financial regulator backed by the Group of 20 nations, has endorsed recommendations intended to prevent a future collapse of the banking industry.NEW YORK TIMES 
Stress Tests May Spur Action From Some of Europe's Biggest Players | Some of the biggest names in European banking, including Deutsche Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland and Societe Generale, look set to come under investor pressure to bolster reserves after only just passing the Continent's recent round of stress tests.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
R.B.S. Sued Over Mortgage Securities | American regulators once again have the Royal Bank of Scotland in their sights, as the National Credit Union looks for over $629 million in damages. The group has accused R.B.S., the mostly nationalized British bank, of misrepresenting certain mortgage-backed securities.REUTERS 
Lloyds Recruits R.B.S. Executive | Nathan Bostock is leaving Royal Bank of Scotland to join Lloyds as the head of wholesale banking under Antonio Horta-Osorio.FINANCIAL TIMES 
British Banks Lead a Sorry Pack as European Market Falters | British firms found themselves dealt the hardest blow in the shock that hit the whole European financial sector on Monday, after last week's stress tests failed to calm the market, but rather heightened fears, The Financial Times reports.FINANCIAL TIMES 
PRIVATE EQUITY 
California Pension Funds See Rebound in Returns | The California Public Employees' Retirement System and the California State Teachers' Retirement System, the state's two largest pension funds, both posted returns of more than 20 percent each in the year ended June 30. Calpers, in particular, benefited from strong returns from its private equity investments.ASSOCIATED PRESS | SACRAMENTO BEE 
N.Y.C. Pensions Said to Consider Sale of P.E. Portfolio | Several New York City pension plans are weighing a move to sell $2 billion in private equity fund-of-funds investments, Bloomberg News reports.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
HEDGE FUNDS 
Building the Perfect Beast: The Mantra of Ray Dalio | In its latest issue, New Yorker magazine takes a look into the strange and highly lucrative world of Ray Dalio's hedge fund, Bridgewater Associates, and its "culture of transparency."
"Almost everything is like a machine," Mr. Dalio tells the publication. "Nature is a machine. The family is a machine. The life cycle is like a machine. And then everything else I basically view as just a case at hand."NEW YORKER 
Former Hedge Fund Trader Pleads Guilty to Threatening Regulators | A day before testimony in his trial was set to begin, Vincent McCrudden pleaded guilty to threatening the lives of over 40 financial regulators, including the chief of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary L. Schapiro.NEW YORK POST | REUTERS 
Soros Hedge Fund Cuts Investments | The debt crisis in Europe, inflation in China and the dispute over the debt ceiling in the United States are all contributing to a lack of clarity in stock, bond and currency markets. That means hedge funds are cutting back on their investments to await a more transparent time, and George Soros's Quantum Endowment Fund is leading the way.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Hedge Fund Denies Insider Trading in Washington Mutual Shares | Testifying before a bankruptcy judge, the managing director of Aurelius Capital denied allegations that the hedge fund used insider information to profit from the bankruptcy of Washington Mutual.
Dan Gropper said Aurelius even went so far as to pay $150,000 to soundproof his office to keep traders from overhearing any confidential conversations.BLOOMBERG NEWS | ASSOCIATED PRESS 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
A.I.G. Weighs I.P.O. of Aircraft Unit | A.I.G. is again weighing an initial public offering of the International Lease Finance Corporation, its big aircraft leasing business, to help repay its government bailout.DealBook 
I.P.O. Failures in Europe Heighten Worry | Signs in Europe are not good. Of the 50 or so companies that said they would go public before June this year, almost half withdrew their plans, while of those that did not, almost half again saw a decrease in share price, The Financial Times reports.FINANCIAL TIMES 
U.S. Silica Files for I.P.O. | U.S. Silica Holdings, a sand-mining company backed by Golden Gate Private Equity, is hoping to raise as much as $200 million in an initial public offering.MARKETWATCH 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Silicon Valley Watching Zillow | With Zillow's initial public offering set to price on Tuesday, venture capitalists will be on tenterhooks to see how much interest smaller companies can drum up.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Komli Acquires Indian Mobile Advertising Platform | The Asian digital media network Komli Media said on Tuesday that it had acquired the India-based advertising agency ZestADZ, adding to its mobile platform. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.TECHCRUNCH | PRESS RELEASE 
Curtain Comes Up on Ahearn's V.C. Firm | True North Venture Partners, the $300 million green-technology fund started by a former First Solar chief, Michael Ahearn, officially came out of the starting gate on Monday.GIGAOM | TRUE NORTH VENTURE PARTNERS
Silicon Valley Bank to Invest in Solar Firm | Silicon Valley Bank is to provide $8 million in financing to SolarEdge Technologies, a provider of solar-power harvesting and photovoltaic monitoring systems for both commercial and domestic usage.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Calling Off Auction, Borders to Liquidate | Borders called off an auction for itself after finding no last-minute buyers, and instead planned to go ahead with a bid from two liquidators.DEALBOOK 
Gensler's Gambit Hits Congressional Resistance | Gary Gensler, head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, has done his best to implement the Dodd-Frank Act since its passage last summer, but his efforts have provoked opposition on the part of Republicans, with Congress cutting his budget, trimming his wings and studying each proposal he makes at length.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Dodd-Frank Discontents | A year after the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial sector seems to have stabilized, but dozens of bills have been introduced in Congress seeking to undo parts of the overhaul, and lawmakers are stonewalling over who should run certain regulatory agencies, The New York Times reports.DealBook 
S.E.C. Freezes Assets of 3 Firms Accused of Insider Trading | The S.E.C. obtained a freeze on the assets of three Swiss firms accused of illegal insider trading in Arch Chemicals ahead of the company's $1.2 billion sale to the Lonza Group.DealBook 
Galleon Lawyer Readies for Sentencing | Joshua Klein, the lawyer who took control of the Galleon Group insider trading investigation in the fall of 2008 until he left the United States attorney's Manhattan office on Jan. 19, 2010, may not be in the courtroom on Wednesday, when a former hedge fund consultant, Danielle Chiesi, comes in for sentencing. But he will be watching.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Judge Denies Cuban Use of 'Unclean Hands' Defense | Mark Cuban, the Internet entrepreneur turned owner of the Dallas Mavericks, will not able to argue that the Securities and Exchange Commission improperly investigated him as part of his defense against the regulator's allegations that he engaged in insider trading, a judge ruled on Monday.BLOOMBERG NEWS | CHICAGO TRIBUNE
Lawmakers Must Now Address Fannie and Freddie | The Dodd-Frank Act has done little to address the issue of the government-run mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, putting private mortgage lenders at a competitive disadvantage and the goals of the act at risk, Reuters Breakingviews writes.REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); MERGERS (76%); SCANDALS (75%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%); CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); BSY (LSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (89%); CARL ICAHN (74%); CHASE CAREY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



697 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Thinking Cap: Shopping for Freedom

BYLINE: PATRICIA COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Consumerism has long been considered a cornerstone of democracy and civic obligation in American society. Minh-Ha T. Pham explores how the fashion industry took up this challenge in earnest after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

 BODY:
 by Minh-Ha T. Pham in Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society.
 Consumerism has long been considered a cornerstone of democracy and a civic obligation in American society. Ms. Pham examines why the fashion industry, in particular, became the emblem of freedom and economic revitalization following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. "Freedom to shop is one of the fundamental liberties terrorists want to deprive us of," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani declared in October 2001 at the start of Fashion Week in New York. Ms. Pham, an assistant professor of art history and Asian-American studies at Cornell University, argues that the ability to express oneself through dress could be starkly represented as a symbol of democracy in comparison with the burqa, which was denounced as an example of Taliban repression and invoked when government officials listed the humanitarian justifications for the war in Afghanistan. Ms. Pham complains that this assumption about the burqa, however, ignores the desires of Muslim women who may choose to be covered and discounts the hostility that the Muslim veil has sometimes incited in Western societies. 
 After 9/11, going out to shop was equated with freedom of movement, and dressing yourself in style was equated with freedom of self-expression. "Cheap chic" was championed as the democratization of fashion, an example of how the political system embraces rich and poor alike. The Council of Fashion Designers of America's Fashion for America campaign, which sold a white crew-neck T-shirt for $22.50 after 9/11 "featured a torn heart-shaped flag being sewn back together with a needle and thread, a visual metaphor for the fashion industry's role in stitching back the heart of the nation." Ms. Pham says that since the recession hit in 2008, the political meaning of fashion has shifted from fighting terrorism to rescuing the economy, and thereby strengthening democracy. "If people don't shop, people lose their jobs," she quotes the designer Vera Wang as saying in 2009. In order to halt the cycle of spiraling discounts, the fashion industry at the moment, needs consumers to pay more for clothes, not less. "Whereas just a few years ago fashion in general and cheap chic specifically were celebrated tools for the distribution of democratic rights to self-expression and self-determination, the mass distribution and consumption of fashion today are not understood as contributing to the care of the self or the nation. To the contrary, mass fashion is unhealthy for both."
 If you splurge on that designer jacket, are you an anti-terrorism advocate, a recession buster or a spendthrift? Post a comment here.

        
Thinking Cap: The Weight Panic
        
Thinking Cap: The Zoot Suit: Statement of Style or Protest?
        
Emmys Fashion: Dressed for Stress
        
Planned Mural Will Not Be Installed at Ground Zero

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (93%); FASHION DESIGNERS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); HISTORY (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TALIBAN (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); POLITICS (70%); ART HISTORY (70%) fashion; Sept. 11; Thinking Cap; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Wang, Vera; Fashion and Apparel; Muslim Veiling; New York Fashion Week; Terrorism; Council of Fashion Designers of America; Books; featured; New York City

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%) Council of Fashion Designers of America

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (76%) Giuliani, Rudolph W; Wang, Vera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



698 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Obama vs. Romney, an Early Skirmish

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Two advisers do battle over economic policy via Twitter.

 BODY:
A recent Twitter exchange between Bill Burton, a former adviser to President Obama who remains close to the White House, and Eric Fehrnstrom, a longtime adviser to Mitt Romney, highlights the different tacks the two 2012 campaigns are taking on issues.
On Monday, Mr. Burton pointed to Mr. Romney's refusal, so far, to engage with much of the deficit debate in Washington, including the Republicans' recent cut, cap and balance bill:
Things Mitt Romney probably won't raise at his Wall St fundraiser: cut/cap/balance, gay marriage... what else? http://scr.bi/pWWhI4
Polls suggest that some of the main positions that Congressional Republicans have taken, like favoring a major overhaul of Medicare, may be unpopular with voters. In the 2012 campaign, Mr. Obama will almost certainly try to tie his opponent to some of the less popular positions of the Republican Party. That will especially be true of those positions that the ultimate nominee adopts during the primaries. (As of now, Mr. Romney appears to be leading the Republican field but it's still early in the race).
Republicans will no doubt respond that Mr. Obama is trying to change the topic from the state of the economy. Not long after Mr. Burton's message, Mr. Fehrnstrom wrote back:
Positive economic news? MT@ billburton716 Things Romney won't raise at his Wall St fundraiser: cut/cap/balance, gay marriage... what else?
On the whole, I've been struck by the similarity between Mr. Romney's tone so far and Bill Clinton's tone in the 1992 campaign. Their suggested remedies for the weak economy, of course, are far different.
My column this week has more on the subject.

        
The President and Club Wagner
        
How We Crunched the Deficit Numbers
        
Obama's Gorbachev Moment
        
The Debt Limit and National Security 
        
Will the United States Default?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (70%) Bill Burton; budget deficit; Eric Fehrnstrom; Mitt Romney; President Obama; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



699 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Magic?

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader from Kentucky, has conjured a legislative magic trick that would avert a financial crisis if both sides can agree. The plan would allow Republicans to accede to an increase in the government's debt limit without actually voting for it or giving in to President Obama's demand for tax increases as part of any deal, The Times's Carl Hulse reports. It would also give the White House a way to avert a deeper blow to the economy and allow Democrats to head into an election year without having bitten into entitlement programs. Representative Maxine Waters is hoping to have her ethics case dismissed due to alleged misconduct by Ethics Committee staffers. She made the request after learning of unauthorized communications between the lead ethics committee lawyer handling the inquiry and Representative Jo Bonner, Republican of Arizona, who is now committee chairman, the Times's Eric Lipton reports. Around the Web Michele Bachmann views the multibillion-dollar settlement paid to black farmers who claimed that the federal government discriminated against them as wasteful spending, The Huffington Post reports. 
Happenings around Washington Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, will announce plans to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act in a news conference at the National Press Club. Michael Vick, quarterback for the Philadelphia Eagles, will visit the Hill today as a show of support for a bill that would penalize those who finance dogfights and cockfights or bring children to the events.

        
The Early Word: Predictions
        
The Weekend Word: Fallbacks 
        
The Early Word: Sticking to Their Principles
        
The Early Word: Tension
        
The Early Word: Pessimism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MISCONDUCT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); LAWYERS (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (65%); SPORTS (65%); MARRIAGE (65%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (54%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); JO BONNER (58%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (58%); MAXINE WATERS (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



700 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Pledges Money and Land for Engineering School

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Signaling how serious he is about developing a high-tech university campus in New York City, the mayor said the city would provide up to $100 million and a site for a new school of engineering and applied sciences.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg raised his offer on Tuesday to universities interested in setting up a school of engineering and applied sciences in New York City: along with practically free use of a swath of land, the city will contribute as much as $100 million.
Mr. Bloomberg publicly presented an invitation to universities to bid on the chance to create a campus, either on one of three city-owned properties or elsewhere in the city. Issuing the request for proposals is the latest step officials have taken to try to make New York more competitive with Silicon Valley as a hub for technology-based businesses.
"During the 1980s and '90s, Silicon Valley - not New York City - became the world's capital of technology startups, and that is still true today," Mr. Bloomberg said in a speech at a conference on the city's future at the Grand Hyatt hotel in Midtown. "But if am right, and if we succeed in this mission, it won't be true forever." City officials say the school could prompt as much as $6 billion in economic activity by creating 30,000 temporary and permanent jobs and, more important, by fostering innovations that could become big businesses. They argue that the city's financial contribution, which would come from its capital budget over several years, would pay off in increased tax revenue and economic growth.
Mr. Bloomberg said he was encouraged by the "strong response" the city received to a call late last year for schools to express interest in the idea. The city received 18 submissions that involved 27 institutions from around the world - some teamed up to present ideas - and used those ideas to help focus the offer. Among the most enthusiastic bidders were Cornell and Stanford Universities.
In December, the first invitation identified four city-owned properties as potential sites for a new campus: the south end of Roosevelt Island in the East River, part of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, parts of Governors Island in the harbor and the Farm Colony on Staten Island. The Staten Island site has been dropped from consideration because it was not appealing enough to the first respondents, city officials said.
Cornell and Stanford each chose the Goldwater Hospital campus on Roosevelt Island as the place it would want to develop a campus. Stanford said it envisioned an investment of as much as $1 billion in a school that would have about 100 professors and 2,200 graduate students.
At the time, city officials had not indicated how much financial help they were willing to provide. But the mayor said Tuesday that the city would invest "up to $100 million in infrastructure upgrades" in the proposal that is selected. 
But Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the less city money a bidder asked for, the better its chances of winning the competition would be. 
Cornell has not yet said how much it thinks its proposal would cost, said David J. Skorton, the university's president. But he said the school's trustees were "just thrilled" at the prospect of setting up a "revolutionary campus" in the city, which has long been home to its medical school, Weill Cornell Medical College. 
"This is going to be a complete campus, not an annex of Ithaca or a way station," Dr. Skorton said.
Stanford's president, John L. Hennessy, said that his university would submit a formal proposal. "A Stanford New York campus is a unique opportunity to launch another center of innovation on the East Coast," Dr. Hennessy said in a statement. "New York will be a dynamic partner, drawing talented people from around the world." 
Some schools based in the city have complained that Mr. Bloomberg has overlooked them in his pursuit of a big-name school from elsewhere. But city officials say that any university with a highly rated school of engineering or applied sciences is welcome to bid, even those like New York University or Columbia University that have their main campuses in Manhattan.
"Universities from around the country, and some from around the world, have expressed interest in our offer," Mr. Bloomberg said in his speech. "And that's how it should be, because we are an international city - and a city that believes in free competition." 
The tight schedule for the project indicates that the mayor would like ground to be broken for the school before he leaves office. Bidders face a deadline of Oct. 28 to submit their proposals, and city officials hope to choose a winning bidder by the end of the year.

        
Bloomberg Wants to Make New York 'No. 1 Digital City'
        
Reaching 311, via New iPhone App
        
Bloomberg Tries His Hand, Haltingly, at Twitter
        
City Makes Pitch to New Media
        
Bloomberg Campaign Connects to Facebook

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%) Michael R. Bloomberg; technology; Bloomberg, Michael R; Colleges and Universities; Cornell University; Economic Development Corp; Stanford University; Weill Cornell Medical College; New York City; City Hall; Higher Education; Highlights; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%) Cornell University; Economic Development Corp; Stanford University; Weill Cornell Medical College

TICKER: H (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



701 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Perry Eyes Religious Voters

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Rick Perry has promoted his economic record in Texas, but if he runs for president, it is clear that he plans to appeal to social conservatives.

 BODY:
If Gov. Rick Perry of Texas runs for president, one thing seems clear: he plans to make a concerted appeal to the conservative Christians who make up a large block of Iowa's Republican caucus voters.
Mr. Perry has spent the last several weeks privately testing the support he might receive from activists, donors and elected officials. He promotes his state's record of job creation and economic success, even during the country's recession.
But publicly, he has also been dropping not-so-subtle hints to his potential Republican rivals that he expects to be extremely competitive among religious conservatives who have in the past helped decide the winner of Iowa's first-in-the-nation caucuses.
In an interview over the weekend with The Des Moines Register, Mr. Perry conspicuously used religious terminology, saying that "I'm getting more and more comfortable every day that this is what I've been called to do." In a speech last month, he urged action on abortion and other social issues that unite conservatives. And next month, he is hosting a day of prayer in Houston for the nation's governors just days before the Republican straw poll in Ames, Iowa.
On Monday, he joked that "there's a lot of different ways to be called."
"My mother may call me for dinner. My friends may call me for something," he said.
But he quickly dismissed the idea that he was retreating from the religious overtones of his comments.
"Oh no, no, no, no. I don't ever get confused about that. I am a man of faith," Mr. Perry told reporters, according to The Austin Statesman. "Do I look for signs and do I look for good Scripture that tells me how to live my life? Absolutely I do that."
If he enters the race, Steve Scheffler, president of the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition, said Mr. Perry would be an attractive candidate to the state's religious voters.
"Sure," he said, noting that Mr. Perry has the credentials to talk about the issues of abortion, marriage and school choice. Of the Republican campaign in Iowa, he said: "It's more fluid than I've ever seen it in my whole life. If he gets in soon, he could have a big impact."
But Mr. Scheffler said that Iowa conservatives might not coalesce around a single, socially conservative candidate this year like they have in the past. In 2008, Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, won the Iowa caucuses largely on the strength of the religious vote.
Now, Mr. Scheffler said, Iowa's conservatives are concerned about the economy - and about beating President Obama.
"If you talk to social conservatives in Iowa, the overwhelming majority of them will tell you they are also very concerned about the state of the economy, jobs and borrowing," Mr. Scheffler said. "Rick Perry being a social and a fiscal conservative, I think there are some people who he would appeal to."
But, Mr. Scheffler added, "He has to get in real soon."
If he does, Mr. Perry will find the campaign crowded with other candidates who are also trying to appeal to the state's social conservatives while maintaining a broader message about the economy.
Here is a rundown of the Republican candidates and their attempts to appeal to social conservatives:
1. Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota has built a political career focusing on gay marriage, abortion, school choice and other issues that appeal to social conservatives.
But Mrs. Bachmann has been trying to downplay that history in Iowa, perhaps assuming that her credentials with that block of voters is secure.
Instead, her campaign has been almost exclusively trying to build up her brand as a fiscal conservative. Her television commercials have promoted her work as a tax lawyer. And she has been among the strongest critics of the Obama administration during negotiations over the nation's debt.
"I will not vote to increase the debt ceiling," she said in her first Iowa television ad.
2. Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, also is pitching for the same religious voters in Iowa.
Mr. Pawlenty's career in Minnesota dealt mainly with economic issues. He often brags about the fights he had with the Democratic Legislature about taxes, including shutting down the government in an attempt to get his way.
But his campaign has made winning Iowa a key part of his presidential strategy, and that means emphasizing his credentials on social issues as well.
In a six-minute video that he e-mailed to potential supporters in Iowa, Mr. Pawlenty spoke at length about his faith and the role it has played in his life, his marriage and his political career.
The video was accompanied by a letter from Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mr. Huckabee's daughter, who is now a senior adviser to Mr. Pawlenty. 
"While some speak our language out of political convenience, the Pawlentys' words are rooted in core convictions," Ms. Huckabee wrote.
3. By contrast, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, and Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, have spent little time trying to woo social conservatives in Iowa.
Neither candidate has made Iowa a cornerstone of his campaign, and both have focused squarely on economic issues since they have been in the race. Mr. Romney, in particular, has spent weeks hammering Mr. Obama on his handling of the economy. 
Both Mr. Romney and Mr. Huntsman are viewed with some suspicion by social and religious conservatives because of their past records.
Mr. Huntsman, for example, said he would respect the decision by New York State lawmakers to legalize gay marriage. Mr. Romney supported abortion rights in Massachusetts and later changed his mind, a change in positions that makes some social conservatives wary. Neither Mr. Huntsman nor Mr. Romney have been willing to sign an antiabortion pledge.
Mr. Huntsman notes that he has signed antiabortion legislation into law. And Mr. Romney says he is now firmly antiabortion.
But both men are skipping the straw poll in Ames next month. And Mr. Romney, in particular, has a history with the voters of Iowa, where he campaigned vigorously in 2007, only to see Mr. Huckabee overtake him at the end.
4. Among the other Republican candidates, several are hoping to do well with religious conservatives.
Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, is an unabashed religious conservative who has emphasized his credentials on issues like abortion. In a recent Web video, he took aim at Mr. Huntsman and Mr. Romney for not signing the abortion pledge.
Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, has focused on his business experience. But he has also made an issue of his opposition to Shariah, the Islamic legal code, and his willingness to question Muslims before appointing them to his cabinet. Those positions could appeal to religious conservative voters.

        
Best Political Quotes of the Holiday Weekend
        
2012 Republicans Ignore Each Other, for Now
        
Running Against Bachmann Poses Challenges for Male Rivals
        
What to Watch For in the Republican Money Race
        
Five Things to Watch in the Republican Race

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (93%); RELIGION (92%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); ABORTION (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%) Michele Bachmann; mitt romney; rick perry; tim pawlenty; Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Huckabee, Mike; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Iowa; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

PERSON: RICK PERRY (95%); TIM PAWLENTY (88%); MICHELE BACHMANN (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); HERMAN CAIN (72%) Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Huckabee, Mike; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%) IOWA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



702 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Coca-Cola's Results Are Lifted by Overseas Business

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Coca-Cola posted slightly better-than-expected earnings on Tuesday on strength in emerging markets like China and Russia, helping to send its shares up more than 3 percent to a 12-year high. 
The company, whose brands include Sprite, Vitaminwater and Powerade, does the majority of its business outside the United States. That has kept it in favor with investors despite home market struggles, where anemic jobs growth has dulled sales of soft drinks.
At the same time, volatility in commodity markets will lead to about $700 million in increased costs this year for things like packaging, sweeteners and fruit.
Coke said it had raised North American prices 1 to 2 percent in the first half of the year, and had already started work on additional increases that should total 2 to 3 percent for the year, even though such moves might lead some budget-conscious consumers to cut back.
''There's no question that the U.S. consumer is still mixed, confused and somewhat apprehensive,'' Muhtar Kent, Coke's chief executive, told Reuters.
Still, Philip Gorham, an analyst at Morningstar, said raising prices again could be difficult, given the delicate state of consumer spending after weak jobs growth in June.
''Pricing should be led by the consumer, but the trouble is the consumer, particularly at the low end, is driven by unemployment, which is back up,'' Mr. Gorham said. ''I just don't think the environment is right to raise prices.''
Coke also said it planned to buy back at least $2.5 billion in stock by the end of the year, after it suspended buybacks in the second quarter because of discussions it was having regarding a ''strategic option'' for the company, like an acquisition. The discussions are no longer happening, Coke said.
Coke reported net income of $2.80 billion, or $1.20 a share for the second quarter that ended on July 1, up from $2.37 billion, or $1.02 a share, a year earlier.
Excluding one-time items, earnings were $1.17 a share, topping analysts' average estimate by a penny, according to Thomson Reuters.
Revenue rose 47 percent, to $12.74 billion, fueled by last year's purchase of North American bottling operations, price increases and a 6 percent benefit from foreign exchange rates. Analysts were expecting revenue of $12.38 billion.
The company said the integration of its bottler was progressing according to plan, with 2011 cost savings of $140 million to $150 million expected. In addition, the company said its productivity initiatives were on track to slightly exceed its expectations for annual savings of $400 million to $500 million by the end of 2011.
Shares of Coca-Cola rose $2.20, or 3.3 percent, to $69.32. Earlier they rose to $69.45, the highest level since June 1999.
Shares of PepsiCo, which plans to report its quarterly results on Thursday, rose 54 cents, to $68.54.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SPORTS DRINKS (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); EXECUTIVES (52%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (91%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (91%)

PERSON: MUHTAR KENT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



703 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Blame Congress: Without climate change legislation, industry has little incentive to innovate

 BODY:
American Electric Power's decision to shut down an ambitious experiment aimed at capturing greenhouse gases from a coal-fired power plant was a disappointing setback to efforts to control harmful global warming emissions from coal, among the world's most abundant fuels. 
It was also a predictable result of Congress's failure to enact climate change legislation that would have placed a price on emissions and given businesses compelling economic reasons to clean up their plants and develop new technologies. Without industrywide federal standards in place, state utility regulators would not have allowed A.E.P. to recoup its investment through higher prices, making the whole project untenable.
Coal-fired power plants produce one-third of the nation's emissions of carbon dioxide. Policy makers have other tools to help lower these greenhouse gas emissions, including regulations requiring more efficient plants. What they do not have is breakthrough technologies.
The A.E.P. project, located at a 31-year-old coal-fired plant in West Virginia, was the country's most advanced attempt to strip carbon dioxide from the flue gases and store it permanently underground in deep-rock formations under the plant. The company had completed a small pilot program, and the Energy Department had promised to pay for half the final $668 million bill. But A.E.P. would have been on the hook for the rest.
When work began two years ago, it was assumed that Congress would adopt a cap-and-trade program -- imposing a price on emissions, rewarding companies that found innovative ways to reduce them and providing upfront subsidies for advanced technologies. The House passed such a bill, but the Senate balked.
Most of the other proposals and projects in the United States involve enhanced oil recovery, in which utilities capture carbon dioxide and ship it to oil fields where it is injected into wells to extract more oil. Senator Richard Lugar has introduced legislation that would provide tax breaks for utilities that participate. That's a start. But, at best, oil recovery will be able to absorb only one-sixth of the country's annual carbon-dioxide emissions.
To address global warming, the country needs new technology and more ambitious projects. There is little chance that industry will invest in them unless Congress provides far stronger financial incentives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (88%); OIL EXTRACTION (85%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (92%)

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



704 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Profit Up 13%, UnitedHealth Raises Outlook

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
The UnitedHealth Group, one of the nation's largest health insurers, reported its second-quarter results on Tuesday, and the good news for the industry appeared likely to continue. UnitedHealth announced a double-digit increase in profits and raised its estimates for 2011 earnings, according to its news release. Its net income rose 13 percent, to $1.27 billion, or $1.16 a share, compared with $1.12 billion, or 99 cents a share, one year ago. And revenue increased 8 percent, to $25.23 billion. 
UnitedHealth was the first of the big insurers to report this quarter, and once again, the high profits appear to be partly the result of more budget-consciousness by their customers, even as the insurers ask for higher premiums. As they have for many months now, Americans seem to be putting off or forgoing medical care because of the weak economy and the increasing amount they are required to pay in medical bills as their deductibles and co-payments climb.
In late spring, many health insurers said it was too soon to tell whether utilization would eventually rebound to the same levels as before the downturn. They argued that they could not count on the demand for medical care staying at relatively low levels.
Even now, UnitedHealth executives say they expect people to soon start using health services closer to the way they did before the recession. ''We expect pressure on UnitedHealthcare's gross margin percentage in the second half of 2011 and into 2012, due to increasing rate pressure from government customers and more overall normal utilization trends,'' UnitedHealth's chief executive, Stephen J. Hemsley, told analysts and investors.
The stock closed on Tuesday at $51.45 a share, down 50 cents.
WellPoint and the other major insurers are expected to report results in the next week or so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (92%); WELLPOINT INC (53%)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (92%); WLP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%)

PERSON: STEPHEN J HEMSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



705 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Proving Ground of War

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Why Would Anyone Miss War?,'' by Sebastian Junger (Sunday Review, July 17):
The idea that young men (and now women) want and need a rite of passage into adulthood that takes them out into the world to test and prove themselves, and that includes high stakes, extreme challenges, extreme bonding and risk of death, is as old as the Trojan War and older.
When warriors return home, it's hard for them to find the same intensity of experience, sense of pride, belonging, meaning and value in working at a big-box store, or standing in line for unemployment, or in the desultory social chaos and trivial pursuits of civilian life. It's easy to see why they miss war. What's harder is to see how they manage to let go of it. 
LEORA BARISH Venice, Calif., July 17, 2011
To the Editor:
As a retired airline captain, former Marine Corps helicopter pilot and Vietnam veteran, I can tell you that troop assaults, medevacs and dicey extraction missions under fire provided a life-intensity high unequaled in the rest of my 70-plus years of life.
Most honest combat vets will tell you, perhaps not eloquently but in their own way, the same thing: essentially that combat is in our human DNA and demands to be exercised.
But as we're seeing now and in retrospect have seen in all wars past, war grinds the psyche down, and everyone has a limit before crumbling. Some succumb sooner while others have a higher tolerance and go on, reupping again and again. The question is, Can we humans evolve peacefully, or will we succumb to instincts we can't transcend?
ARNOLD REINER Pensacola, Fla., July 17, 2011
To the Editor:
Some years ago in Berlin, a memorial was erected to ''our war dead,'' the six million Germans who died in World War II. A bit later, someone covered the memorial with a new inscription: ''To all the dead of our wars.''
Is it possible to mourn all the deaths in a country's wars? I pondered the question recently in a visit to the war memorials in our National Mall in Washington: Vietnam, Korea, World War II. No marker in any of them expressing regret for an estimated three million dead in Vietnam, at least two million in Korea or those killed in the air wars and invasions of 1941 to 1945.
Not that Americans did all the killing. But such markers might honor our national faith that all human beings are worth the dignity of being remembered.
DONALD W. SHRIVER Jr. Chatham, N.Y., July 18, 2011
The writer is president emeritus of Union Theological Seminary and the author of ''Honest Patriots: Loving a Country Enough to Remember Its Misdeeds.''
To the Editor:
Sebastian Junger is correct: we need to understand better the complex dynamic of missing combat. And we need to do a better ''job of bringing [our combat veterans] home and making a place for them in our society.''
While Clausewitz's aphorism that ''war is the continuation of policy by other means'' may not be the whole story, it illustrates the real reason we need to understand our military power: We citizens ultimately bear collective responsibility for the wielding of that tool and its consequences.
Such greater understanding would be the truest ''signal to the world that our nation understands the costs of war.''
(Rev.) SHAUN S. BROWN San Diego, July 17, 2011
The writer is a Navy chaplain.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ELLIOT STOKES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); KOREAN WAR (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); WRITERS (78%); DNA (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); HELICOPTERS (67%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (67%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (67%); RELIGION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RETAILERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); VIET NAM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



706 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: The Consumer Bubble

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''We're Spent,'' by David Leonhardt (news analysis, Sunday Review, July 17): 
Describing the ''fizzling of the great consumer bubble'' as the prime cause of continuing high unemployment is a classic case of blaming the victims.
Why should consumers spend more when those who still have jobs don't know whether that will still be true three months from now, and when the elderly have to listen to politicians slavering at the prospect of cutting Social Security and Medicare, which millions of them depend on for survival? And why should consumers be blamed when businesses rescued by taxpayers are now sitting on mountains of cash rather than hiring new workers or, in the case of banks, lending to businesses so they can grow and hire people?
It was the bubble of Wall Street speculation that popped. Yet Wall Street, we hear, is back and standing tall, even dishing out the sort of exorbitant bonuses that fell into disrepute after the crash of 2008.
Yes, consumer debt is part of the problem -- though let's not forget that banks did everything they could to lure people into taking on more debt, whether or not they could afford it. But making it sound as if the lingering recession is the fault of a formerly spendthrift citizenry finally realizing that it's tapped out is unjustified and unfair.
ERIC B. LIPPS Staten Island, July 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); MEDICARE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



707 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: For the Next 6 Months, Cuomo Says He Will Concentrate on Creating Jobs

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, declaring the first phase of his governorship complete after a string of legislative victories, said Tuesday that he planned to devote the next six months to creating jobs, particularly in economically ailing communities upstate. 
Meeting with his cabinet at the Capitol, the governor said he was finishing up the establishment of 10 regional economic development councils, which will compete for $130 million in grants and tax credits to spur job creation.
''It's going to be fun; it's going to be different,'' Mr. Cuomo said of the coming months, when, for the most part, the Legislature will be out of session. ''We'll be out of Albany. We'll be on the road more. It's more operational. It's less legislative.''
He added, ''When you put the two pieces together, what we will have done in Albany and then what we'll do in communities, I think we'll have made a dramatic difference over the first year.''
Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat who took office in January, said he had allocated at least $10 million to start what he described as a new advertising and business outreach campaign to improve New York State's image and attract new companies to the state.
''We're going to try to replicate some of the magic from the 'I Love New York' campaign,'' Mr. Cuomo said, referring to the long-running state advertising effort. (The governor said that unlike former Gov. George E. Pataki, he would not appear in any advertisements.)
Speaking in the Red Room, his ceremonial office, the governor laid out his plans using his favorite medium -- a PowerPoint presentation. At times, he spoke as if he were a management consultant, describing the next six months as Phase 2 of his governorship and talking of the need to ''operationalize'' his agenda.
Mr. Cuomo said that he would convene a statewide economic development conference in September, and that the regional councils would submit grant proposals in November, with the state's money to be awarded shortly thereafter. He also said he and his cabinet would tour the state between now and the end of the year, traveling as a group to various cities.
During the legislative session that ended last month, Mr. Cuomo saw his most significant campaign priorities enacted, including a tightening of ethics rules, a cap on local property tax increases and the legalization of same-sex marriage.
''People are feeling good about the state,'' he said. ''This state is on a more positive trajectory than it has been in years, and it's only going to get better.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); ETHICS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



708 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Time Running Out For a Bank Chief

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and ROBERT COLE

 BODY:
Brian Moynihan, the chief of Bank of America, needs to kick it up a notch or two. He has spent much of his 18 months in the corner office cleaning up the mess left by his predecessor, Ken Lewis. But despite the yeoman efforts, he has failed to convince investors that he is turning the company around.
Another lackluster quarter won't help. It's not so much the huge $8.8 billion loss; that was the result of $20.1 billion of charges announced at the end of June to settle a raft of mortgage-related issues, so it was expected. But even without that, the underlying performance was still pretty dismal. 
After stripping out $3.1 billion of one-time pretax assistance from securities gains, investment dividends and the sale of the insurer Balboa and its remaining stake in BlackRock, net income was just $1.7 billion. That amounts to a paltry 3.3 percent annualized return on equity.
What's more, at around $33 billion, according to Citigroup, Bank of America's annualized pretax earnings before provisions for credit losses came in as much as a third below what management laid out earlier this year as its normalized expectations.
Granted, most banks are being dragged down by the sluggish recovery and fears of broader systemic problems, from the debt debate in the United States to the European crisis. But investors have whacked Bank of America more than many. The shares have fallen 10 percent since Mr. Moynihan announced the raft of mortgage charges last month; the stock of JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo are both up. Bank of America now trades at less than half its book value, or assets less liabilities.
That illuminates a lack of confidence in the company's earnings potential, its management, or both. Showing some sustainable improvement in the business performance is crucial. And perhaps some new blood would help; Mr. Moynihan's one major hire, Chuck Noski, lasted less than a year as finance chief. Mr. Moynihan should act fast. He may be running out of time to win investors over.
Fading Glitter
Compared to American equities, gold is expensive. You have to go back to the stagflation of the 1970s or the Depression of the 1930s to find a time when it was more valuable, relative to stocks. Today's worries could push it higher. But only the gloomiest can think gold will maintain its glittering trajectory.
Pictet Wealth Management, the Swiss private bank, points out that the value of the Dow Jones industrial average, which closed at 12,587 on Tuesday, is currently just less than eight times the dollar price of an ounce of gold, about $1,585. That ratio has been lower in the past: went down to five or below during the Great Depression, and again during the late 1970s and early 1980s. But during the equity bull market of the 1960s the Dow was worth 25 times the price of an ounce of gold. At the turn of the millennium, the ratio climbed to 40.
The comparison is far from flawless. For a start, examining the relationship between a stock average and the dollar price of a commodity is enough to make any self-respecting statistician blanch. Moreover, equities generate dividend income, while storing gold actually comes with a cost. Far from comparing apples with pears, this may be an exercise matching porcupines with parasols.
Even if the relationship withstands scrutiny, the explanation could be that shares are unusually cheap, not that gold is expensive. A demographic trend in which retiring baby boomers shift from equities to bonds has depressed share prices.
It is also possible that the world economy, especially in the West, will revisit the territory of the 1970s, if not the 1930s. The euro zone could yet fall apart, deterring economic activity and diminishing faith in fiat currencies. The United States is hardly in rude health, and a Chinese hard landing cannot be dismissed.
Still, you have to be pretty bearish to believe the Dow-to-gold ratio will plumb its previous lows. And even if it reaches or crosses that five times threshold, the explanation may be falling shares rather than rising bullion prices. Five times the current price of gold, in the Dow's terms, would imply a 35 percent drop in the benchmark. That kind of possibility can appeal only to the gloomiest bears.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gold bracelets may be attractive, but gold is expensive compared with stocks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAST IRHAM/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (86%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



709 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Defense Savings

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Pentagon's Financial Drawdown,'' by Gordon R. England (Op-Ed, July 15): The president's proposed reduction of $400 billion in Pentagon spending over a decade should not be referred to as a ''cut.'' It is measured relative to the Pentagon's unrealistic plans, not against current levels of spending. In fact, the $400 billion can be accommodated while letting the current budget grow with inflation. 
An across-the-board reduction in the rate of growth of Pentagon spending will not ''result in a hollowed-out force that will embolden our enemies,'' as Mr. England suggests. Over the last few years, United States military spending has been at post-World War II record levels, and it is almost as large as the military budgets of the rest of the world combined.
A small course correction will not significantly change this spending gap, regardless of how it is carried out.
WILLIAM D. HARTUNG New York, July 15, 2011
The writer is director of the Arms and Security Project at the Center for International Policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



710 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Sizzle Factor for a Restless Climate

BYLINE: By HEIDI CULLEN. 
Heidi Cullen, a scientist at Climate Central, a journalism and research organization, is the author of ''The Weather of the Future: Heat Waves, Extreme Storms, and Other Scenes From a Climate-Changed Planet.''

 BODY:
ENJOYING the heat wave?
The answer is probably no if you live in Abilene, Tex., where temperatures have been at or above 100 degrees for 40 days this summer. It's been a little cooler in Savannah, Ga., where the mercury hit 90 or more for 56 days in a row. Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma are coping with their driest nine-month stretch since 1895.
Yes, it has been a very hot summer after one of the most extreme-weather springs on record. It's time to face the fact that the weather isn't what it used to be. 
Every 10 years, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration recalculates what it calls climate ''normals,'' 30-year averages of temperature and precipitation for about 7,500 locations across the United States. The latest numbers, released earlier this month, show that the climate of the last 10 years was about 1.5 degrees warmer than the climate of the 1970s, and the warmest since the first decade of the last century. Temperatures were, on average, 0.5 degrees warmer from 1981 to 2010 than they were from 1971 to 2000, and the average annual temperatures for all of the lower 48 states have gone up.
For climate geeks like me, the new normals offer a fascinating and disturbing snapshot of a restless climate. The numbers don't take sides or point fingers. They acknowledge both powerful natural climate fluctuations as well as the steady drumbeat of warming caused by roughly seven billion people trying to live and prosper on a small planet, emitting heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the process.
Even this seemingly modest shift in climate can mean a big change in weather. Shifting weather patterns influence energy demand, affect crop productivity and lead to weather-related disasters. In the United States, in any given year, routine weather events like a hot day or a heavy downpour can cost the economy as much as $485 billion in crop losses, construction delays and travel disruptions, a recent study by the National Center for Atmospheric Research found. In other words, that extra 1.5 degrees might be more than we can afford.
And while the new normals don't point to a cause, climate science does. Drawing from methods used in epidemiology, a field of climate research called ''detection and attribution'' tests how human actions like burning fossil fuels affect climate and increase the odds of extreme weather events.
Heat-trapping pollution at least doubled the likelihood of the infamous European heat wave that killed more than 30,000 people during the summer of 2003, according to a study in the journal Nature in 2004. And if we don't ease our grip on the climate, summers like that one will likely happen every other year by 2040, the study warned. Human actions have warmed the climate on all seven continents, and as a result all weather is now occurring in an environment that bears humanity's signature, with warmer air and seas and more moisture than there was just a few decades ago, resulting in more extreme weather.
The snapshots of climate history from NOAA can also provide a glimpse of what's in store locally in the future. Using climate models, we can project what future Julys might look like. For example, by 2050, assuming we continue to pump heat-trapping pollution into our atmosphere at a rate similar to today's, New Yorkers can expect the number of July days exceeding 90 degrees to double, and those exceeding 95 degrees to roughly triple. Sweltering days in excess of 100 degrees, rare now, will become a regular feature of the Big Apple's climate in the 2050s.
The next time NOAA calculates its new temperature normals will be in 2021 -- when there will be about another billion people on the planet. Lady Gaga may no longer be hot. But the climate almost surely will be.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (86%); METEOROLOGY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



711 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Geography Report Card Finds Students Lagging

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Even as schools aim to better prepare students for a global work force, fewer than one in three American students are proficient in geography, with most eighth graders unable to explain what causes earthquakes or accurately describe the American Southwest, according to a report released Tuesday morning. 
Over all, high school seniors demonstrated the least proficiency on a 2010 test, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, also known as the nation's geography report card, with 20 percent found to be proficient or better, compared with 27 percent of eighth graders and 21 percent of fourth graders.
The average test score for 12th graders declined to 282 (on a scale of 500) from 284 in 2001 when the test was last given. It remained essentially unchanged for eighth graders during that period, though there were gains among the lowest-performing students. Fourth graders had the largest gains, with the average score rising to 213, up five points from 2001.
''Geography is not just about maps,'' said David P. Driscoll, chairman of the National Assessment Governing Board, who expressed concern that students were not doing better in geography. ''It is a rich and varied discipline that, now more than ever, is vital to understanding the connections between our global economy, environment and diverse cultures.''
The report found that boys scored higher than girls in all three grades, and that the average scores for black and Hispanic students in fourth and eighth grades were higher than in earlier tests.
Roger M. Downs, a geography professor at Pennsylvania State University who has studied the results, said that while he was encouraged by the improving test scores for fourth graders, and for low-performing and minority students, he was concerned that ''geography's role in the curriculum is limited and, at best, static.''
''That is ironic given the convincing case that can be made for the importance of geographic literacy,'' Mr. Downs said. ''But it is doubly ironic given a world in which adults and now children have smartphones and tablets that can download maps on the fly, provide directions to places, and give your location to your friends.''
The tests were given to a national sample of 7,000 fourth graders, 9,500 eighth graders, and 10,000 12th graders. The assessment program, which currently evaluates student progress in geography and eight other subjects, has also recently released scores in civics and history.
The geography test rated students' knowledge as basic, proficient or advanced, based partly on knowledge of space and place -- say, a particular place on Earth -- as well as environment and society and spatial dynamics and connections.
It also assessed students' cognitive skills through problem-solving questions. For instance, a fourth grader rated as proficient would be able to recognize factors that prevent soil erosion; one rated advanced would be able to use a map to understand city development, according to the report. A proficient eighth grader would be able to explain the effect of a monsoon in India.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); MEN (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); EROSION (50%); EROSION CONTROL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



712 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Are Higher, But Analysts Are Cautious

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The pace of new construction of private homes in the United States last month was the highest since January, according to government figures released on Tuesday. Economists, however, warned that the sector had still not stabilized for a full recovery. 
Builders broke ground at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 629,000 units in June, a rise of more than 14 percent compared with the previous month and a rate that was 16.7 percent higher than June 2010, the Department of Commerce reported.
It was the highest since January, when construction starts came in at a 636,000-unit annual rate.
The numbers are used as an indicator of future economic activity because of their implications for consumer spending, hiring, housing inventory, prices and other factors.
But the data is also volatile, subject to seasonal and other influences. A report on the statistics from Capital Economics economists said that the June survey reflected the severe weather in the previous months.
Last month's increase ''is not the start of a significant and sustained surge in home building,'' the report said. ''Instead, it reflects a rebound in activity after the unusually severe tornados and floods depressed starts in both April and May.''
The rate for construction starts on single-family homes was 453,000 in June, up 9.3 percent from May, while the rate for buildings with five units or more was 170,000, up 31.8 percent, the report said.
The report also said that permits for new construction, an indicator of future activity, rose by 2.5 percent from May to a seasonally adjusted rate of 624,000 in June. It was up 6.7 percent compared with June 2010.
Within that category, permits for multifamily units rose 6.9 percent to a 217,000 annual rate, the highest level since October 2008. The category was up in the South, West and Midwest, but down in the Northeast.
''For once in a long time, there was some good news in this report,'' said Patrick Newport, an economist at IHS Global Insight. ''The market for multifamily homes is coming back to life -- very slowly -- but the foundations are in place.
''But this is partly because the single-family market is falling so badly people are inclined to rent,'' he added.
The survey also showed that completion of new homes took place at a rate of 535,000, which was 1.7 percent higher than in May. With a glut of new homes already on the market, adding to the inventory would tend to dampen prices, economists said.
''The addition of new supply to the housing market isn't really constructive insofar as housing prices are concerned, but any uptick in new-home construction should offer some relief on the employment front,'' said Kevin H. Giddis, the executive managing director and president for fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan & Company, in a research note.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING STARTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); WEATHER (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



713 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: 16 People Arrested in Wave Of Attacks on Web Sites

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- In the most visible law enforcement response to a recent spate of online attacks, the Federal Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday announced the arrests of 16 people across the country in connection with strikes carried out by a loose, secretive federation of hackers called Anonymous.
In an indictment unsealed Tuesday afternoon in United States District Court in San Jose, Calif., 14 people were charged in connection with an attack on the Web site of the payment service PayPal last December, after the company suspended accounts set up for donating funds to WikiLeaks. The suspects, in 10 separate states, are accused of conspiring to ''intentionally damage protected computers.'' 
Anonymous had publicly called on its supporters to attack the sites of companies it said were turning against WikiLeaks, using tools that bombard sites with traffic and knock them offline.
A Florida man was also arrested and accused of breaching the Web site of Tampa InfraGard, an organization affiliated with the F.B.I., and then boasting of his actions on Twitter. And in New Jersey, a former contractor with AT&T was arrested on charges that he lifted files from that company's computer systems; the information was later distributed by LulzSec, a hacker collective that stemmed from Anonymous.
The PayPal attack came in response to the release by WikiLeaks last November of thousands of classified State Department cables. Members of Anonymous, a clique of worldwide hackers with a vague and ever-changing menu of grievances, have claimed responsibility for a number of attacks on government and corporate Web sites over the last eight months.
In recent weeks, police in Britain and the Netherlands have arrested several people suspected of having participated in those attacks. Justice Department officials said British and Dutch police also made related arrests on Tuesday. FoxNews.com reported Tuesday that the police in London had arrested a 16-year-old boy who they believed was a core member of LulzSec and used the alias Tflow.
The arrests of suspected Anonymous supporters in the United States were among the first known in this country.
Ross W. Nadel, a former federal prosecutor who founded the computer hacking and intellectual property unit at the Federal District Court in San Jose, said the arrests could be ''a highly visible form of deterrence.''
The prosecution is expected to face at least two major challenges, said Jennifer Granick, a San Francisco-based lawyer who specializes in computer crimes and has defended hackers in the past. Because hackers often use aliases and other people's computers when they carry out attacks, prosecutors will have to prove that those arrested ''were the ones with their fingers on the keyboard,'' she said.
Second, the conspiracy charge could be especially difficult to prove, given that Anonymous boasts of being leaderless and free-floating. ''When you have a decentralized group,'' Ms. Granick said, ''the question is, Are there big fish, and are any of these people big fish?''
The charge of ''intentional damage to a protected computer'' is punishable by a maximum of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine, while conspiracy carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
Cyberattacks are made possible by a combination of two features of the Internet economy. Poor security at many companies and agencies makes sensitive government and private data vulnerable to breaches. And mounting an attack is inexpensive and, with the right skills, relatively simple.
In the San Jose case, all 14 suspects are accused of using a free program called Low Orbit Ion Cannon to hurl large packets of data at PayPal's site with the intention of overwhelming it.
With the exception of one suspect, whose name was redacted by the court for reasons that federal officials did not explain, those arrested were identified by their real names and nicknames, ranging from Anthrophobic to Toxic to MMMM. Most were in their 20s, and just three were above the age of 30. It is unclear if any of them knew one another.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: F.B.I. agents searched a home on Long Island on Tuesday as part of the investigation into the hacking group Anonymous. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOXNEWS.COM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); ARRESTS (91%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); WEB SITES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); POLICE FORCES (86%); INDICTMENTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); JUVENILE CRIME (77%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



714 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Jordan's Protesters Ask Little, and Receive Less

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
AMMAN, Jordan -- Since January, when Jordan's protest movement started holding regular demonstrations, the marches have grown, and persisted, but have never reached a critical mass. Hobbled by infighting and outflanked by King Abdullah II and his security forces, the protesters keep calling for greater freedoms and an end to corruption, but remain frustrated that their regular gatherings -- sometimes only two-hour affairs -- have hastened no real change.
Their quandary was illustrated in the demonstrations this past weekend here in Amman. On Friday, riot police officers beat demonstrators trying to stage a sit-in during clashes that spilled into a busy market district.
On Saturday, a smaller group of protesters shut down traffic in another part of the city. The police did not interfere, and the gathering dispersed after a few hours. Afterward, opposition leaders were unsure what, if anything, had been accomplished. 
The protesters' demands seem modest compared with their counterparts in Egypt and Tunisia: a reform of the system, not its downfall. And yet, as those countries have evolved to the next stages of their revolutions, Jordanians still seem stuck deciding when, and how hard, to push.
The anger fueling the protests has not dissipated, and if anything, it has grown into broader doubts about the king's intentions. Those doubts are carefully expressed, since direct criticisms of the king, a close American ally, are banned.
''He does not want to be reformed,'' said Labib Kamhawi, a political analyst. ''He wants people to accept his definition of reform. During the past six years, corruption was so rampant.'' As a result, Jordan almost went bankrupt, he said. The king, he added, ''is not accepting that this issue needs to be addressed.''
Zaid el-Fayez, a businessman who attended the demonstration on Friday and who belongs to a tribe considered fiercely loyal to ruling Hashemite family, said: ''He can't see us. He can't hear us. He's acting like nothing is happening. Most of the Jordanian people are angry.''
Government officials argue that the king has already responded, promising to amend the Constitution and election and party laws, and move to a system where political parties and not the king appoint the prime minister. They say there is no easy fix to the country's dire economic problems, and that corruption accusations are convenient scapegoating.
The prime minister, Marouf al-Bakhit, acknowledged the frustrations of the protesters, but said some of the demands, especially regarding corruption, reflected impatience. ''They want me to hang someone, and later, look at his case,'' he said.
The genesis of the protests in Jordan included a worker's strike in the port city of Aqaba in 2009 and dissent from retired army officers last year. They started in earnest six months ago, when Mohamed al-Snaid, a water pump operator dismissed from a government job, gathered laborers in Dhiban, south of Amman, to protest poor working conditions. Hundreds of others joined, and a week later demonstrations spread to other cities.
The authorities have occasionally intervened to forcibly contain the dissent. In March, riot police officers and government loyalists injured scores of protesters who had pitched a tent camp intended to imitate Cairo's Tahrir Square.
The foreign minister, Nasser Judeh, argued that Jordan's reaction to the protests was mild compared with those of other Arab countries. ''It's very difficult to forget that not a single bullet was fired,'' he said. ''We deal with things in a civilized way. The system is listening and the system is responding. In Jordan, reform is led by the king.''
But some protest leaders, deeply skeptical, say they plan to escalate both their statements and their activism. Their attempt at a sit-in on Friday seemed to reflect a new approach.
Other activists said that slogans shouted at marches already make more direct references to the king -- tying him, for example, to the cheap sale of public land to private companies. ''Abdullah, son of Hussein,'' goes one chant, heard at protests recently outside of Amman. ''Where is the land, where?''
Kamal Khoury, a 25-year-old protester allied with a leftist movement, said: ''Something has broken -- some kind of silence. More and more people are speaking about the king.''
But the protesters face long odds. Many of their problems are self-inflicted, by a fractured movement that has argued about ideology and tactics. A coalition that includes young people, leftists and workers stopped marching with the Muslim Brotherhood, accusing it of trying to hijack the movement and secretly collaborating with the government.
Jordan's foreign allies have provided the king valuable cover, including Saudi Arabia, the kingdom's most generous financial benefactor, and the United States, which provides political and military support. An invitation to Jordan to join a regional grouping of Arab states -- also extended to Morocco -- is seen as another attempt to strengthen a friendly monarchy in a turbulent times.
The authorities have also undermined the opposition by exploiting Jordan's deep schism, between so-called East Bank Jordanians and citizens of Palestinian origin, over fears that the Palestinians are trying to take over the country.
And online activists say dissent has brought government hackers to their Web sites or led to arrests. Alaa Fazzaa, a journalist, was arrested in May for linking to a page that advocated naming King Abdullah's half brother, Prince Hamzah, as crown prince.
In an Amman coffee house on Saturday, under portraits of King Abdullah, a diverse band of opposition figures, including retired officers, tribal sheiks and young activists, talked about ways to heal wounds in the opposition movement. When a speaker opened by saluting the Hashemite family, several attendees walked out but were coaxed back inside.
''We are still fragmented. This will lead to defeat, '' said Nahed Hattar, a leftist opposition leader, extending an olive branch to the Muslim Brotherhood, which he has strongly criticized. Later he qualified his words, saying the Islamist movement should participate in, not lead, the movement.
Outside of Amman, the protest movement is showing mixed results. In many places demonstrations are expanding.
The protests in Tafilah started two months ago, spanning generations and ideological divides, according to Zaid el-Mohaysin, a protest leader there. They were united by economic concerns and the feeling that their complaints were ignored. ''Before, people were scared to show their opposition,'' he said.
The king visited Tafilah, ''and he didn't listen,'' Mr. Mohaysin said. ''It was a failed visit.''
In other places, though, the anger has been put aside, for the moment. Mr. Snaid, who helped start the protests six months ago, said the demonstrations in Dhiban were suspended recently after a visit from the king, and promises.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pro-government demonstrators carried a portrait of King Abdullah II of Jordan during a rally in Amman on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); POLITICS (88%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); STRIKES (74%); ARMIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (94%) JORDAN (95%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



715 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Hold Back, Hurting Profit at Bank of America and Wells Fargo

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Ben Protess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Even as the big banks stanch their losses, they are reckoning with an unfortunate reality: the anemic recovery is hurting their results.
Second-quarter numbers on Tuesday from the nation's two biggest consumer lenders, Bank of America and Wells Fargo, showed the toll the sluggish economy was taking on revenue growth. As Americans increasingly dig out of debt, lenders' income is being reduced by a fall-off in mortgages, credit card and other types of consumer loans.
Bank of America reported an $8.8 billion loss, after taking a $20 billion hit to clean up a raft of mortgage problems. Yet underlying revenue fell around 10 percent, excluding all those big charges. 
Wells Fargo reported a record profit of $3.95 billion, up 29 percent from the second quarter of 2010, even though a slowdown in mortgage lending contributed to a 5 percent drop in overall revenue. At Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, strong investment banking fees helped offset the weaker results of their domestic consumer banking units when they reported earnings last week.
It is no secret that the American economy is still ailing. Even though the recession technically may be over, home prices are falling again, the unemployment rate is above 9 percent and consumer confidence has been shattered by the disappearance of more than $1 trillion of stock market wealth since the market's peak in July 2007.
Scarred by the tumultuous events of the last few years, consumers are paying off their debts and are reluctant to take out new loans. Over all, lending is expected to fall about 1.1 percent from last year, and is down more than 10 percent from its peak shortly before the financial crisis in mid-2008, according to data from Trepp, a financial research firm.
Credit card and mortgage lending have fared even worse. Outstanding loan balances on each have fallen more than 3 percent since last year, with residential mortgages dropping over 13 percent since the crisis, according to Trepp data.
''It's a reflection of weak consumer demand. But it's also a consequence because after the losses in the financial crisis, the lending criteria is tough,'' said Frederick Cannon, a banking analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in New York.
Other parts of the banking business have picked up. Corporate lending, for example, has shown signs of modest growth as companies invest in improving their operations. According to a Citigroup analysis of about 700 nonfinancial public companies, planned capital spending has increased 16.7 percent from last year and has even accelerated in the last three months. That bodes well for both the recovery - and the banks.
''Corporate spending is the biggest driver for turning our economy right now, and that is why I am encouraged,'' said Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup's chief investment strategist.
But perhaps the best news for the financial industry is that loan losses continue to ease. Bankers say that the pipeline of troubled loans is dwindling. Those made during the boom years are being purged from the system, and the ones that came after carried more stringent terms.
As a result, the bankers have more confidence to withdraw funds that they had previously set aside to cover future losses.
Bank of America, for instance, released about $2.4 billion, largely as a result of fewer borrowers delaying or defaulting on their credit card payments.
Wells Fargo reversed about $1 billion of reserves after losses declined for six consecutive quarters and troubled loans fell the last three. Citigroup and JPMorgan also announced reserve releases of about $1 billion each.
Still, stopping the spill of red ink is one thing. Expanding revenue is another. And here, the sluggish consumer economy has offered big banks little relief.
Although largely obscured by the strong results of its investment bank, revenue fell at almost all of Bank of America's consumer businesses. Only its brokerage unit reported an increase.
Bank of America's mortgage unit said that taking more than $15.5 billion in charges to cover a proposed investor settlement and higher operating costs would help put its problems behind it. Even so, mortgage banking income fell 42 percent from a year ago, to $824 million, because of a drop in consumer demand.
Revenue from Bank of America's deposits business fell over 10 percent, squeezed by changes it made to its overdraft policies in light of more restrictive regulations. Bank of America's big credit card division was harder hit. Credit card revenue fell about 20 percent, to $5.5 billion, largely because of lower average loan balances and interest rates.
Consumers are just not borrowing like they used to, said Bruce Thompson, Bank of America's new chief financial officer.
''We're seeing consumers spending money but not necessarily borrowing more,'' he said. And they won't take on more debt until they are ''more confident about the economy.''
At Wells Fargo, like at Bank of America, new rules curbing overdraft charges and a slowdown in its mortgage business chipped away at income. Mortgage banking revenue fell nearly 20 percent, to $1.6 billion, during the quarter without a refinance boom to prop up its results.
Wells Fargo executives said the strength of other parts of their franchise, like their retirement business and corporate bank, helped the bank power through a difficult business environment. And bucking industry trends, its credit card business, smaller than most of its peers, saw a slight increase in loan balance by picking up market share.
Still, in a sign of concern about their long-term growth prospects, Wells Fargo executives walked investors through a detailed cost-cutting initiative called Project Compass that aims to keep expenses in check.
''Revenue remains king around here,'' said John Stumpf, Wells Fargo's chief executive, in a conference call with investors. ''We think that by becoming more efficient, we can actually grow revenue faster.''
Ben Protess contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); HOME PRICES (51%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



716 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Google Looks for the Next Google

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- Google thinks it can be young and crazy again. And it is betting $200 million that it is right.
In the hottest market for technology start-up companies in over a decade, the Silicon Valley behemoth is playing venture capitalist in a rush to discover the next Facebook or Zynga.
Other pedigreed tech companies are doing the same, as venture capital dollars coming from corporations approach levels last seen in the dot-com bubble era of 2000.
To some, it is a telltale sign of an overheated industry, symptomatic of a late and ill-advised rush to invest during good times. But Google says it has a weapon to guide it in picking investments -- a Google-y secret sauce, which means using data-driven algorithms to analyze the would-be next big thing. 
Never mind that there often is very little data because the companies are so young, and that most venture capitalists say investing is more of an art than a science. At Google, even art is quantifiable.
''Investing is being in a dark room and trying to find the way out,'' said Bill Maris, the managing partner of Google Ventures, the corporate investment arm. ''If you have a match, you should light it.''
Corporate venture funds invested $583 million in start-ups in the first three months of the year, according to the National Venture Capital Association, up from $443 million in the same period last year and $245 million in 2009, before tech investing began its rapid turnaround.
Today, 10 percent of venture capital dollars comes from corporations, nearing the previous bubble-era high of 15 percent in 2000. Facebook, Zynga and Amazon.com are investing in social media start-ups. AOL Ventures restarted last year after three previous efforts, and Intel Capital expects to invest more this year than the $327 million it invested last year.
Google Ventures says it has invested as much money in the first half of this year as in all of last, and Larry Page, the company's co-founder, who became chief executive this spring, has promised to keep the coffers wide open.
Corporate venture arms have sprung into action before during boom times, like the early 1980s and the late 1990s, but they have had mixed records.
''When the corporate guys get involved, it usually means that we're at the top of the market,'' said Andrew S. Rachleff, who teaches venture capital at Stanford and was a founder of Benchmark Capital, the venture firm.
Mr. Rachleff also questioned Google's reliance on its algorithms. ''There's no analysis to be done when you're evaluating a company that's creating a new market, because there's no market to analyze,'' he said. ''You have to apply judgment.''
Although even Mr. Maris compares venture investing to ''buying lottery tickets,'' Google says it has faith in its algorithms. At the same time, it is taking the unusual step of providing the chosen start-ups with access to its 28,770 employees for engineering, recruiting and business advice, and offering office space at the Googleplex and classes on building a business.
Mr. Page, who declined a request for an interview, has already promised Google Ventures $200 million this year and says a virtually unlimited amount is available, Mr. Maris said, as Google reconnects with its start-up roots. ''I've had conversations with Larry when he says, 'Do as much as you can, as fast as you can in as big and disruptive a way as possible,' '' he said.
Google says its approach is paying off. One of its investments, Ngmoco, was acquired by a Japanese gaming company, DeNA, for up to $400 million, and another, HomeAway, for renting vacation homes, received a warm welcome from investors when it went public last month. A third, Silver Spring Networks, a smart-grid company, filed to go public last week.
Google Ventures invests in various areas -- the Web, biotechnology and clean technology. It puts large amounts of money into mature companies, but it is also investing small amounts in 100 new companies this year.
To make its picks, the company has built computer algorithms using data from past venture investments and academic literature. For example, for individual companies, Google enters data about how long the founders worked on start-ups before raising money and whether the founders successfully started companies in the past.
It runs similar information about potential investments through the algorithms to get a red, yellow or green light.
Google says the algorithms have taught it valuable lessons, from obvious ones (entrepreneurs who have started successful companies are more likely to do it again) to less obvious ones (start-ups located far from the venture capitalist's office are more likely to be successful, probably because the firm has to go out of its way to finance the start-up.)
Start-ups backed by Google Ventures can work in a 20,000-square-foot space at the Googleplex, supplied with a Ping-Pong table and a snack-filled kitchen. In exchange, they make a $5-a-month donation to the barbecue fund.
But the company offers a lot more than space, say the chosen entrepreneurs. Adimab, a biotech company, is using free space on Google's enormous servers. EnglishCentral, an English-language education site, tested its coursework and accents for Japanese speakers with employees in Google's Japan office. Google shared a contact list for airport chief information officers with Scvngr, a mobile gaming company, when it wanted to partner with airports.
Craig Walker, a serial entrepreneur who recently started Firespotter Labs, backed by Google Ventures, said a Google recruiter had helped him hire engineers.
''A lot of times V.C.'s will say, 'We're not just money, we're value-add,' and I've always been somewhat doubtful of those claims,'' Mr. Walker said. ''With Google Ventures, those claims are completely justified.''
Still, some entrepreneurs who have worked with Google Ventures say Google's drive to analyze everything exhaustively, even for small investments in untried companies, slows the investment process when compared with other firms.
Google Ventures also turns to Google employees to find investment ideas. It offers $10,000 to anyone who suggests a start-up that results in an investment. And the company has invested in three of the ex-Google employees who have been leaving as the company grows.
Like the entrepreneurs, Mr. Maris has learned a lesson from Google: meet founders, even if their start-up idea sounds crazy.
Fifteen years ago, a friend of his, Anne Wojcicki, suggested he meet a couple of engineers who were working on a start-up in her sister's garage, but he declined. The start-up was Google, which still makes him cringe.
''It's ironic I'm running the venture business now,'' Mr. Maris said, ''because I missed the biggest venture idea of all time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Krane, speaking, and Bill Maris, in blue, of Google Ventures, which invested as much in the first half as in all of 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); STARTUPS (91%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (95%); INTEL CORP (84%); BENCHMARK CAPITAL (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (95%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



717 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Negotiating Election Headwinds

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Maybe it's not the economy, stupid.
White House officials have begun to entertain the idea that they can run for re-election without being able to point to a strengthening economy. For one thing, they may not have a choice. For another, they believe that recent Republican budget proposals have given President Obama an opportunity to draw contrasts in which he is more in line with most voters.
The clearest statement of this idea has come from David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's top political adviser. ''The average American does not view the economy through the prism of G.D.P. or unemployment rates or even monthly jobs numbers,'' Mr. Plouffe said at a recent Bloomberg Breakfast here. ''People won't vote based on the unemployment rate. They're going to vote based on: 'How do I feel about my own situation? Do I believe the president makes decisions based on me and my family?' '' 
Not surprisingly, Republicans seized on the comment to say the White House was out of touch. They are preparing to follow the path of not only Ronald Reagan's 1980 campaign, but also -- in slogans, if not policies -- Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign, which coined ''It's the economy, stupid.''
Mr. Obama's advisers, meanwhile, are looking for lessons from re-election bids that overcame a first-term rise in unemployment, like those of George W. Bush, Richard Nixon and Dwight Eisenhower, Republicans all. That's a turnabout from the Obama team's initial plan to base its re-election campaign on the economy's progress since 2008.
The White House approach certainly does come with caveats. Mr. Obama and his aides are well aware that the economy is the biggest threat to his re-election. Their 2012 campaign will be filled with talk of the economic crisis the administration inherited. And administration officials say they will continue to push for steps to put people back to work, like road construction, that Congressional Republicans have blocked.
But you can already see how the White House strategy is affecting the fights that it chooses to have and, by extension, the economic and political risks it takes.
In the debt ceiling talks, Mr. Obama has not made new stimulus his top priority. He has instead pushed for a grand bargain that would sharply reduce the deficit. His calculation seems to be that any stimulus he could win from Republicans would have only a minor effect on job growth -- and come with a political cost.
By now, many Americans are at best skeptical of stimulus. If Mr. Obama argued for more temporary tax cuts and spending, he might be able to increase popular support for such measures and make them a bigger part of a debt ceiling deal. (For the deficit to fall, the steps would obviously have to be offset by larger spending cuts or tax increases.) Yet by pushing for new stimulus, he would also tie himself ever closer to the troubled economy and the unpopular policies to help it.
His attempt at a big deficit-reduction package -- which seemed to come back from the dead on Tuesday -- allows him to project a different image. He takes on the moderate role of fiscal conservative, looking to cut spending and increase taxes on the affluent. The refusal of many Republicans to consider such a package, Mr. Obama noted last week, puts them to the right of most Republican voters, polls show. House Republicans have opposed any tax increase and have instead proposed an overhaul of Medicare.
So far, many political observers believe Mr. Obama has played his hand well. Amy Walter, political director of ABC News, wrote this week that the president's approval rating -- 48 percent, hardly stellar -- was still ''remarkably high given the level of economic pessimism.''
Yet the White House strategy of not trying absolutely everything in its power to lift economic growth has drawbacks, politically and economically.
The stimulus of the last three and a half years has mostly worked. The best six months of economic growth, in late 2009, came on the heels of the maximum effort from the Federal Reserve, Congress and the White House. Late last year, the Obama administration persuaded Republicans to agree to a smaller stimulus package, which extended jobless benefits and temporarily cut the payroll tax for households, as part of the deal to extend the Bush tax cuts.
Still, the economy continues to struggle. That's the normal pattern after a giant debt bubble pops. A full recovery takes years and years. Consumers and businesses remain reluctant to spend. The less aggressive the government is in filling the void, the weaker the recovery tends to be.
White House officials are no doubt correct that the most ambitious ideas -- say, a huge new federal program to rebuild roads, bridges and other infrastructure -- have no political chance. They are also correct that economic policy would have been more aggressive if they had been able to dictate legislation. And those of us outside the debt ceiling negotiating room cannot fully know what is and isn't possible.
But there do seem to be options within the realm of plausibility, and it is not too late to pursue them. The negotiation over the debt ceiling is, after all, a negotiation.
One option would be an immediate extension of the payroll tax cut, which is set to expire on Jan. 1, to give consumers and businesses more confidence. By waiting until the end of the year to announce an extension, Washington would end up paying all of the budgetary cost without getting the full economic benefit.
Perhaps the most intriguing idea is a 2010 proposal from Mr. Obama to give a $5,000 tax credit for each net new worker that a business hires. The credit aims at the economy's main problem -- a lack of jobs -- and its annual cost is a mere $35 billion, easily offset by longer-term cuts to domestic programs or the military. Yes, it died in Congress last year. But given the ongoing slump, does abandoning the idea make sense?
Four years after the mortgage-bond market first quivered, the share of Americans with jobs has again fallen to its recent nadir. Yet Washington is occupied with another crisis, one that's entirely self-imposed. The bond market would be ecstatic if the federal government simply lifted its debt ceiling, as it always has before. Congress can make this problem go away whenever it wants.
The jobs crisis is different. Solving it will take a whole lot of work. Right now, there are not many people trying to do that work.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ronald Reagan in 1980, top, and Bill Clinton in 1992. Both defeated sitting presidents who were mired in tough economies. The Obama campaign, with November 2012 in mind, has a strategy that so far has some potential drawbacks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, ASSOCIATED PRESS
 BELOW, CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (57%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



718 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Pledges Up to $100 Million in City Aid to Develop an Engineering School

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg raised his offer on Tuesday to universities interested in setting up a school of engineering and applied sciences in New York City: along with practically free use of a swath of land, the city will contribute as much as $100 million.
Mr. Bloomberg publicly presented an invitation to universities to bid on the chance to create a campus, either on one of three city-owned properties or elsewhere in the city. Issuing the request for proposals is the latest step officials have taken to try to make New York more competitive with Silicon Valley as a hub for technology-based businesses. 
''During the 1980s and '90s, Silicon Valley - not New York City - became the world's capital of technology startups, and that is still true today,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in a speech at a conference on the city's future at the Grand Hyatt hotel in Midtown. ''But if am right, and if we succeed in this mission, it won't be true forever.'' City officials say the school could prompt as much as $6 billion in economic activity by creating 30,000 temporary and permanent jobs and, more important, by fostering innovations that could become big businesses. They argue that the city's financial contribution, which would come from its capital budget over several years, would pay off in increased tax revenue and economic growth.
Mr. Bloomberg said he was encouraged by the ''strong response'' the city received to a call late last year for schools to express interest in the idea. The city received 18 submissions that involved 27 institutions from around the world - some teamed up to present ideas - and used those ideas to help focus the offer. Among the most enthusiastic bidders were Cornell and Stanford Universities.
In December, the first invitation identified four city-owned properties as potential sites for a new campus: the south end of Roosevelt Island in the East River, part of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, parts of Governors Island in the harbor and the Farm Colony on Staten Island. The Staten Island site has been dropped from consideration because it was not appealing enough to the first respondents, city officials said.
Cornell and Stanford each chose the Goldwater Hospital campus on Roosevelt Island as the place it would want to develop a campus. Stanford said it envisioned an investment of as much as $1 billion in a school that would have about 100 professors and 2,200 graduate students.
At the time, city officials had not indicated how much financial help they were willing to provide. But the mayor said Tuesday that the city would invest ''up to $100 million in infrastructure upgrades'' in the proposal that is selected.
But Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the less city money a bidder asked for, the better its chances of winning the competition would be.
Cornell has not yet said how much it thinks its proposal would cost, said David J. Skorton, the university's president. But he said the school's trustees were ''just thrilled'' at the prospect of setting up a ''revolutionary campus'' in the city, which has long been home to its medical school, Weill Cornell Medical College.
''This is going to be a complete campus, not an annex of Ithaca or a way station,'' Dr. Skorton said.
Stanford's president, John L. Hennessy, said that his university would submit a formal proposal. ''A Stanford New York campus is a unique opportunity to launch another center of innovation on the East Coast,'' Dr. Hennessy said in a statement. ''New York will be a dynamic partner, drawing talented people from around the world.''
Some schools based in the city have complained that Mr. Bloomberg has overlooked them in his pursuit of a big-name school from elsewhere. But city officials say that any university with a highly rated school of engineering or applied sciences is welcome to bid, even those like New York University or Columbia University that have their main campuses in Manhattan.
''Universities from around the country, and some from around the world, have expressed interest in our offer,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in his speech. ''And that's how it should be, because we are an international city - and a city that believes in free competition.''
The tight schedule for the project indicates that the mayor would like ground to be broken for the school before he leaves office. Bidders face a deadline of Oct. 28 to submit their proposals, and city officials hope to choose a winning bidder by the end of the year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%)

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (56%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



719 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Panel Calling for Free-Contraceptive Coverage

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A leading medical advisory panel recommended on Tuesday that all insurers be required to cover contraceptives for women free of charge as one of several preventive services under the new health care law.
Obama administration officials said that they were inclined to accept the panel's advice and that the new requirements could take effect for many plans at the beginning of 2013. The administration signaled its intentions in January when Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, unveiled a 10-year program to improve the nation's health. One goal was to ''increase the proportion of health insurance plans that cover contraceptive supplies and services.''
Administration officials, who say they hope to act on the recommendations by Aug. 1, are receptive to the idea of removing cost as a barrier to birth control -- a longtime goal of advocates for women's rights and experts on women's health. 
But the recommendations immediately reignited debate over the government's role in reproductive health. Women's groups and medical professionals applauded the recommendations while the Roman Catholic Church raised strenuous objections.
The recommendations came in a report submitted to Ms. Sebelius by the Institute of Medicine, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences. The new health care law says insurers must cover ''preventive health services'' and cannot charge for them. Ms. Sebelius will decide on a minimum package of essential health benefits, and her decision will not require further action by Congress.
The panel said insurers should be forbidden to charge co-payments for contraceptives and other preventive services because even small charges could deter their use. The recommendation would not help women without insurance.
The administration asked the Institute of Medicine, a nonpartisan, nongovernmental arm of the National Academy of Sciences, to help identify the specific services that must be covered for women.
''This report is historic,'' Ms. Sebelius said on Tuesday in accepting the document. ''Before today, guidelines regarding women's health and preventive care did not exist. These recommendations are based on science and existing literature.''
In addition to contraceptive services for women, the panel recommended that the government require health plans to cover screening to detect domestic violence; screening for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS; and counseling and equipment to promote breastfeeding, including the free rental of breast pumps.
The panel also said all insurers should be required to cover screening for gestational diabetes in pregnant women; DNA testing for the human papillomavirus as part of cervical cancer screening; and annual preventive-care visits. Such visits could include prenatal care and preconception care, to make sure women are healthy when they become pregnant.
Defending its recommendations on contraceptive coverage, the panel said that nearly half of all pregnancies in the United States were unintended, and that about 40 percent of unintended pregnancies ended in abortion. Thus, it said, greater use of contraception would reduce the rates of unintended pregnancy, teenage pregnancy and abortion.
The chairwoman of the panel, Dr. Linda Rosenstock, dean of the School of Public Health at the University of California, Los Angeles, said, ''We did not consider cost or cost-effectiveness in our deliberations.''
But the panel's report says that ''contraception is highly cost-effective,'' averting unintended pregnancies that would be far more expensive than contraception.
To reduce unintended pregnancies, the panel said, insurers should cover the full range of contraceptive methods approved by the Food and Drug Administration, as well as sterilization procedures and ''education and counseling for all women with reproductive capacity.''
This recommendation would require coverage of emergency contraceptives including pills like ella and Plan B, panel members said.
Under rules issued last year, many health plans are already required to cover numerous preventive services like blood pressure and cholesterol tests, colonoscopies and other cancer screenings, and routine vaccinations. A provision of the law drafted by Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, requires coverage of ''additional preventive care and screenings'' for women.
Most private insurance provides contraceptive coverage, but co-payments have increased in recent years, the panel said.
The report touched off a fierce debate Tuesday. Obstetricians, gynecologists, public health experts and Democratic women in Congress hailed the recommendations.
''We are one step closer to saying goodbye to an era when simply being a woman is treated as a pre-existing condition,'' Ms. Mikulski said. ''We are saying hello to an era where decisions about preventive care and screenings are made by a woman and her doctor, not by an insurance company.''
Representative Lois Capps, Democrat of California, said the recommendations would remove cost as a barrier to birth control -- and in hard economic times like these, she said, cost can be a formidable barrier.
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and some conservative groups, including the Family Research Council, denounced the recommendation on birth control.
''Pregnancy is not a disease, and fertility is not a pathological condition to be suppressed,'' said Deirdre A. McQuade, a spokeswoman for the bishops' Pro-Life Secretariat. ''But the Institute of Medicine report treats them as such.''
Ms. McQuade expressed deep concern about requiring coverage of surgical sterilizations and contraceptive drugs and devices.
Jeanne Monahan, the director of the Center for Human Dignity at the Family Research Council, said: ''Some people have moral or ethical objections to contraceptives. They should not be forced to violate their conscience by paying premiums to health plans that cover these items and services.''
One panel member, Prof. Anthony Lo Sasso, a health economist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, filed a dissent, saying the committee did not have enough time to conduct ''a serious and systematic review'' of the evidence.
The report, he said, includes ''a mix of objective and subjective determinations filtered through a lens of advocacy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACEPTION (92%); INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); BREASTFEEDING (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); VIRUSES (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); AIDS & HIV (68%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (68%); RELIGION (66%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (63%); DNA (62%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (60%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (60%); DIABETES TESTING (60%); DNA TESTING (60%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); CERVICAL CANCER (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (52%); CANCER (50%); DIABETES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (55%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



720 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Plan For Budget Deal Buoys President

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama seized on the re-emergence of an ambitious bipartisan budget plan in the Senate on Tuesday to invigorate his push for a big debt-reduction deal, and he summoned Congressional leaders back to the bargaining table this week to ''start talking turkey.''
The bipartisan proposal from the so-called Gang of Six senators to reduce deficits by nearly $4 trillion over the coming decade -- and its warm reception from 43 other senators of both parties -- renewed hopes for a deal days after talks between Mr. Obama and Congressional leaders had reached an impasse.
Financial markets rallied on the news. And with time running out before the deadline of Aug. 2 to raise the government's $14.3 trillion debt ceiling, Mr. Obama's quick embrace of the plan left House Republicans at greater risk of being politically isolated on the issue if they continue to rule out any compromise that includes higher tax revenues. 
Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader who has led opposition to any deal including tax increases, later issued a statement saying the bipartisan Senate plan includes ''some constructive ideas to deal with our debt.''
But Mr. Cantor stopped far short of endorsing it. And House Republicans passed legislation on Tuesday evening calling for deep spending cuts and the adoption of a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. Though the legislation has no chance of passing the Senate, the 234-to-190 vote was a symbolic statement by conservatives heading into the end game of a confrontation whose economic and political stakes are hard to overstate.
The Senate group's plan, modeled on the recommendations last year of a bipartisan fiscal commission established by Mr. Obama, calls for both deep spending cuts and new revenues through an overhaul of the income-tax code.
But while its sponsorship by staunch conservatives as well as liberals suggested enough flexibility within both parties to get a deal eventually, it would be all but impossible to turn it into detailed legislation -- at the moment it is a four-page outline -- and pass it in less than two weeks. Both parties were considering ways to use the proposal as the basis for a broader budget agreement if they can find a way to get past the immediate pressure to increase the debt limit.
Tuesday marked the return to the bipartisan Senate group of Senator Tom Coburn, a conservative Republican of Oklahoma, two months after he abandoned the effort by two other Republicans and three Democrats to reach a deal, saying it would not cut spending enough. On Monday he had laid out his own $9 trillion debt-reduction plan, but acknowledged it could not be passed.
Mr. Coburn's willingness to sign on to the bipartisan approach signaled that at least some conservatives, having made their principled point, might now be ready to bargain.
And Republicans increasingly are showing signs of splintering. Some conservatives within Congress and outside have become increasingly vocal in asserting that the party is at risk of putting ideological purity ahead of the chance for a major deficit reduction that includes substantial Democratic concessions, including cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid spending.
In appearing in the White House briefing room just hours after the Gang of Six went public with its proposal, Mr. Obama sought to use the development to increase the pressure on House Republicans even as they moved toward a vote on their bill.
The bill passed by the House would slash spending for next year, cap future spending levels and advance a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. Its passage was a rejoinder of sorts to a plan hatched by the Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, that would allow Republicans to accede to a $2.4 trillion increase in the government's debt limit without actually voting for it, but also without the dollar-for-dollar spending cuts that House Republicans had demanded in return.
The House bill ''isn't the easy choice,'' said Representative Rich Nugent, Republican of Florida, ''but it's the right choice.''
House Democrats excoriated the Republican plan, which they said would devastate entitlement programs though the mandatory spending cuts as a result of the cap. ''Regardless of what other parts of this bill say,'' said Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, ''there is no way to meet these goals without destroying Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, veterans' programs, and military preparedness.''
Democrats are certain to make the House Republicans' proposal an issue in the 2012 elections, along with the House Republicans' budget passed earlier this year that would remake Medicare and Medicaid. But most attention shifted to the Gang of Six blueprint, and the reaction to it from the White House and Congressional leaders, who were cooler to it than Mr. Obama.
While Mr. Obama said he did not agree with all of the senators' plan, by his endorsement of its thrust and his remarks to reporters, he plainly sought to isolate further the House Republicans.
''We have a Democratic president and administration that is prepared to sign a tough package that includes both spending cuts and modifications to Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare that would strengthen those systems'' while also providing new revenues, Mr. Obama said. And, he added, ''we now have a bipartisan group of senators'' and a majority of Americans who agree with such a balanced approach.
Forty-nine senators, 25 Democrats and 24 Republicans, were present for a closed-door meeting in the Capitol where those in the Gang of Six, except Mr. Coburn, outlined the debt-reduction plan that had been seven months in the works.
''It is early to say, but their timing is good,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. He added, ''It helps that the three Republicans senators are three of the most conservative, most respected members of the Senate who are Republicans.''
Besides Mr. Coburn, those are Senators Michael D. Crapo of Idaho and Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, who formed the group with Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia. The other two Democrats are Senators Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Kent Conrad of North Dakota, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee.
A spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner said, ''This plan shares many similarities with the framework the speaker discussed with the president, but also appears to fall short in some important areas.''
The timing displeased both Senate leaders -- the majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, and Mr. McConnell -- who have been negotiating the fallback plan to raise the debt limit that Mr. McConnell initiated last week. At a closed-door luncheon for Democratic senators, Mr. Reid gave Mr. Warner 24 hours to develop a plan on how to move forward -- a challenge the Gang of Six met later to discuss.
''I'm happy to work and use anything in the Gang of Six that we can,'' Mr. Reid said. ''But remember we only have 13 days -- 13 days -- and there's a number of senators who have said they'll do everything they can to stop the debt ceiling from being increased, that they would in effect allow us to default on our debt.''
After the Republican senators' luncheon, Mr. McConnell said of the Gang of Six outline, ''I haven't had a chance to decide how I feel about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama said at a briefing Tuesday that he saw promise in a Gang of Six budget.
 House Republicans demanded that Mr. Obama give Congress a written debt-ceiling proposal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); TAX INCREASES (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); TOM COBURN (58%); ERIC CANTOR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



721 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Profits and Debt Plan Prompt Market Rebound

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Strong corporate profits and a bipartisan plan to lift the federal debt limit drove a stock market rebound on Tuesday.
Stock indexes rose after Coca-Cola, I.B.M. and other companies reported better second-quarter earnings. The indexes extended their gains in the afternoon after President Obama backed a proposal by six senators to cut the federal debt by $3.7 trillion over the next decade and raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. 
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 202.26 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 12,587.42. It was the Dow's largest one-day gain this year.
''It looks like there's bipartisan support for a robust plan,'' said Burt White, chief investment officer at LPL Financial in Boston. ''The stock market had been looking for a reason to have a relief rally. And it looks like they got the start of one today.''
The deadlock in Washington over raising the federal borrowing limit and Europe's debt crisis have weighed on markets this month. The Dow slid in five of the last seven days.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 21.29 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 1,326.73 on Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index gained 61.41 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,826.52.
Tuesday's gains turned the major indexes positive for the month. The Dow and Nasdaq are up more than 1 percent in July. The S.& P. 500 is up 0.5 percent.
Information technology stocks led industry groups higher after I.B.M. results beat analysts' estimates. I.B.M.'s stock rose 5.7 percent.
The tech gains could continue on Wednesday. Apple reported another surge in earnings after the stock market closed as sales of iPhones and iPads again set records. The stock rose more than 5 percent to $397.35 in after-hours trading.
Coca-Cola's income increased 18 percent in the second quarter on stronger sales overseas. It raised some prices to offset higher ingredient costs. Coca-Cola's stock was up 3.3 percent.
KeyCorp, the banking company based in Cleveland, rose 4.3 percent after reporting income of 25 cents a share, up from 3 cents a share a year ago.
Harley-Davidson rose 8.9 percent, making it the top performing stock in the S.& P. 500-stock index. Harley reported its first increase in United States sales since the last quarter of 2006. An increase in housing construction lifted the stocks of Lennar Homes and D.R. Horton. The Commerce Department said building of houses and apartments increased 14.6 percent in June from May.
Bank stocks were mixed. Wells Fargo & Company's profit soared 29 percent to 70 cents a share on stronger results from lending. The bank's stock gained 5.7 percent.
Bank of America lost 90 cents a share, more than analysts had expected. Goldman's earnings more than doubled to $1.85 a share, up from 78 cents a year ago. But a decline in bond trading kept results from reaching the analysts' estimates of $2.27 a share.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 11/32, to 102 3/32, and the yield fell to 2.88 percent from 2.92 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); DEBT CEILING (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); SMARTPHONES (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); CONSTRUCTION (62%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (69%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); KEYCORP (52%); D R HORTON INC (50%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); KO (NYSE) (58%); KEY (NYSE) (52%); DHI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



722 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: A Fair Wage for Home Care Workers

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN


HIGHLIGHT: Should the employees of home care agencies be paid the minimum wage and overtime?

 BODY:
Should a home care agency employee who comes to your parent's residence, changes the sheets and does the laundry, helps him bathe and dress and makes his lunch before moving on to her next client -- should that employee receive minimum wage and, if she works longer than 40 hours in a week, overtime pay?
If that aide performed the same tasks in an assisted living facility or a nursing home, she would be covered under the federal Fair Labor Standards Act, like the vast majority of American workers, and would receive the minimum wage.
But in 1974, when Congress added domestic employees to the act, it exempted those providing "companionship services." "The idea was to carve out the teenager down the street," said Catherine Ruckelshaus, legal co-director at the National Employment Law Project. "Companions were more like elder-sitters." 
No longer the neighbor who occasionally spends an afternoon with the old woman next door, home care workers have been battling for years to get rid of that exemption. "To exclude this huge set of 1.8 million home care workers, who are trained professionals, often paid by Medicaid -- it's an enormous unintended consequence," Ms. Ruckelshaus said. 
When lawmakers introduced the exemption, she added, "they weren't thinking of this industry. It barely existed then."
But now that industry does exist. Home Instead, for example, employs more than 65,000 caregivers in all 50 states. And the industry wants to keep the exemption right where it is. Compel such agencies to pay workers more, executives warn, and they'll have to raise prices for consumers. "There's only so much a senior and a family can afford to pay," Paul Hogan, chairman of Home Instead, told me in an interview.
If you think this discussion sounds vaguely familiar, you're right. In its waning days, the Clinton administration proposed revising the Fair Labor Standards Act to include home care workers. The arriving Bush administration reversed course. In 2007, a lawsuit by retired and ailing Evelyn Coke -- who'd never gotten overtime in her many years as a home care aide on Long Island -- reached the Supreme Court. The justices unanimously ruled against her.
Now, here we are again. The Labor Department has announced that it intends to re-examine the companionship exemption. If the department decides to change the regulations, a comment period will follow during which all interested parties can weigh in, pro or con. It's a slow process, with no final decision likely for many months, perhaps even a year or longer.
At the same time, the Direct Care Alliance, which represents the women (primarily) who provide hands-on care in facilities and in private homes, is pushing a legislative solution. Bills introduced in both the Senate and the House would extend the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act to home care workers and provide state grants to improve their training. "Given the hard-fought battles in the past, we thought we needed a law," said Leonila Vega, director of the alliance.
Unsurprisingly, the industry paints a bleak picture of what might happen if the bill passes and agencies raise the rates for home care. "Clients will have no choice but to choose nursing homes," Leann Reynolds, president of Homewatch CareGivers, which has franchises in 36 states, said in an e-mail statement. 
Or perhaps, as Mr. Hogan predicted, clients will turn to independent caregivers who don't work for agencies, the so-called gray market. This may not always be a perilous choice when consumers have a way to check employees' backgrounds and experience, but it does give families all the responsibilities of employers. Not everyone wants to shoulder them.
As it happens, 21 states already mandate the minimum wage for home care workers, and another 15 require overtime payment (the bigger issue for employers). The sky doesn't appear to have fallen.
Nevertheless, Home Instead, the nation's largest provider of non-medical home care, is seeking a Congressional sponsor for another bill that would not only leave the companionship exemption intact but would prevent any future administration from changing the rules. "We're asking that the decision-making be removed from the Department of Labor," Mr. Hogan said.
"Two economic forces keep butting heads," he added.
Families already struggle with the high cost of agency home care, which averages $19 an hour nationally for a homemaker and $21 for a more skilled home health aide, according to the latest MetLife Market Survey.
But home care workers struggle, too. Theirs is among the fastest-growing and lowest-paid jobs in America. They have high injury rates, often from lifting and repositioning their clients, yet often lack health insurance. Small wonder turnover is high. 
"These need to be middle-class jobs," Ms. Vega said. "We save a lot of money by keeping people out of nursing homes and hospitals."
The Labor Department has set two "listening sessions" next week, and it would be a pity if lobbyists were the only folks the regulators got to hear from. You can call in, too, and say what you think about paying these home care workers minimum wage and overtime. 
The first session is Monday, July 25, from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Eastern time; the second is from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Eastern on Wednesday, July 27. At those times, call 888-730-9140 and use this passcode: 34478.

        
A Better Way to Find Home Care Aides
        
A New Credential for Home Care Aides
        
The Miracle Workers
        
On Home Aides and Hidden Grief
        
Care Coordination: Too Expensive for Medicare?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (91%); OVERTIME (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (89%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); AGING (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ELDER LAW (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (71%); LITIGATION (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) home health aides; Elder Care; Home Health Care; Medicine and Health; Wages and Salaries; Finances & Legalities

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



723 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: PNC Profit Exceeds Expectations, Again

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: PNC Financial Services reported profit rose 12 percent from the previous year, to $912 million, benefiting from strong gains in retail banking and asset management as well as improving credit conditions.

 BODY:
PNC Financial Services reported profit rose 12 percent from the previous year, to $912 million, benefiting from strong gains in retail banking and asset management as well as improving credit conditions. 
 The bank has been on a roll, exceeding expectations for the sixth straight quarter, according to data from Thomson Reuters. PNC's earnings-per-share of $1.67 this quarter easily best analysts estimates of $1.47.
As with other peers, PNC's results got a boost from a more favorable credit environment, with the company setting aside less money to cover bad loans. The provision for credit losses was $280 million, down from $823 million in the same quarter last year.
"Our earnings in a soft economy benefited from improving credit quality," James E. Rohr, the chief executive of the Pittsburgh-based company said in a statement.
But the bank is struggling to grow its core operations. Revenue fell to $3.6 billion, from $3.9 billion. 
Acquisitions should help the bank. In June, PNC agreed to buy Royal Bank of Canada's American retail business for $3.45 billion. The deal will help the company to expand into the southeast and give PNC the fifth-largest number of bank branches in the United States.
PNC's stock closed at $55. 83 on Tuesday, down from 52-week high of $65.19.

        
Toronto-Dominion's Chief Continues a Run at the Border
        
Despite a Spurt of Banking Deals, Pace Ahead Looks Slow 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%) PNC Financial Services; Royal Bank of Canada; Company Reports; PNC Financial Services Group Inc; Pittsburgh (Pa); Royal Bank of Canada|RY|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (69%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (59%)

ORGANIZATION: PNC Financial Services Group Inc; Royal Bank of Canada

TICKER: RY (TSX) (69%); RY (SWX) (69%); RY (NYSE) (69%); PNC (NYSE) (59%) Royal Bank of Canada; RY; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (59%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROHR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Pittsburgh (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



724 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Yowie: Will This Start-Up Survive?

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER


HIGHLIGHT: Yowie is a video chat service that links performing acts with their fans.

 BODY:
This is the first in a series of quick profiles of start-up companies. The Small Business Administration has found that about half of new businesses survive five years. Will this be one of the survivors?
Business: Yowie, established in July 2010, is a Web service that connects performers and fans through live video chat. (A "yowie" is Australia's version of a yeti, a k a Bigfoot.)
Employees: Nine full time.
Location: Santa Monica, Calif.
Founders: Jay Snider, 53, is the former president of the Philadelphia Flyers hockey team and the founder of SpectaGuard, a security company he created at age 22 and sold in 1998. To start Yowie, he teamed up with his son, Jamie Snider, 26, and two MySpace alumni, Frank Orozco and Carlos Montes.
Pitch: There are already lots of services for streaming entertainment in real time. Yowie wants to do them one better, letting audiences interact with their favorite artists in a setting that allows fans to watch live performances and queue up to chat with entertainers via Web cams.
"The idea of providing a platform for talent, a microphone, is in the blood," said Jay Snider, whose father founded the Philadelphia Flyers and who grew up working summer jobs at the arena where the Flyers and many performing acts played. "It's in my genes."
Traction: So far, Yowie has collaborated with heavy hitters like Disney, DreamWorks and Comedy Central to present a roster of guests including the comedians Amy Poehler and Reggie Watts, the rock band the Melvins and Dianna Agron of "Glee." On April 13, Ashley Tisdale of "High School Musical" drew about 10,000 visitors - about 2,000 logged in at any one time - over the course of a 15-minute show, making it Yowie's largest event to date.
Revenue: Yowie has yet to develop a revenue stream but plans to charge its larger clients, most of whom embed Yowie's live video sessions on their own Web sites. "We expect that line to be crossed later this month," Mr. Snider said, adding that he is actively engaged in contract discussions with a major network that he declined to name.
Other strategies include creating genre-based entertainment channels on Yowie's home page that are open to sponsorship, and charging affiliate fees to let entertainers sell merchandise, from MP3 downloads to T-shirts and concert tickets, through the site.
Financing: So far, $2.1 million has been invested, most of it from Mr. Snider himself, along with an early-stage investment from Jon Powell, the president of Kravco, a real estate development company in King of Prussia, Pa. Mr. Snider hopes to raise more cash from either venture capitalists or strategic investors who will bring both dollars and content.
Marketing: Yowie advertises on Facebook. The company's two associate producers blog about coming shows. And whenever large clients, such as Disney, embed Yowie's services on their own, well-trafficked Web sites, it helps get the word out. Four weeks ago, Yowie hired a digital marketing expert. So far, he's "looking at competition and positioning, developing a strategy," Mr. Snider said. "We want to spread the word with an organized viral approach, and he's the first person we've had on board to focus on that."
Competition: Two other video chat services are vying for the limelight. Tinychat, based in Glen Cove, N.Y., has financing from Ashton Kutcher and the rapper Sean Combs, both of whom have used the site to hobnob with fans. And Vokle, which happens to be based a few miles away from Yowie in Santa Monica, has hosted events with Al Gore and Weird Al Yankovic.
Challenge: "I think the biggest challenge is getting viral user growth," Mr. Snider said. "Users, for us, are the people who start the event and are the content providers."
Now's your chance to weigh in. How can Mr. Snider ensure that repeat users aren't as elusive as a yeti?

        
A Safer Way to Start a Business
        
A Start-Up's Financial Reckoning 
        
You Should Open a Store!
        
An Incubator That Turns Laid Off Workers Into Entrepreneurs
        
Can College Graduates Create Their Own Jobs?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); STARTUPS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%) Jay Snider; start-up; Tinychat; Vokle; Yowie; Snider, Jay; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Small Business; Start-ups; Santa Monica (Calif); Start

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: Snider, Jay

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (72%) Santa Monica (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



725 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1832 words

HEADLINE: Who, and Where, Are America's Composers?

BYLINE: ROB DEEMER


HIGHLIGHT: The real lives of most composers don't reflect the decades-old stereotypes about their music, craft or who they are.

 BODY:
I never wanted to be a composer.
Even well into college, the thought had not even crossed my mind. I wanted to be a band director. Or a music teacher. Because when you're in high school in northern Illinois, as I was in the 1980s, with 45 miles of cornfields in every direction, and the music bug bit you, that's what you did.
I played saxophone, flute, and clarinet, but I didn't practice very well. I'd always get bored and make stuff up, or pull out manuscript paper and arrange something. The idea of writing something new never occurred to me, but taking a tune that someone else had written and coming up with a new way to look at it (or hear it, in this case), seemed easy.
More than halfway through a music education degree at a respectable Midwestern university on the fast track to a comfortable career as a band director, nothing much had changed. The only living composers I knew of were a few professors at Northern Illinois University and a couple of their students.I never considered studying composition seriously. I had always assumed that if you were going to be a composer, you knew it, like Mozart, at a very early age, and would have already written reams of music by the time you got to college. None of my friends composed classical music. I remember reading somewhere that "composition could not be taught." I was content with the prospect of shaping young minds for a living and writing big band arrangements as a hobby.
One day a professor caught me in the hallway and congratulated me. One of my arrangements, he told me, had been entered into a national contest for DownBeat Magazine and won - in the . The screwy arrangement I had written of Thelonius Monk's "Blue Monk" had been so far removed from the original tune that it had been considered an original composition. My first composition and I didn't even know I had written it.
Now what?
The next 15 years brought a series of adventures later: a year in the Caribbean on a cruise ship; a stint in Los Angeles attempting to break into film music; my first real composition lessons in graduate school at the age of 28; conducting hordes of children and enthusiastic amateurs in a community theatre in Dixon, Ill.; and the completion of my doctorate at the University of Texas at Austin. I ended up teaching for what became two years in Norman, Okla., and Oklahoma City, and it was there, just miles from the actual place called "No Man's Land," that I got the first got a sense of, not only being a composer, but being part of a group, a community of fellow composers in the United States.
It was there that I began producing a radio show called "The Composer Next Door" on the local NPR station that featured living American composers with a focus on regions not strongly associated with classical music. As I researched to see who was composing in places like South Dakota and Mississippi, I discovered online magazines like Sequenza21 and NewMusicBox that discussed contemporary concert music and introduced me to both well-known artists and others, either newly emerging or with limited influence. About the same time, a friend introduced me to this new Web site called Facebook. As more and more composers sent me CD's for the show I got to know them through e-mail, online discussions and social networking.
After hosting the show for a year, I came to the realization that the overall community of composers, as varied as it was, did not have a great sense of itself.
Through my more recent work on a book of interviews with composers (modeled after Ann McCutchan's "The Muse That Sings"), I've gotten to know even more composers. Over the past year I have interviewed 37 composers in 10 cities, and have been exploring some of what I've learned in a weekly column at NewMusicBox. But I've also come away with some observations about these talented creators and their places in our society.
I had always envisioned the reality of composers to be rather cushy: hiding in their studios out on the East Coast and in a few select pockets around the country (see: Ann Arbor, North Shore of Chicago, San Francisco) and dividing their time between their projects and their comfortable lifestyles - this wasn't an intentional assumption, but one that I had picked up through the media's portrayal of successful artists, books about long-dead masters, and the natural knee-jerk thoughts we all have about those successful in a field, whatever that field might be.
I also had lived for many years with the belief that concert composers were only interested in esoteric conceptual art that disregarded both the performer and the audience. For a long time I was only into jazz and had no clue or curiosity about contemporary "classical" music, so I can very much remember how those beliefs affected my attitudes towards the music and the people who wrote it (what little I was exposed to) over 20 years ago.
The reality, I learned, was much different. What I can tell you now, after having met these composers and hearing them passionately explain where they came from, how they do what they do, and how they survive in today's economy is that my presumptions were way off the mark. Some are married, some have kids, some are single. Some are gay, some are straight. Some live in the country, some in the suburbs, some in one-room apartments on the upper West Side.
The Brooklyn-based composer and singer Corey Dargel writes all of his works with the intention that he be the only singer to perform them with groups such as ETHEL, NOW Ensemble, Dither Quartet, and International Contemporary Ensemble, while Amy Williams, a composer and pianist based in Pittsburgh, writes all of her works with the intention that they be performed by other pianists while she performs other composers' works with her ensemble, the Bugallo-Williams Piano Duo. The Puerto Rican-born composer and conductor Armando Bayolo juggles his busy composing schedule with family obligations, an adjunct teaching position at Peabody Conservatory and his duties as leader of the Washington D.C.-based Great Noise Ensemble. Abbie Betinis has carved out a strong career in Minneapolis by taking advantage of the thriving choral community in Minnesota while surviving three bouts of cancer by the time she was 30.
The composers I've come to know have played in rock bands or sang in church choirs or took piano lessons when they were kids. Some discovered composing when they were in elementary school without knowing how hard it was supposed to be; others didn't realize it was their calling until they were well into their twenties. Some quit, then got back into it because they couldn't do it. Many are entrepreneurs, most are self-published. All of them have spent years filled with intense study, work, risk, self-doubt, sacrifice, and a huge amount of luck in order to get to where they are. They are not freaks, they are not "elites," and they have not resigned themselves to pick up scraps off of the American Cultural Dinner Table. They are normal people who through their talent, curiosity, and stubbornness are able to create experiences through which the rest of us can become just a little more human.
One has to remember that composers are working in a field that emphasizes a limited and established repertory of historical works and in many areas lacks even the limited balance between old and new that the other arts are much better at promoting. They are also fighting a decades-old stereotype that assumes that all "new music" will be aurally dissonant, conceptually confounding, and, most of all, frustrating to experience. These hurdles have accumulated over time to the point where an entire generation of composers is almost unknown to many professional musicians and audiences throughout the country.
Print, broadcast, and online media outlets rarely allow composers to even land on their radar unless they're attached to a greater "topic of interest." (Eric Whitacre's "Virtual Choir" - a work more than 10 years old was covered by CNN because of its creative use of YouTube videos.) Grammy categories awarded to concert composers: 1, out of 109. Pulitzer Prize categories awarded to concert composers: 1, out of 21. Even the Kennedy Center Honors, one of the few avenues through which this country might take notice of such creative endeavors, have only recognized eight concert composers since 1978 and only two in the past 15 years (John Williams and Andre Previn). 
I believe that this lack of exposure, this lack of place in the national conversation is a primary reason why many in the music community continue to base their performances on that limited and established repertory that I mentioned before. Musicians can talk about new music all they want, but until the lay audiences are brought into the discussion, as Bernstein attempted to do back in the 1960s and Time Magazine would occasionally do with their articles on living composers into the 1980s, then this art form may be resigned to the ever-shrinking slice of our national cultural landscape.
And yet, I believe that music composition as an art form and a community is growing by what I have observed with pre-college students throughout the country. I have been a member of the New York State School of Music Association's Composition Committee for several years, a group that holds a young composers concert at each year's All-State festival, and provides feedback to each composer who submits a work. Founded by Dr. Dan Deutsch and the first of its kind in the country, the committee has seen a rise in student submissions every year since its inception in 1999 to the point where we now sift through over 140 compositions written by students from ages 10 to 17. I am in the middle of my first summer as composition faculty at the Interlochen Summer Arts Camp in northern Michigan, and have been overwhelmed with the skills and enthusiasm of the 19 composition majors studying here - as well as the openness of the camp to infuse new music and composition into the rest of their curriculum. Finally, just recently the Music Educator's National Conference created a Composition Council at the national level to encourage composing as an important musical skill at all educational levels. Over time, the greater number of our population who are allowed to compose themselves or to simply get to meet and interact with composers at a young age, the greater chance that that aforementioned slice of the cultural landscape might begin to reverse course and grow.
Composing a string quartet, a musical, a symphony, or an opera at the level of a master composer is something that only a handful of people will be able to do - such is the way with all endeavors. But the more we all know about what composing music is, and who the living composers are around us, the more rich and exceptional we might all become.

        
After Tahrir, New Voices in a Global Fugue
        
A Pitch for New Music
        
The Composer's Other Voice
        
In Berlin, Moved by Music, Place and Memory
        
Prague 1970: Music in Spring

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CRUISES (60%); THEATER (58%) Classical Music; composers; contemporary music; Radio; Jazz; Music; United States; The Score

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (66%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



726 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Rising Family Income: More Work, Not Raises

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Traditional families today earn more than they did three decades ago -- but primarily because they're working more, a recent paper from the Hamilton Project finds.

 BODY:
Traditional families today earn more than they did three decades ago -- but primarily because they're working more hours, a recent paper from the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution finds.
Median wages for two-parent families have grown 23 percent since 1975, after adjusting for inflation. The collective number of hours worked by both parents over the course of a year, however, has risen 26 percent. That means their wages haven't even grown as much as their working hours would imply they should.
The additional hours worked by the median two-parent family -- 3,500 hours in 2009, compared to 2,800 hours in 1975 -- mostly reflect the fact that more women have joined the work force since the 1970s. Men's annual working hours have stayed relatively constant; women's, on the other hand, have more than doubled.
These figures may actually overstate the economic improvements in Americans' lives over the last three decades, too, since they refer to a family structure that is much less common today. The share of men between age 30 to 50 who are married with children was 70 percent in 1975, and only 47 percent today.
Today, there are many more single-parent families, meaning that just looking at two-parent families over time doesn't give a full picture of what has happened to family incomes.
The median earnings of single-parent families have risen over time, to $16,500. But this number is still less than one-fourth the earnings of a traditional two-parent family. Not only do these households earn less money, but they most likely have more expenses as well, since they require more spending on child care while the single parent works.
That is one argument supporting Nancy Folbre's proposal that policy makers should look at the market value of what is traditionally known as "women's work."

        
Richer People Want Fewer Children
        
Preferring Boys to Girls
        
The Economics of Men Behaving Badly
        
Measuring Jobless Families 
        
Unemployment's Rising Toll on Families

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (92%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PARENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (79%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); TRENDS (67%) family economics; Hamilton Project; Income; women in the workforce; Economic Conditions and Trends; Families and Family Life; Working Hours

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



727 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: C.E.O. of the U.S.A., Part 2

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: On whether business experience translates to knowing how to guide a country's economic policy, especially when it comes to jobs.

 BODY:
A couple of months ago I observed that many of the Republican presidential contenders were emphasizing their business experience as an asset for turning the economy around. In many ways, though, being chief executive of a company is very different from being chief executive of the United States.
Especially when it comes to jobs.
Corporate executives want to minimize labor costs, just as they want to minimize the costs of all their production inputs. They also do not hire people because they want to put more people to work; they hire people only if doing so helps the company make more money. That's what capitalism is about. This is not quite the case with presidents, who want to maximize employment and raise wages (albeit hopefully in an efficient, sustainable arrangement).
This disconnect between corporate and macroeconomic policy goals came up when President Obama asked Jeffrey Immelt, the chief executive of General Electric, to head his jobs council. And Bloomberg had a smart piece today about how Mr. Romney, a Republican presidential candidate, must now grapple with these same issues.
Mr. Romney is currently promoting his business experience at Bain Capital as a credential for managing the economy and accelerating job growth, but he must square that message with his record as a private equity executive. In that role, part of his job was to buy companies and trim their payrolls:
At Dade Behring Inc., a medical-testing company based in Deerfield, Illinois, Bain cut at least 1,600 jobs during a series of acquisitions before the firm entered into bankruptcy in 2002. Romney foreshadowed those cuts in a speech to employees shortly after Bain acquired the firm.
DDi Corp., an electronics company in Anaheim, California, filed for bankruptcy in 2003 after Bain sold shares in the company generating at least $85.5 million and billed $10 million in management fees.
GS Industries Inc., a steel company in Charlotte, North Carolina, filed for bankruptcy in 2001 after workers said a chief executive hired under Bain made missteps, including installing managers who lacked industry expertise, former employees said.
Employees who lost jobs at Bain-controlled companies more than a decade ago say they still hold Romney responsible.
"I would not vote for him for anything," said Phyllis Detro, 68, who lost her job at a Bain-owned office paper products factory in Marion, Indiana, closed in 1995. "I'd like to see the jobs that he's created. He has taken away jobs."
Of course, making an economy run more efficiently - just like making a company run more efficiently - is a good thing in the long run.
But when jobs are shed to make an entire economy more efficient, those laid-off workers must be reallocated elsewhere to keep the economy strong. Companies generally don't have to worry about finding new jobs or lifelines for the workers they've cast off.

        
Media Culpa? Coverage of Jobs vs. Deficit
        
C.E.O. of the U.S.A.
        
Consumer Spending: The Chicken or the Egg
        
Are We About to Repeat the Mistakes of 1937?
        
Unemployment? Who Cares? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); ACQUISITIONS (65%); PAPER MFG (50%) big business; employment; jobs; Mitt Romney; politics; Romney, Mitt; Executives and Management; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012

COMPANY: KDDI CORP (66%); VIASYSTEMS GROUP INC (66%); SIEMENS HEALTHCARE DIAGNOSTICS (66%); GS INDUSTRIES INC (64%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

TICKER: 9433 (TSE) (66%); VIAS (NASDAQ) (66%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (66%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (66%); NAICS334412 BARE PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3672 PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2835 IN VITRO & IN VIVO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (64%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (64%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JEFFREY IMMELT (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



728 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Electricity Demand Soars in Mid-Atlantic States

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Grid operators in the mid-Atlantic region, New York State and New England predict that they can cope with the heat wave.

 BODY:
As millions of air conditioners sucked power, electricity consumption in the mid-Atlantic region soared on Wednesday beyond the level that planners had estimated would be the peak for this year. But grid operators in that region, and in New England and New York, said they were confident they could meet demand during the current heat wave.
The record for power demand in all three areas was set in August 2006. An enduring recession that has closed industries, shops and homes, as well as some improvements in the efficiency of electric equipment, has kept demand in check since then. 
Last summer, when there was a sustained hot period in July, with sweltering nights as well as hot days, some areas set records for consumption over all, but not for peak demand, the point at which demand is highest.
The mid-Atlantic area is served by PJM Interconnection, based in Valley Forge, Pa., which in May predicted a peak demand of 148,940 megawatts for this year. By late afternoon on Wednesday, it had hit 150,560 megawatts. (A megawatt is enough electricity to power 1,000 window air-conditioners when they are running at full tilt. A big nuclear reactor produces about 1,200 megawatts.) 
PJM, which used to stand for Pennsylvania-Jersey-Maryland, coordinates transmission of electricity in all of New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, the District of Columbia and West Virginia, most of Ohio and parts of Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, North Carolina and Tennessee. It has 180,400 megawatts of generation capacity, although on any given day, some of that is likely to be out of service. 
The company was expecting load growth of 1.1 percent this summer, low by historical standards, largely as a result of the recession. Instead, judging from preliminary numbers, the rise could be closer to 2 percent. 
Paula DuPont-Kidd, a spokeswoman for PJM, noted that even warmer weather was forecast for Thursday and Friday. 
"What you get concerned about is that when you have consecutive days of 90-plus-degree heat, your equipment doesn't get a chance to cool down at night," she said. "As sustained heat wears on, you can find some vulnerabilities." But there have been none so far, she said on Wednesday afternoon. 
The parallel entity in New York, the New York Independent System Operator, is not expecting a new peak this summer and did not reach it on Wednesday. The expectation is that this summer's peak will be 4 percent below the peak set on Aug. 2, 2006. 
The grid operator for the six-state New England region, ISO New England, predicts that peak demand this year will reach 27,550 megawatts, slightly higher than the 27,102-megawatt peak last year. Its all-time peak, set the same day as New York's, was 28,130 megawatts. It did not approach the peak on Wednesday.

        
U.S. Reactors Unprepared for Total Power Loss, Report Suggests
        
Defying Planners, China's Utilities Cut Electricity Production 
        
ARPA-E Is Poised to Put Products on the Grid 
        
Now, Starter Homes Boast Solar Arrays
        
For Excess Solar Flow, a Veg-O-Matic for Voltage

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (92%); ENERGY DEMAND (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); WEATHER (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%) electricity; grid; ISO New England; New England; new york; New York Independent System Operator; peak demand; PJM; Air Conditioning; Electric Light and Power; Weather; Delaware; Maryland; New England States (US); New York State; North Carolina; West Virginia; Business; Conventional Energy; Efficiency; Living

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Delaware; Maryland; New England States (US); New York State; North Carolina; West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



729 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Borough Chief Says Council Earmarks Should Stop

BYLINE: JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ


HIGHLIGHT: Scott M. Stringer called for the abolition of the $49 million pot of money the City Council distributes each year to nonprofit groups, saying the process had become too political.

 BODY:
The Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, called on Wednesday for the abolition of the $49 million pot of money the City Council distributes each year to nonprofit groups, saying the process for giving out the grants had become overly political.
Mr. Stringer, whose office conducted a yearlong study of the funds, said the current system had led to vast economic disparities. He pointed to one Upper East Side district that received twice as much in grants as a far less affluent district in Washington Heights.
"At a time of dwindling government resources, New York City must be more committed than ever to allocating tax dollars in a way that is transparent, equitable and free of political favoritism," Mr. Stringer said in a 24-page report (pdf). 
Every year, each of the 51 council members gives out grants ranging from $80,000 to more than $1 million. The Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, has her own fund totaling about $18 million.
In his report, Mr. Stringer said that city agencies, not the Council, should decide how to distribute the funds. He said that each district should get a lump sum or that the money should be distributed on the basis of economic need.
Almost immediately after releasing his report, Mr. Stringer, a likely mayoral contender in 2013, faced questions about whether he was taking aim at Ms. Quinn, a potential rival for the mayoralty. He brushed aside those suggestions.
"This is not about any one person," he said. "This is about a system that has been broken for decades and needs to be fixed."
Ms. Quinn has said that the grants are a lifeline to many small community groups, and that council members are often best positioned to know the needs of their districts.
The pot of money has come under scrutiny after a series of fraud and abuse scandals involving several council members.
An analysis in The New York Times earlier this year showed that some of the city's poorest districts received the smallest amount in earmarks. In addition, politically connected nonprofit groups often receive a large share of the Council's money.
Maria Alvarado, a council spokeswoman, said that Ms. Quinn was proud of her efforts to increase transparency in the budget. "We look forward to reviewing his report," Ms. Alvarado said in a statement.

        
City Council Approves $36.4 Million for Earmarks
        
Eying 2013 Mayoral Race, Stringer Raises $655,000
        
Bloomberg Administration Is Criticized on Wages
        
Quinn Criticizes Bloomberg Plan to Cut Spending
        
Mayor Wasn't Told About Storm Response, Goldsmith Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (98%); CITIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); APPROVALS (67%); SCANDALS (67%) Christine C. Quinn; City Council; earmarks; Scott M. Stringer; Quinn, Christine C; Stringer, Scott M; Earmarks (Finance); City Council (NYC); Government & Politics; Highlights

ORGANIZATION: City Council (NYC)

PERSON: Quinn, Christine C; Stringer, Scott M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



730 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: BlackRock Profit Rises 25%, to $578 Million

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: While other financial firms got weighed down by mortgage liabilities, trading misses and other problems, BlackRock continued to chug along, producing double-digit gains in both revenue and profit.

 BODY:
BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, said on Wednesday that its second-quarter profit rose 25 percent, to $578 million, spurred by strong showings in most of its divisions.
While other financial firms get felled by mortgage liabilities, trading misses and other problems, BlackRock continued to chug along, producing double-digit gains in both revenue and profit, in part because it has benefited from the rise in the stock market over the last year. 
In discussing BlackRock's performance, Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive, said it came amid tough conditions in which "investors grew increasingly concerned about uncertainties in the market, including the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, political stalemate on the U.S. debt ceiling, and prospects of slower economic growth."
The firm also easily surpassed expectations with earnings of $3 a share. Analysts had been predicting $2.88 a share.
Assets under management, an important measure of the firm's health, rose 16 percent, to nearly $3.7 trillion, buoyed in part by the stock markets. Revenue also increased 16 percent, to $2.35 billion. 
Revenue from investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending came in at $2.1 billion, up 17 percent from the $1.8 billion posted in the second quarter of 2010. The firm said the increase was a result of growth in long-term assets under management, which reflected the benefit of both new business and market appreciation of assets over the last year. 
BlackRock Solutions was pretty much flat in quarter, reporting revenue of $116 million, up $2 million from the period a year earlier. The group, which flourished during the financial crisis, provides risk management advice to institutions and governments. It gained 10 new assignments in the second quarter, and its clients have included the Irish central bank and the Federal Reserve. 
"The level of geopolitical, regulatory and economic uncertainty is exceptionally high and contributing to considerable volatility in the markets," Mr. Fink said. "Our teams are working tirelessly to communicate with our clients and help navigate these difficult conditions."

        
Questions on Bank of America Mortgage Deal
        
The Lawyer Behind the Bank of America Settlement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (69%); DEBT CEILING (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); POLITICS (54%) BlackRock; Laurence Fink; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: BLACKROCK INC (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%)

TICKER: BLK (NYSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (94%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: LAURENCE D FINK (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



731 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Is Dividing a Company the Way to Beat the Affordable Care Act?

BYLINE: ROBB MANDELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: There's a lot of interest, but it probably won't work, according to several tax and benefit lawyers. 

 BODY:
That's one notion that seems to be circulating among small-business owners and their advisers lately. Consultants at McKinsey & Company floated the suggestion as part of their controversial report on employer views of health insurance. And in The Times's coverage of that report, Milt Freudenheim interviewed a small-business owner who said he was hoping to "game the system." The owner, Gerry Harkins, who is also chairman of the National Federation of Independent Business's Georgia State Leadership Council, said he might split his Atlanta-based construction company into two smaller companies to evade the overhaul's employer mandate, specifically the penalties on companies that fail to offer affordable health insurance to employees.
Unfortunately for Mr. Harkins (who did not return a call from The Agenda seeking an elaboration of his comments), the authors of the Affordable Care Act are one step ahead of him, according to several tax and benefit lawyers contacted by The Agenda. The authors included a provision that basically adopts parts of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that say any group of companies under common control are to be treated as a single company. Common control is defined as the same five or fewer people owning at least 80 percent of the companies, according to Al Martin, a tax lawyer at the Kansas City law firm Lathrop & Gage. Spouses and children are generally considered one owner, according to Mr. Martin.
No doubt this will make it difficult for people like Mr. Harkins to game the system. "You're going to wind up changing economic relationships if you avoid the rules," he said. "You've got to change ownership structure."
"The idea that that would be an easy thing to do would be hard for me to believe," added Jon Staudt, a tax lawyer with Belin McCormick in Des Moines. "People have been trying to avoid the E.R.I.S.A. law so that they could have separate pension plans, for example, pretty unsuccessfully for 36 years."
The McKinsey consultants, for their part, had other reasons for proposing a split. The thrust of their advice is to find ways to wean lower-wage employees off employer-sponsored coverage while keeping higher-wage employees, who won't be eligible for subsidies, insured.
Until the Affordable Care Act, federal law was a bit schizophrenic when it came to group health insurance plans for 50 or more people. A company that funded its own health insurance plan - a strategy that often makes financial sense for companies with several hundred participants - was subject to an antidiscrimination law that banned those plans from offering looser eligibility requirements or better benefits to top executives.
"The basic rule is you can do anything you want, but if the plan is self-funded, and if the effect of it is that the highly paid get the Cadillac deal and everybody else gets the Ford, that's not going to work," said Charles Wolfe, a lawyer at the Chicago law firm Vedder Price, and a co-chairman of an employee benefits committee of the American Bar Association. "The executives are going to get taxed."
There was a loophole, however: because group plans insured by a third party (like an insurance company) are regulated by the states, they weren't subject to federal discrimination laws. The solution for big companies, said Mr. Wolfe, was to self fund health insurance for the rank and file and buy a separate insured plan for the executives.
Now the Affordable Care Act is poised to close that loophole by applying the same antidiscrimination rules for self-funded plans to insured plans. (Because the regulations have not been written, the Internal Revenue Service is not yet enforcing this provision of the new law.) One option McKinsey proposes is to split the company into two separate entities, one with company managers and others who would get employer-sponsored insurance and the other for employees who would get no insurance. The company without insurance would have to pay the mandate penalty on those employees, and perhaps even additional compensation, but that could still be cheaper than buying their coverage.
Ah, but beware of free advice, which, as they say, is often worth what you pay for it. Here again, Congress linked the antidiscrimination law for self-funded plans to E.R.I.S.A.'s common-control provision. And the section of the Affordable Care Act that extends the discrimination ban to insured plans explicitly ties the new ban to those same common-control rules. McKinsey's suggestion "strikes me as a bit odd, in the sense that I don't think it will be possible for a company to keep its corporate or senior management in one company and the rest of its work force in another company and still provide tax-advantaged benefits to the senior management," said Philip Mowrey, one of Mr. Wolfe's partners at Vedder Price.
A McKinsey spokeswoman said the firm had no comment.
The penalty assessed under the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Mowrey also noted, was stiff: $100 a day multiplied by every employee discriminated against.
At least in theory, that is. According to Mr. Mowrey, the discrimination regulations for self-funded plans have never really been enforced, because they don't address very well the new types of health care plans that have been developed since the regulations were adopted in 1981. "It was sort of a moribund law," he said. With the expansion created by the Affordable Care Act, he says, it's clear that the I.R.S. is committed to implementing the bans for both kinds of insurance plans.
That means the only way a business owner will be able to beat the health care law by splitting a company into two will be by selling one, or most of one, of the resulting pieces.

        
Doing the Math on Employer Health Insurance
        
Debating Whether Businesses Will Continue to Offer Health Insurance
        
How the Health Care Law Affects Your Business
        
Looking to the Affordable Care Act For Help
        
Is the Health Care Plan a Good Thing?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); NEW ISSUES (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX LAW (88%); LAWYERS (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%) E.R.I.S.A.; employer mandate; health care reform; health insurance; health-care; McKinsey & Company; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Small Business; McKinsey & Co; National Federation of Independent Business; The Agenda

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%); LATHROP & GAGE LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (91%) McKinsey & Co; National Federation of Independent Business

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%) GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



732 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Gather (Virtually) for Twitter Debate

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: A handful of Republican presidential candidates will participate Wednesday in the first debate of the 2012 race to take place on Twitter.

 BODY:
A handful of Republican presidential candidates will participate Wednesday in the first 140-character debate of the 2012 race to take place on Twitter.
The debate, sponsored by theteaparty.net beginning at 3 p.m. Eastern, will include questions from Twitter users who mention @140TownHall in their Twitter post. The conversation can be followed on Twitter using that handle, rather than a hashtag, or at 140TownHall.com, a platform that was developed for political debates and for future town-hall-style discussions.
"We are hoping to further and to be a part of this communications revolution," said Andrew Hemingway, 29, who helped organize the event as chairman of the Republican Liberty Caucus of New Hampshire, a grass-roots organization. "We want to continue to move the political dialogue to allow for greater engagement and more transparency with our political candidates. We think Twitter can do that."
The candidates participating in the debate - remotely, on their Twitter accounts - include Representative Michele Bachmann (@michelebachmann), Herman Cain (@thehermancain), Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich), Thaddeus McCotter (@ThadMcCotter), Rick Santorum (@ricksantorum) and Gary Johnson (@govgaryjohnson). Mr. Hemingway said that some candidates, including Mitt Romney, did not respond to a request inviting him to join. Others, like Tim Pawlenty, had a scheduling conflict. On Tuesday, Mr. Pawlenty took to his Twitter @TimPawlenty account to answer questions about the economy as part of the "American Jobs Conference on Twitter," which used the hashtag, #jobs4US. 
Posing questions to the candidates will be the conservative commentator S.E. Cupp and the conservative radio host Rusty Humphries. Candidates are encouraged to limit their answers to no more than three Twitter messages, Mr. Hemingway said.
In the last year, the use of Twitter has skyrocketed among both elected officials and political candidates who took to the platform during the midterm elections to both engage with voters and broadcast updates. On July 6, President Obama responded to questions from Twitter users during what was described as the first Twitter Town Hall at the White House. However, he did not keep his answers to 140 characters. They were streamed live on the Web as part of a joint project with Twitter.
Among the questions that the Republican candidates are already getting on Twitter is this one for Mr. Gingrich: "How to approach the situation in Afghanistan? What is victory, and what presense must we keep?" (Twitter users often employ creative spelling and punctuation in order to stay under 140 characters.)
Another question for the candidates: "Do you support the #NRLB complaint against #boeing?" (Hashtags, words or phrases preceded by the # symbol, are used on Twitter to organize topics and search messages.) And Mark DeHoog posted this question: "God's role is critical, w/ roots in founding & future what can we do to get on track w/ Him and thus get the country on track?"
Mr. Hemingway, founder of Digital Acumen, a consulting firm that specializes in social media and politics, said that Twitter was not officially involved in Wednesday's event. He has teamed up with Adam Green, founder and chief executive of 140dev.com, who, along with his son, Zach, developed the platform for the debate.
Mr. Green organized 140TownHall.com so that it will collect all Twitter messages by and about the candidates in the debate, and then split them into two streams. People will be able to see the posts on Twitter from the candidates in one stream and the tweets from the public in the other. Any answers from the candidates will be resent by @140TownHall.
"It is a platform that we hope to use over and over again to encourage engagement," Mr. Hemingway said.

        
Romney Sets Fall Debate Schedule
        
Pawlenty Goes After Romney 
        
Pawlenty Bets That His Debate Performance Fades
        
Fact Checking the Republican Debate 
        
Haley to G.O.P. Candidates: 'It's Go Time'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%) 2012 presidential campaign; debates; Republicans; Twitter; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); THADDEUS G MCCOTTER (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



733 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: More on the Texas Story

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Supply, demand, and Rick Perry.

 BODY:
On further reflection, I think it's possible to make the points I was trying to make in my post on Texas more clearly using - wait for it - supply and demand.
So, here's a picture of the labor market in Texas, or any region:
Wait - where does that downward-sloping demand curve come from? Haven't I argued that an overall fall in wages would do nothing to raise employment? The answer is, fallacy of composition. Any one region of the United States can increase employment by cutting wages relative to other regions; that's very different from a cut in everyone's wages. (And no, wage cuts don't make American more competitive relative to other countries; we have a floating exchange rate, so it's just offset by a rise in the dollar).
So, it's supply and demand. Now suppose you see a rise in Texas employment relative to other regions. What's causing it? Well, it could be either a rise in supply or a rise in demand (or, of course, both); the way you tell the difference is by asking what happens to wages. A rise in demand looks like this:
And a rise in supply looks like this:
So the Rick Perry story is that by creating a business-friendly environment in Texas, he's created lots of hiring in the state; so that's the claim that it's a rightward shift in the demand curve.
But in that case, where are the surging wages? Wage data by state is hard to compile, but I haven't heard anyone claiming that Texas is drawing workers in by offering great wages; on the contrary, the state has a reputation for cheap labor.
So let's suppose it's a rise in supply instead. What could be causing that? Well, as I said, there are two, not mutually exclusive stories: immigration and high birth rates among immigrants, leading to rapid population growth; and workers moving to Texas despite low wages because of cheap housing and a generally low cost of living.
Neither of these stories is necessarily a bad thing. In particular, I'm all in favor of affordable housing; affordable housing is a friend of mine. But it's not at all the Perry story.
And one more thing: yes, Texas has created more jobs over the past few years than other states; but that mainly reflects the ongoing trend produced by the stories I've just described. You only have the right to claim that Texas is somehow recession-proof if the pace of job creation had been maintained through the slump, at a rate sufficient to avoid a large rise in unemployment. And that hasn't happened; as I said, Texas unemployment is comparable to New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); COST OF LIVING (71%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (68%); IMMIGRATION (61%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



734 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Calling George Will, Science Defender

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A conservative who claimed to be a defender of unfettered scientific inquiry has been silent of late.

 BODY:
I kind of figured that George Will's January column urging Republican lawmakers to "rev the scientific engine" of America was a one-off.
He directed the column at newly minted conservative members of Congress, telling them that "[R]esearch is what canals and roads once were -- a prerequisite for long-term economic vitality."
But where's Will now that House Republicans, both directly in bills and indirectly in the way they are playing debt negotiations*, are shredding budgets for precisely the kind of frontier work he claimed to champion last winter?
He was quick in January to praise the National Academy of Sciences for pointing out "the gathering storm" created by America's waning push on science and innovation. Why hasn't he written to support the letter sent to legislative leaders by more than 140 scientific societies and universities warning that while cost cutting is unavoidable, targeting specific programs is detrimental to the nation's effort to rebuild its economic footing? Here's an excerpt: We recognize the challenge that our nation faces in addressing the deficit and revitalizing our national economy; however, defunding specific grants or eliminating entire sets of disciplines...sets a dangerous precedent that, in the end, will inhibit scientific progress and our international competitiveness. Read the rest.As I wrote in January, when a columnist really cares about something -- as was the case with Will's assault on climate science -- he really puts his shoulder to it in repeated volleys. Here's how I put to him then:I think it'd make sense to devote at least as many column inches to this vital issue as you've expended trying to undercut decades of scientific study pointing to a growing human influence on the climate system.Now's your chance, George, to go out there and save science and the source of America's renewed prosperity. Or not.
[*I can't help but note how Fox News directs the headline on its piece on science budgets, linked above, at President Obama alone.]

        
'Rev the Scientific Engine.' Great. How?
        
The Real Threat to Science in the New Political Climate
        
98 Percent 'Discouraged' in Energy Quest
        
Questions for Obama's Science Team
        
Shaping Energy Menus Through 2030

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); WRITERS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (59%) budget; Congress; energy; george will; innovation; obam; politics; r&d; Research; science; Conservatism (US Politics); Federal Budget (US); Global Warming; National Debt (US); Science and Technology; Will, George F; National Science Foundation; Economics; engineering; technology

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%) National Science Foundation

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



735 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Barney Frank, Financial Overhaul's Defender in Chief

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: A year after the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, Barney Frank has positioned himself as its chief defender.

 BODY:
A year ago, Barney Frank notched the biggest win of his three-decade Congressional career, as he ushered the financial regulatory overhaul that bears his name into law.
Today, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is under siege and behind schedule. As worries mount that new regulations could hamper the nation's economic recovery, lobbyists are trying to undo or significantly weaken the law.
Despite the setbacks, the Massachusetts Democrat is still confident Dodd-Frank will help prevent a repeat of the financial crisis.
"I think we have a very good structure in place that will diminish the likelihood of another collapse caused by financial irresponsibility," Mr. Frank said during a recent interview on Capitol Hill, looking disheveled in his customary dark suit and red-and-blue striped tie. "On the whole, I'm very pleased with how it worked out."
Last summer, Mr. Frank overcame fierce opposition from Republican lawmakers and Wall Street lobbyists and remade the financial regulatory landscape.
Named after Mr. Frank, 71, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who has since left Congress, the law was intended to rein in the opaque derivatives market, tighten lending standards and address other structural problems that led to the crisis.
A year later, Mr. Frank has positioned himself as the law's chief defender.
Since leaving the Senate early this year, Mr. Dodd has shied away from discussing the measure. (He declined to comment for this article.)
Now that Mr. Dodd is a registered lobbyist representing the motion picture industry, federal law prohibits the two men from chatting with each other about their law for a year. Recently, Mr. Frank said he started to pick up the phone to call his former colleague before remembering the restriction.
Mr. Frank, a 16-term representative who was chairman of the House Financial Services Committee during the crisis, said Dodd-Frank was "clearly the best we've ever done in the history of the country to protect consumers and investors from abuses."
Not surprisingly, Wall Street is less fond of the new rules. Bank executives have torn into the law, claiming that it will cost them billions of dollars. They also warn that some regulations will push business overseas, where international regulators have yet to enact similar rules.
But the army of banking industry lobbyists will not find a sympathetic ear from Mr. Frank.
"To some extent, financial institutions have latched onto the motto of a 14-year-old child of divorced parents playing Mommy off against Daddy: 'Well, if you don't treat me better, I'm going to England,' " said Mr. Frank, who is known for his sarcastic wit.
"I hate to say this, but the impression I get most is that their feelings are hurt," he continued. "Mostly what I get is, 'Oh, you were rude to us. You said we were fat cats.' "
His response? "Get over it. I'm in the kind of business where people say rude things about us all the time."
Despite the rhetoric, Mr. Frank says Wall Street has gradually adjusted to the new reality. Most banks have spun off their proprietary trading desks, as required, and many are overhauling their derivatives business.
Mr. Frank says he believes the greater threat to Dodd-Frank comes from Congressional Republicans. Over the last several months, conservative lawmakers have moved to chip away at crucial components of the law, the derivatives rules among them. Some two dozen bills are pending in Congress to delay, dismantle or repeal the law altogether.
Under pressure from lawmakers and lobbyists, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission recently decided to postpone some derivatives rules for up to six months. The agency, like other regulators, has already missed many rule-making deadlines.
"They are trying to stall," Mr. Frank said of the Republicans, "and then hope that they will win the 2012 election with the support of the financial people." Once in control of Washington, he said, Republicans would "then undo what we were able to do, and then, yes, the system would be at risk."
Eager to act, Republicans are already taking aim at financial regulators and their budgets. In June, a House committee approved a plan to keep the Securities and Exchange Commission budget flat. And some lawmakers are now seeking outright cuts. Without increased financing, regulators say they lack the resources to enforce Dodd-Frank.
Some critics of the law contend that it skimped on the details, leaving regulatory agencies with too heavy a burden. Mr. Frank said Congress had no other choice.
"We didn't punt anything," he said. "It's precisely because we knew we couldn't get everything exactly right that we did leave room for the regulators."
The agencies have yet to disappoint, he said. So far, the S.E.C., the commodities commission and other agencies have proposed dozens of new rules under difficult conditions, earning them an A in Mr. Frank's report card.
"I think the regulators have done very well, with the exception of the Comptroller of the Currency," which he said had a reputation for forming cozy relationships with the national banks under its purview. Mr. Frank would give the comptroller a D.
An agency spokesman declined to comment.
Mr. Frank, a stubborn advocate for Dodd-Frank, is quick to acknowledge its shortcomings. "If I were writing it all by myself," he said, "it would have looked a little different."
He said he never liked the provision to cap the fees banks could charge retail stores every time a consumer swiped a debit card, a measure inserted by Senator Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. He also wanted to give the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the new watchdog created by the law, authority over car dealerships. But the dealers rallied allies in Congress and won an exemption from the agency's oversight.
The battle over the bureau has since shifted to its leadership. After a delay of nearly a year, President Obama this week nominated the bureau's enforcement chief, Richard Cordray, to lead the new agency. He was chosen over Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard professor who is currently setting up the bureau.
Mr. Frank supports Mr. Cordray, though he is not shy about saying that Ms. Warren was his "first choice." He had urged the president to appoint Ms. Warren since early this year, most recently during a private meeting about a month ago.
Mr. Frank hopes the battles will soon fade, in part so he can move on to the next fight. Even he concedes that arcane financial matters were never his strong point.
"I know more now about repos and derivatives than I ever wanted to know," he joked.
"I hope I'll some day be able to forget it."

        
Obama Signs Bill Overhauling Financial Rules
        
G.O.P. Lawmakers Vote to Delay Derivatives Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (96%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) Barney Frank; Christopher J. Dodd; Dodd-Frank Act; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; Frank, Barney; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Securities and Exchange Commission; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (99%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (92%) Frank, Barney

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



736 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Two Paths in Budget Debate and in 2012

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The budget debates are an inflection point in the 2012 campaign, and could dictate the strategies of both presidential and Congressional candidates.

 BODY:
Apart from being a critical moment for the United States' fiscal policy, the budget debates are an inflection point in the 2012 campaign. Particularly if an especially large deal is struck, like the Senate's "Gang of Six" plan, or if negotiations break down and Congress struggles to raise the debt ceiling, it could dictate the strategies of both presidential and Congressional candidates.
Incumbent presidents fundamentally have two strategies that they might want to pursue. The first path, the Referendum Path, is usually the preferred one if the president's approval ratings are strong and if voters are in a positive mood about the direction of the country. The strategy is no more complicated than asserting that the president has done a good job and deserves another term, the paradigm case perhaps being Ronald Reagan's 1984 "Morning in America" campaign.
If however the White House has doubts about whether it can win a referendum, it can instead pursue the Partisan Path. It's also pretty simple: the message is that however well the president might be doing, the alternative is worse.
The Partisan Path has been less likely to succeed because it tends to be undertaken under more difficult circumstances. But it has worked occasionally, like in 1948, when Harry Truman persuaded voters that the "Do-Nothing" Republican Congress was to blame for the country's economic problems. The Partisan Path was also adopted successfully in 2004 by George W. Bush, although Mr. Bush's approval ratings and the country's economic performance were probably just strong enough for him to have won re-election on the merits.
If the budget negotiations break down, it's going to more natural for President Obama to pursue the Partisan Path. The conditions for it are probably better than normal. Congress is even more unpopular than it is ordinarily. Many Republican presidential candidates are quite conservative, and none are especially popular. In the budget debate, Republicans appear to have lost credibility with the public, with opinion having shifted against them quite rapidly, both in terms of policy specifics and their overall approach.
A grand bargain on the deficit, on the other hand, would add to Mr. Obama's resume, which already includes the passage of a major health care bill and the killing of Osama Bin Laden. Mr. Obama's campaign would probably not be as sunny as Mr. Reagan's in 1984 due to the tepid economy (and since the health care bill is a bug rather than a feature for many voters). But it would emphasize having made tough choices and having solved big problems. Aided by relatively strong personal favorability ratings and what would probably be favorable press coverage coming out of the budget negotiations, Mr. Obama would position himself as the "adult in the room" and suggest that he had done reasonably well under difficult circumstances. This is a version of the Referendum Path.
Which of these strategies is more effective is likely to be determined by the condition of the economy.
If the economy performs about in line with current forecasts -- with growth being somewhere between slow and moderate -- the Referendum Path might be more likely to put Mr. Obama over the hump. It would be more consistent with his "post-partisan" branding from 2008 and Mr. Obama could point toward some signs that his approach had been successful, especially if the budget debate produces a major compromise.
On the other hand, if economic growth is more sluggish than expected (meaning that the country would be on the verge of recession since current expectations are already low) the "post-partisan" message might fall on deaf ears. In particular, it might fail to resonate with the Democratic base, many of whose members are unhappy with virtually all iterations of the budget proposals because they focus more on spending cuts than tax increases. The extremely poor results for Democrats in the 2010 elections were based to a large extent on turnout discrepancies and if the same conditions were to manifest themselves in 2012, Mr. Obama's re-election prospects would be dim. Even if some independent voters gave him credit for bipartisanship, at least as many might punish him for the poor condition of the economy.
The Partisan Path, in this instance, would give Mr. Obama more of a puncher's chance, particularly against a subpar Republican nominee.
Finally there is the possibility that economic growth is faster than expected and is genuinely good by 2012. In this scenario, Mr. Obama's choice of strategy is less important, since he is likely to win re-election either way. It could, however, plausibly affect elections to Congress. When government is divided, the party in charge of Congress does not necessarily "suffer" from a good economy. Instead, it is at least as likely to share in the credit, with all incumbents being positioned more strongly.
Under these circumstances, the president's Referendum Path message can implicitly, or even explicitly, become an endorsement of divided government. And the other party may be willing to play along. Republicans, for example, stuck a number of compromises with President Bill Clinton in 1996, making it harder for Bob Dole to draw contrasts with him. But their strategy produced a dividend: Republicans lost just 9 seats in the House and actually gained 2 in the Senate, retaining their majorities in both chambers.
My view, then, is that the electoral consequences of the budget debates are rather ambiguous. A "big deal" might tend to help Mr. Obama if economic growth is moderate, giving him another accomplishment to pitch to the public. But it could make his messaging awkward if growth is subpar, sacrificing some potential advantages stemming from the unpopularity of the Republican Congress. A major compromise on the budget also might not help Democrats if economic growth is stronger than expected, in which case their focus would turn to winning control of the Congress and would want to draw more rather than fewer contrasts.
There are also a couple of wild cards. One is how the budget debates might affect the cohesion of the Republican Party and the identity of their presidential nominee. A second is how a budget deal might affect the economy, either positively or negatively. These factors are well worth considering, although beyond the scope of this column. There is also the possibility that the country, rather than merely flirting with a default, actually endures one, which could produce an different trajectory without meaningful historical precedent.
In general, however, I would advise both sides in the budget debate to prioritize policy considerations: they may tend to dictate the political outcomes rather than the other way around.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); REFERENDUMS (75%); CONSERVATISM (70%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



737 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: West's Words Ignite Donation Drives

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Democrats try to raise money -- and the ire of voters -- by publicizing Rep. Allen West's attack on Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz.

 BODY:
The clash between Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, and Allen West, a Tea Party freshman, has ignited fundraising campaigns against Mr. West, and in support of him, as well as calls for him to apologize and be censured.
The spat between the two Floridians, who represent neighboring Congressional districts, began Tuesday on the House floor and may well end at the polls next year.
After Ms. Wasserman Schultz criticized Mr. West indirectly for supporting Republicans' "Cut, Cap and Balance" legislation, Mr. West responded in an e-mail calling her "the most vile, unprofessional, and despicable member of the U.S. House of Representatives" and "not a lady."
On Wednesday, Democrats seized on Mr. West's insults and sought to make them a campaign issue. Steve Israel, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, blasted an e-mail to supporters denouncing Mr. West's "hate-filled screed." He asks for donations of $3 or more to raise $100,000 to help defeat him and other "disgraceful Republicans" in 2012. He says the total will be matched by Democratic lawmakers.
"Unfortunately, this is exactly the sort of partisan tantrum we're used to from House Republicans as they push our economy to the brink of disaster while pandering to their Tea Party base," he said.
"We can't let this shameful display go unanswered," he added.
Mr. West, meanwhile, sent an e-mail to his supporters asking for a $25 donation to help him "join thousands of other patriotic Americans in standing up against the vicious attack from the Democratic National Party."
Some of those attacks came from people close to home. 
 Lois J. Frankel, the former mayor of West Palm Beach and a former state lawmaker who is seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Mr. West next year, said his remarks were "out of control, rude, sexist and completely inappropriate" and called on him to apologize "to every woman who's been told to 'shut up' and sit quietly in the corner and to every senior citizen who, if West and his right wing allies get their way, will have to worry about whether they will be able to afford their health care."
Jen Bluestein of EMILY's List, the political action committee that backs female candidates who support abortion rights (including Ms. Frankel), accused Mr. West, of an attack that was "adolescent and threatening, sexist and full of rage."
"His treatment of Debbie Wasserman Schultz reveals for once and for all a temperament that has no place in our politics and a view of other human beings that is out of touch with South Florida and frankly, with the country," she wrote on the PAC's blog.
Another Democratic challenger, Patrick Murphy, a businessman from Fort Lauderdale, called for House Republicans to "immediately" censure Mr. West, saying he is "unhinged" and lacks self-control.
Mr. West's behavior "is unbecoming a member of Congress," he said.
Mr. West represents the 22nd Congressional district in southern Florida. An outsider and a newcomer to politics in 2010, Mr. West beat an established Democrat, Ron Klein, in a district that leans left and went to Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential election.

        
West Calls Wasserman Schultz 'Vile'
        
Priebus Criticizes Democrats' Response to Weiner Scandal
        
It's Official: Wasserman Schultz Is New Democratic Chief
        
Planning Comeback, Democrats Huddle with Ousted Members
        
Congresswoman Cites Hero of Arizona Shooting in Opposing Health Care Repeal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US HOUSE ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); WOMEN (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ABORTION (50%) allen west; Debbie Wasserman Schultz; Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; Congress

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (83%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (57%)

PERSON: DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (90%); ALLEN WEST (90%); LOIS FRANKEL (79%); PATRICK E MURPHY (79%); STEVE ISRAEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



738 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: In L.A., Romney Returns to Familiar Script

BYLINE: JENNIFER MEDINA


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney chose a desolate strip mall in the San Fernando Valley, just north of Los Angeles, as the spot to criticize President Obama's economic policies.

 BODY:
NORTH HOLLYWOOD - With the paint peeling from the rooftops of the shuttered store fronts here, it was not exactly a glamorous backdrop. But it is likely for that reason that Mitt Romney chose this desolate strip mall in the San Fernando Valley, just north of Los Angeles, as the spot to criticize President Obama's economic policies. "Sadly, as we look around here it's a development that is no longer a development," Mr. Romney said. "There was a plan to put a $600 million shopping mall here and that has been scrapped because of the challenging economic situation. Obviously not all of the situation is a result of the administration. A lot of the economic woes you see around you are the result of errors that have been made over a long period of time, but what has happened in the last couple of years has not helped." This was the same spot where John F. Kennedy delivered a stump speech in 1960, Mr. Romney said, and called it one of the "greatest malls in America." "It's certainly lost that," Mr. Romney added. As he warmed up, Mr. Romney, who has kept a low profile lately, seemed to get a bit more feisty. "The president's policies almost without question have caused this recession to be deeper and longer than it would have been with better policies," Mr. Romney said, near the end of his brief remarks. "We're now three years into his four year term and unemployment is still above eight percent," he added. "If that's not the definition of failure, I dont know what is." He said Mr. Obama had been too distracted to zero in on the economy. "Instead of focusing on getting people back to work, he focused on a liberal agenda that did not work," Mr. Romney said, with a few dozen people applauding his talking points. "What I'd do is spend all my time getting people back to work." Taking the opportunity to weigh in on the debt ceiling fight, Mr. Romney, who has not discussed it much publicly, also suggested he did not favor the so-called "Gang of Six" compromise being discussed in the capital. "I've expressed my views. I think the right course for the president is to accept the cut cap and balance proposal that has been passed by the house. We spend too much money I simply just dont understnad why the president is insistent on raising taxes at a time when we are trying to put people back to work." Mr. Romney brushed aside a reporter's question about Michelle Bachman's health, saying it should not be an issue in the campaign. And less than 15 minutes after he arrived on the scorching hot asphalt, Mr. Romney ducked back into his black SUV and was off again.

        
Republicans Gather (Virtually) for Twitter Debate
        
Bachmann Says Migraines 'Easily Controlled'
        
Bachmann Off to Strong Start in Money Race
        
Cain Raised $2 Million and Contributed $500,000
        
Gingrich Campaign Is $1 Million in Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); RECESSION (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); DEBT CEILING (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); TRENDS (66%) 2012 presidential campaign; Republicans; Romney, Mitt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Los Angeles (Calif); Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



739 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Bonuses For Billionaires

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
The first few times I heard House Republicans talk about our budget mess, I worried that they had plunged off the deep end. But as I kept on listening, a buzzer went off in my mind, and I came to understand how much sense the Tea Party caucus makes.
Why would we impose ''job-crushing taxes'' on wealthy Americans just to pay for luxuries like federal prisons? Why end the ''carried interest'' tax loophole for financiers, just to pay for unemployment benefits -- especially when those same selfless tycoons are buying yachts and thus creating jobs for all the rest of us? 
Hmmm. The truth is that House Republicans don't actually go far enough. They should follow the logic of their more visionary members with steps like these:
BONUSES FOR BILLIONAIRES Republicans won't extend unemployment benefits, even in the worst downturn in 70 years, because that makes people lazy about finding jobs. They're right: We should be creating incentives for Americans to rise up the food chain by sending hefty checks to every new billionaire. This could be paid for with a tax surcharge on regular working folks. It's the least we can do.
Likewise, the government should take sterner measures against the persistent jobless. Don't just let their unemployment benefits expire. Take their homes!
Oh, never mind! Silly me! The banks are already doing that.
LET JOBS TRICKLE DOWN Leftist pundits say that House Republicans don't have a jobs plan. That's unfair! Granted, the Republican-sponsored Cut, Cap and Balance Act would eliminate 700,000 jobs in just its first year, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, but those analysts are no doubt liberals. America's richest 400 people own more wealth than the bottom 150 million Americans, and the affluent would feel renewed confidence if the Republican plan passed. We'd see a hiring bonanza. Each of those wealthy people might hire an extra pool attendant. That's 400 jobs right there!
Cut, Cap and Balance would go even further than the Ryan budget plan in starving the beast of government. Sure, that'll mean cuts in Social Security, Medicare and other programs, but so what? Who needs food safety? How do we know we really need air traffic control unless we try a day without it?
ROOT OUT SOCIALISM Republicans have been working to end Medicare as we know it but need to examine other reckless entitlements, such as our socialized education system, in which public schools fritter resources on classes like economics and foreign languages. As a former Texas governor, Miriam ''Ma'' Ferguson, is said to have declared when she opposed the teaching of foreign languages: ''If English was good enough for Jesus Christ, it's good enough for us.''
For that matter, who needs socialized police and fire services? We could slash job-crushing taxes at the local level and simply let the free market take over:
''9-1-1, may I help you?'' ''Yes, help! My house is burning down!'' ''Very good, sir. I can offer you one fire engine for $5,995, or two for just $10,000.'' ''Help! My family's inside. Send three fire engines! Just hurry!'' ''Yes, sir. Let me just run your credit card first. And if you require the fire trucks immediately, there's a 50 percent 'rush' surcharge.''
CHILL OUT ABOUT THE DEBT CEILING House Republicans like Michele Bachmann are right: If the debt ceiling isn't raised, some solution will turn up. As Representative Austin Scott, a Republican from Georgia, observes: ''In the end, the sun is going to come up tomorrow.''
We got through the Great Depression, didn't we? It looked pretty hopeless in 1929, but in just a dozen years World War II bailed us out with an economic stimulus. Something like that'll come along for us, too. Ya gotta have faith.
CONSIDER ASSET SALES While Democrats are harrumphing about ''default,'' Republicans have sagely noted that there are alternatives in front of our noses. For example, why raise taxes on hard-pressed managers of hedge funds when the government can sell assets?
Fort Knox alone has 4,600 tons of gold, which I figure is worth around $235 billion. That's enough to pay our military budget for four months! And selling Yosemite, Yellowstone and the Grand Canyon would buy us time as well.
RENT OUT CONGRESS If the debt ceiling isn't raised, we could also auction members of Congress for day jobs: Are you a financier who wants someone to flip burgers (steaks?) at your child's birthday party? Why, here's Eric Cantor! Many members of Congress already work on behalf of tycoons, and this way the revenue would flow to the Treasury.
Finally, if we risk default, let's rent out the Capitol for weddings to raise money for the public good. Wouldn't it be nice to see something positive emerge from the House?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (87%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MEDICARE (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); STARVATION (72%); PRISONS (71%); FOOD SAFETY (67%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (62%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); RELIGION (60%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



740 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: To Nullify Lead, Add a Bunch of Fish Bones

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
OAKLAND, Calif. -- Alaskan pollock is usually the faux stand-in for crab meat or the main ingredient in fast-food fish sandwiches. But now the flaky fish is moving into a new realm -- as part of the solution to one of the nation's longest-running toxic waste problems.
Today, there is more lead contamination in America's cities than any federal or state agency could ever afford to clean up and haul away. So scientists and regulators are trying a new strategy, transforming the dangerous metal into a form the human body cannot absorb, thus vastly reducing the risk of lead poisoning. 
The principle is straightforward, said Victor R. Johnson, an engineer with Civil & Environmental Consultants Inc. ''The fish bones are full of calcium phosphate,'' he said. ''As they degrade, the phosphates migrate into the soil.'' The lead in the soil, deposited by car exhaust from the decades when gasoline contained lead or from lead-based paint residue, binds with the phosphate and transforms into pyromorphite, a crystalline mineral that will not harm anyone even if consumed.
This alchemy has been practiced in university and commercial laboratories for more than 15 years, and more recently has been employed at acid-mine sites and military bases.
But now it is also coming to residential neighborhoods like South Prescott in Oakland, which this month became the first in the country where fishbone meal is being mixed into the soil for lead control under a project organized by the Environmental Protection Agency.
''It's fair to say, looking forward, that just about every urban residential area probably has a lead problem and we just can't afford economically and socially to move that amount of dirt any more,'' said Steve Calanog, the E.P.A. official in the San Francisco office that is overseeing the project. ''Topsoil is a precious resource, and we don't have enough topsoil to replace it.''
Although the agency does not record its spending by individual contaminants, it is safe to say it has spent millions of dollars on lead cleanup. If the new techniques of neutralizing toxic metals catch on the money would go further by replacing the method of digging up and disposing of hundreds of thousands of tons of soil that has been used for more than two decades.
The effects of lead poisoning, particularly on young children's ability to learn, have long been recognized by scientists. Yet lead remains one of the most prevalent contaminants in the country, particularly in urban areas.
The project in South Prescott, expected to cover a six-block area and cost $4 million over two years, will train up to 75 workers, many previously unemployed, in toxic cleanup methods. In this 100-year-old neighborhood of west Oakland, the average contamination levels in the soil are twice the federal limit of 400 parts per million, and some hot spots have lead levels five or six times greater, Mr. Calanog said. South Prescott was built on landfills holding the detritus of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. When the houses were built for workers at the nearby railyards, pipes and paint contained large quantities of lead. Later, trucks rumbled by on the way to the port of Oakland, and highways were built nearby.
When it came to fixing the problem, local E.P.A. officials consulted with community leaders. The fishbone approach appealed to everyone involved because no one liked the idea of the heavy construction associated with soil removal, or the idea of taking and dumping the toxic soil on another community, Mr. Calanog said.
''The whole notion of adding an amendment to the soil to change the mineral form of a contaminant and make it safe is great,'' said Sally Brown, a research professor in ecology and environment at the University of Washington. Other scientists have looked at materials like leaf compost or manure, while Professor Brown favors composts high in iron content, like the sludge from wastewater treatment.
When the ground dug for Michelle Obama's vegetable garden at the White House was found to have some lead (93 parts per million), ground crab shells were added to help neutralize the toxicity. Pollock processed in Alaska works particularly well because by the time it has been processed for fillets, soup and food for Japanese eel farms, all remnants of meat have been blown off with large industrial blowers and the dry bones clink when they touch one another.
Maggie O'Donnell, the president of the project's contractor, SFS Chemical Safety Inc., is looking for a place to store the 1.1-ton sacks of fishbone meal being shipped in from processing plants in Dutch Harbor, Alaska. She and her colleagues estimate they will need one sack of bones per contaminated front or backyard, and they have as many as 149 yards to go, provided the property owners agree to the cleanup. SFS officials said workers will be able to work around plants and trees without harming them.
So far they have finished one yard, a large vacant lot on Henry Street. There, workers trained in construction and other job skills by the Cypress-Mandela Training Center spread a paste of dampened bone meal before the Fourth of July weekend and, with a powerful rototiller, worked it into the soil.
Judith Wright, a chemist whose Richland, Wash., company, PIMS NW, supplies the bone meal, said that while the lead and phosphate could bond instantly if they were dissolved, the process might take a few weeks in the ground.
There was one unexpected glitch in the first fishbone application. Four young men, each wearing white Tyvek coveralls, topped some of the redolent mixture with topsoil, put tarps over the rest and left for the holiday weekend.
The temperature was above 90 degrees.
''It kind of got cooking,'' Brian Davis, one of the Cypress-Mandela workers, said about the fishbone meal.
When the tarps were removed four days later, the stench hit the workers like a hammer; topsoil was quickly applied.
Connie Davis, 76, who lives across the street from the treated yard, said: ''You could smell a rotten smell. At first we didn't know what it was.'' A week later, no smell could be detected as the workers tamped down a final layer of topsoil.
Mr. Johnson, the engineer, said in the future work areas would be tackled a couple of square yards at a time, with each covered completely before work began on the next place. ''Speed is important,'' Ms. O'Donnell added.
Mr. Calanog does not see this as a problem. ''The smell is not of fish,'' he said. ''It's of toxic lead going away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at a lot in the South Prescott neighborhood in west Oakland, Calif., where fishbone meal was applied to tainted soil.
 A sack of crushed fishbone that is worked into the soil to neutralize the lead. The process has been used at military bases. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEAD (92%); LEAD PAINT (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); LEAD POISONING (76%); POISONINGS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); CHILDREN (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



741 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Gaming Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBB MANDELBAUM

 BODY:
That's one notion that seems to be circulating among small-business owners and their advisers lately. Consultants at McKinsey & Company floated the suggestion as part of their controversial report on employer views of health insurance. And in The Times's coverage of that report, Milt Freudenheim interviewed a small-business owner who said he was hoping to ''game the system.'' The owner, Gerry Harkins, who is also chairman of the National Federation of Independent Business's Georgia State Leadership Council, said he might split his Atlanta-based construction company into two smaller companies to evade the overhaul's employer mandate, specifically the penalties on companies that fail to offer affordable health insurance to employees. 
Unfortunately for Mr. Harkins (who did not return a call from The Agenda seeking an elaboration of his comments), the authors of the Affordable Care Act are one step ahead of him, according to several tax and benefit lawyers contacted by The Agenda. The authors included a provision that basically adopts parts of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that say any group of companies under common control are to be treated as a single company. Common control is defined as the same five or fewer people owning at least 80 percent of the companies, according to Al Martin, a tax lawyer at the Kansas City law firm Lathrop & Gage. Spouses and children are generally considered one owner, according to Mr. Martin.
No doubt this will make it difficult for people like Mr. Harkins to game the system. ''You're going to wind up changing economic relationships if you avoid the rules,'' he said. ''You've got to change ownership structure.''
''The idea that that would be an easy thing to do would be hard for me to believe,'' added Jon Staudt, a tax lawyer with Belin McCormick in Des Moines. ''People have been trying to avoid the E.R.I.S.A. law so that they could have separate pension plans, for example, pretty unsuccessfully for 36 years.''
The McKinsey consultants, for their part, had other reasons for proposing a split. The thrust of their advice is to find ways to wean lower-wage employees off employer-sponsored coverage while keeping higher-wage employees, who won't be eligible for subsidies, insured.
Until the Affordable Care Act, federal law was a bit schizophrenic when it came to group health insurance plans for 50 or more people. A company that funded its own health insurance plan - a strategy that often makes financial sense for companies with several hundred participants - was subject to an antidiscrimination law that punished those plans for offering looser eligibility requirements or better benefits to top executives.
''The basic rule is you can do anything you want, but if the plan is self-funded, and if the effect of it is that the highly paid get the Cadillac deal and everybody else gets the Ford, that's not going to work,'' said Charles Wolfe, a lawyer at the Chicago law firm Vedder Price, and a co-chairman of an employee benefits committee of the American Bar Association. ''The executives are going to get taxed.''
There was a loophole, however: because group plans insured by a third party (like an insurance company) are regulated by the states, they weren't subject to federal discrimination laws. The solution for big companies, said Mr. Wolfe, was to self fund health insurance for the rank and file and buy a separate insured plan for the executives.
Now the Affordable Care Act is poised to close that loophole by applying the same antidiscrimination rules for self-funded plans to insured plans. (Because the regulations have not been written, the Internal Revenue Service is not yet enforcing this provision of the new law.) One option McKinsey proposes is to split the company into two separate entities, one with company managers and others who would get employer-sponsored insurance and the other for employees who would get no insurance. The company without insurance would have to pay the mandate penalty on those employees, and perhaps even additional compensation, but that could still be cheaper than buying their coverage.
Ah, but beware of free advice, which, as they say, is often worth what you pay for it. Here again, Congress linked the antidiscrimination law for self-funded plans to E.R.I.S.A.'s common-control provision. And the section of the Affordable Care Act that extends the discrimination ban to insured plans explicitly ties the new ban to those same common-control rules. McKinsey's suggestion ''strikes me as a bit odd, in the sense that I don't think it will be possible for a company to keep its corporate or senior management in one company and the rest of its work force in another company and still provide tax-advantaged benefits to the senior management,'' said Philip Mowrey, one of Mr. Wolfe's partners at Vedder Price.
A McKinsey spokeswoman said the firm had no comment.
The penalty assessed under the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Mowrey also noted, was stiff: $100 a day multiplied by every employee discriminated against.
At least in theory, that is. According to Mr. Mowrey, the discrimination regulations for self-funded plans have never really been enforced, because they don't address very well the new types of health care plans that have been developed since the regulations were adopted in 1981. ''It was sort of a moribund law,'' he said. With the expansion created by the Affordable Care Act, he says, it's clear that the I.R.S. is committed to implementing the bans for both kinds of insurance plans.
That means the only way a business owner will be able to beat the health care law by splitting a company into two will be by selling one, or most of one, of the resulting pieces.
4:10 p.m. Clarification A previous version of this post reported that federal law banned self-funded plans from offering looser eligibility requirements or better benefits to top executives. As commenter No. 5 points out (and as we quote Charles Wolfe explaining), the law actually discourages such plans; it doesn't ban them.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); LAWYERS (87%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%); LATHROP & GAGE LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%) GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



742 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Borough Leader Wants an End to Earmarks

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, called on Wednesday for the abolition of the $49 million pot of money the City Council distributes each year to nonprofit groups, saying the process for giving out the grants had become overly political. 
Mr. Stringer, whose office conducted a yearlong study of the funds, said the current system had led to vast economic disparities. He pointed to one Upper East Side district that received twice as much in grants as a far less affluent district in Washington Heights.
''At a time of dwindling government resources, New York City must be more committed than ever to allocating tax dollars in a way that is transparent, equitable and free of political favoritism,'' Mr. Stringer said in a 24-page report (pdf).
Every year, each of the 51 council members gives out grants ranging from $80,000 to more than $1 million. The Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, has her own fund totaling about $18 million.
In his report, Mr. Stringer said that city agencies, not the Council, should decide how to distribute the funds. He said that each district should get a lump sum or that the money should be distributed on the basis of economic need.
Almost immediately after releasing his report, Mr. Stringer, a likely mayoral contender in 2013, faced questions about whether he was taking aim at Ms. Quinn, a potential rival for the mayoralty. He brushed aside those suggestions.
''This is not about any one person,'' he said. ''This is about a system that has been broken for decades and needs to be fixed.''
Ms. Quinn has said that the grants are a lifeline to many small community groups, and that council members are often best positioned to know the needs of their districts.
The pot of money has come under scrutiny after a series of fraud and abuse scandals involving several council members.
An analysis in The New York Times earlier this year showed that some of the city's poorest districts received the smallest amount in earmarks. In addition, politically connected nonprofit groups often receive a large share of the Council's money.
Maria Alvarado, a council spokeswoman, said that Ms. Quinn was proud of her efforts to increase transparency in the budget. ''We look forward to reviewing his report,'' Ms. Alvarado said in a statement.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); SCANDALS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



743 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Makes Fallback Plans For Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and JULIE CRESWELL; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Lawmakers in Washington are racing to reach a deal to save the country from defaulting on its debt, but on Wall Street, financial players are devising doomsday plans in case the clock runs out.
These companies are taking steps to reduce the risk of holding Treasury bonds or angling for ways to make profits from any possible upheaval. And even if a deal is reached in Washington, some in the industry fear that the dickering has already harmed the country's market credibility.
On Wall Street, Treasuries function like a currency, and investors often use these bonds, which are supposed to be virtually fail-proof, as security deposits in their trading in the markets. Now, banks are sifting through their holdings and their customers' holdings to determine if these security deposits will retain their value. In addition, mutual funds -- which own billions of dollars in Treasuries -- are working on presentations to persuade their boards that they can hold the bonds even if the government debt is downgraded. And hedge funds are stockpiling cash so they can buy up United States debt if other investors flee. 
The rating agencies, which control the fateful decision of whether the nation deserves to have its credit standing downgraded, are surveying other entities that would be affected by a United States default -- like insurance companies and states -- and issuing warnings that a United States downgrade could result in several other ratings cuts. States that might be downgraded, in turn, are trying to reassure the market that they could still pay their bills on time.
All these contingency plans hinge on the pivotal date of Aug. 2, when the Obama administration has said it will no longer be able to finance government obligations without raising the $14.3 trillion cap on government borrowing. If lawmakers do not act before then, it will be difficult for the Treasury to meet coming interest payments as well as obligations to government employees, vendors and programs like Social Security and Medicare.
Even though many on Wall Street believe that a default remains unlikely, the financial markets are starting to become agitated. Volatility in stocks has soared, and some investors say stock prices are falling because a United States default could severely raise companies' costs of doing business.
In the Treasury market, investors are starting to sell, fearing that the government will not make good on some interest payments that will be due next month. And complex financial instruments that will pay out if the United States defaults have become twice as expensive to buy as they were at the start of the year.
Analysts say the signs of panic are small for now.
''The metaphor is a pile of sand,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Analytics. ''You keep putting one piece of sand on the pile, nothing happens, and then, all of the sudden it just caves.''
Several traders and bankers, including Mr. Zandi, said the imminence of a possible default was already damaging the United States' standing as the most creditworthy country in the world. The tarnished reputation may linger, even if the government reaches a deal, and especially if the country's financial books remain unbalanced.
''Our aura is diminished. You know people really view the U.S. as the AAA, the gold standard, and I think we're tarnishing that,'' Mr. Zandi said.
The government began preparing for much tougher borrowing conditions in the years since the financial crisis, shifting toward issuing longer-term debt. This was especially needed because much of the debt issued to cover the financial crisis of 2008 was short-term debt.
The United States still enjoys low borrowing costs -- below 3 percent on a 10-year-note -- but there is fear that the theatrics around the current debate will increase those costs. Low national borrowing costs translate into lower borrowing costs for American corporations and individuals.
Deterioration of investor confidence in the United States could also hurt the value of the dollar, according to William H. Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pimco, a bond fund based in California. Mr. Gross said he believed that the dollar would become weaker because of the country's inability to deal with its rising deficit. Instead, he favors currencies in China, Canada, Brazil and Mexico. Compared with the balance sheet of the United States, he said, ''their dirty shirts are much cleaner.''
In New York, the hedge fund KLS Diversified Asset Management has been accumulating cash to take advantage of profit-making opportunities if, for instance, investors are forced to sell cheaply because of a decline in the nation's credit rating.
KLS was founded in the summer of 2008, and it weathered that storm in part by having lots of cash on hand, though back then it also was able to consider its Treasury holdings to be nearly as safe as cash. In the case of a United States default, KLS says it believes it can make money if investors flee the market, said Harry Lengsfield, a managing partner of the firm .
In his view, a default is unlikely but it should not be a surprise if one occurs. ''It's hard to argue that this case hasn't been telegraphed and people haven't been warned and warned again,'' he said.
One of the worst possibilities that people in the financial industry, like Mr. Lengsfield, have been discussing is that scores of insurance companies, pension funds and mutual funds might be forced to dump their Treasury holdings. Some investors have rules that they cannot hold assets that are rated below AAA. It was this sort of rule that drove the forced selling of mortgage bonds during the financial crisis.
But in some cases, Treasuries may be exempt from the AAA rules.
Deborah Cunningham, who oversees $271 billion in money market funds at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh, said the funds themselves -- even the Treasury-only money funds -- would not be pressured to dump their holdings if there were a downgrade. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations say only that the funds have to invest in Treasuries, not that those Treasuries must be triple-A rated, she said.
Several weeks ago, Ms. Cunningham put plans in place to deal with a default. The firm will convene a teleconference with the boards of affected funds, she said, and, she is considering arguing for holding onto the federal debt.
''We have to justify to the board why we would want to continue to hold them, which might be because they are a high-quality, minimum-risk security,'' Ms. Cunningham said.
Still, it is unclear whether other investors might stampede for the exits.
''The question I think investors are going to face is, Where do they go?'' asked Ms. Cunningham. ''Do they go to foreign banks? U.S. commercial paper issuers? U.S. agencies? Is there a safer haven than Treasury securities?''
As early as this spring, bankers began assessing the exposure of their trading positions if interest rates spiked, which would probably occur if there was a default. They have also been evaluating whether they may need to demand additional security deposits from trading customers.
At Wells Fargo, for example, executives said they had been keeping close tabs on the bond market and making sure they had ample cash on hand.
Timothy J. Sloan, Wells Fargo's chief financial officer, said that if Congress could not reach a deal or if there was a spike in interest rates, his bank would be there to handle the situation. But in terms of specifics, he said, there was not much banks could do. ''Because nobody knows what is going to happen, nobody knows how to prepare,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deborah Cunningham of Federated Investors in Pittsburgh created plans several weeks ago for dealing with a federal default. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) CHART: Insuring U.S. Debt Becoming Costlier Again: As the United States runs out of time to reach a debt limit deal, the cost of credit-default swaps that insure investors against a U.S. default is going up. (Source: Bloomberg, via Moody's Analytics) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); MEDICARE (72%); INSURANCE (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



744 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Countrywide To Distribute Settlement To Its Clients

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
More than 450,000 borrowers who were charged excessive fees by Countrywide Home Loans when they fell behind on their mortgages will finally begin receiving the $108 million the company agreed to pay in a settlement struck with the Federal Trade Commission in June 2010, the agency said Wednesday.
The number of consumers recovering money in the settlement is one of the largest in the F.T.C.'s history and wound up being double what the commission had estimated. Most will get $500 or less, but 0.16 percent will receive $5,000 or more, the trade commission said. 
''It is astonishing that one single company could be responsible for overcharging more than 450,000 homeowners, which is more than 1 percent of all the mortgages in the United States,'' Jon Leibowitz, chairman of the trade commission, said in an interview. Countrywide's ''was a business model based on deceit and corruption, and the harm they caused to American consumers is absolutely massive and extraordinary.''
The excessive fees and improper charges were levied on borrowers whose loans were serviced by Countrywide. Most of those receiving money under the settlement -- almost 350,000 customers -- were routinely charged excessive amounts by Countrywide for default-related services.
To profit from property inspections, title searches and maintenance on homes going through foreclosure, Countrywide set up subsidiaries to do the work and marked up the cost of the services by more than 100 percent. The company's strategy was aimed at increasing profits from default-related services during bad economic times, the trade commission said. Some troubled borrowers were charged $300 by Countrywide to mow their lawns, for example.
An additional 102,331 people will share in the settlement because Countrywide gave them incorrect figures about how much they owed on their mortgages or added fees and escrow charges without notice, the trade commission said. Because these borrowers had filed Chapter 13 bankruptcies to try to keep their homes, the erroneous amounts supplied by Countrywide were also filed with the courts. Of these borrowers, about 43,000 were charged improper fees that Countrywide levied after their bankruptcies had been concluded and they were no longer under court supervision.
The recipients under the settlement are borrowers whose loans were serviced by Countrywide between Jan. 1, 2005, and July 1, 2008. In addition to being the nation's largest mortgage lender, Countrywide was the biggest loan servicer, administering $1.4 trillion in mortgages. Countrywide nearly collapsed under the weight of its subprime lending, however, and was acquired in a fire sale by Bank of America in 2008.
It took more than a year to identify all of the borrowers injured by Countrywide's practices because the company's records were completely disorganized and chaotic, according to people briefed on the investigation. After the deal was struck, Bank of America was given 30 days to provide the F.T.C. with a list of borrowers who had been overcharged. The company failed to meet the deadline and its later assessments of those who had been victimized were found to be incomplete.
Ultimately, Bank of America had to hire an accounting firm to determine that it had correctly identified all the borrowers who were owed money.
When Bank of America settled the F.T.C.'s charges last year, it said it was doing so ''to avoid the expense and distraction associated with litigating the case.'' The company did not admit wrongdoing but was barred from the conduct cited by the commission. It also agreed to use a ''data integrity program'' to ensure that the information it used in servicing loans in Chapter 13 cases was accurate.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about Countrywide Financial's pending distribution to mortgage customers of a $108 million Federal Trade Commission settlement misstated the percentage of borrowers who will receive the largest amounts. Those who will receive $5,000 or more under the program total 0.16 percent of participants, not 5 percent. (The dollar amount to be received by those customers is 5 percent of the total.) The article also erroneously attributed a distinction to the Countrywide settlement. It involves one of the largest groups of recipients in an F.T.C. case, but not the largest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011



745 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: City Finds Itself in Uncharted Financial Waters

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
HARRISBURG, Pa. -- When officials here rejected a state-sponsored financial recovery plan on Tuesday night, the city was briefly transformed into the Greece of Pennsylvania, with residents taking a stand against fiscal austerity despite the risk to their own economy.
The city's finances have been destroyed in recent years by a troubled trash incinerator project that has left Harrisburg with more than $300 million in debt payments (more than quadruple the city's annual budget). The plan that city officials voted against Tuesday night included selling city assets to meet obligations to bondholders. 
Torpedoing the plan had long been the goal of a small group of residents, who argued that it required deep sacrifices from taxpayers but nothing from banks and bondholders.
They were not swayed by arguments from the mayor, Linda D. Thompson, state and county officials, and much of the city's business community, who argued that any plan was better than no plan and that the city should do all it could to honor its debts.
''I ask you to consider one thing,'' said David E. Black, president of the Harrisburg Chamber of Commerce and Economic Development Corporation. ''What does 'no' look like?''
The critics' view prevailed, with four of seven City Council members voting against the plan Tuesday night, and on Wednesday, the city started living the answer to Mr. Black's question.
''It's a nervous place to be,'' said Neil Grover, a lawyer who led the effort against the state plan. ''It's new territory for everybody. No city has ever reached this point.''
The city is indeed in uncharted waters. Steve Kratz, a spokesman for Pennsylvania's Department of Community and Economic Development, said that no municipality had ever rejected distressed status, which grants access to state funds in exchange for accepting an outside adviser's recovery plan. Ms. Thompson now has two weeks to come up with her own plan.
The way Mr. Grover and his allies see it, this city has behaved like a binge borrower, enabled by financiers, using credit cards to pay off credit cards for things it never should have bought. They argue that the latest plan, which called for the sale of city assets like its parking garages, amounted to yet another short-term fix.
''It was throwing Harrisburg to the wolves,'' said Eric Papenfuse, a bookstore owner who has been an outspoken critic of the plan. It would have allowed ''those who lent money and the politicians who voted for it to escape without accountability and with money in their pockets.''
In an interview, Ms. Thompson said that she would ensure the burden was shared. She said the city had been arguing with itself for two years -- it first missed a bond payment in 2009 -- and that the plan, which was drawn up by an outside adviser, provided the only realistic roadmap.
''I don't plan on making any drastic changes,'' she said. ''I've not had anyone show me a better way out of this situation.''
But there is concern that Ms. Thompson's administration is not strong enough to fashion its own plan. One council member, Patty Kim, even voted to pass the state plan because, ''I don't want to wait for another plan, especially from the mayor,'' she said.
Last year, Mr. Grover formed a group, Debt Watch Harrisburg, to bring together like-minded taxpayers who were as exasperated as he was by what he described as years of bad decisions by politicians. It now has about 150 members, he said, and they brought hard questions to public hearings last fall. He says the group's agenda is not political, though he acknowledged that he once worked on a campaign of one of Ms. Thompson's opponents. One of the members, a former writing teacher who is also his neighbor, started a Web site, Today's the Day Harrisburg, where the debt is debated.
''We are the ones who write the check for this at the other end,'' Mr. Grover said. ''We wanted to have a voice in the process.''
Most of the city's problems flow from a failed trash incinerator project that has saddled the city with $310 million in debt. The borrowing occurred under the former mayor, Stephen R. Reed, who said in an interview that he felt ''outraged'' that the project created such a staggering debt burden, but that he had never seen a clear explanation of why the cost had been so underestimated.
''We kept borrowing money to put Band-Aids on it,'' said William Cluck, a lawyer who serves on the board of the agency that owns the incinerator. The incinerator's debts are the subject of at least seven lawsuits against the city, he said. Some residents had been pushing for bankruptcy, as it would freeze those claims, but the state legislature recently banned it as an option until 2012.
Rejecting the plan will cut it off from state funds, and Mr. Cluck said that is something that the city -- with about half its property tax exempt, and about a quarter of the residents below poverty level -- can ill afford.
''This city is crumbling,'' said Corky Goldstein, a resident who spoke on Tuesday. ''The people need something. If we vote no, there's no plan. If there's no plan, we're not going to make it.''
Robert Philbin, Ms. Thompson's spokesman, said the mayor had spent the day talking on the phone, ''reassuring stakeholders that there's not going to be any dramatic change'' in the course of action.
The law is unclear, he said, on whether she needs to get approval of the City Council. If so, Ms. Thompson said that passage would ''take an act of God.''
Mr. Grover considered it a fresh start.
''If people face their responsibilities, the city will be in control of its own destiny,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Neil Grover, who led the effort against a state-sponsored financial recovery plan, said: ''It's new territory for everybody.''
 Members of the Harrisburg City Council, which rejected a plan Tuesday that included selling city assets to meet obligations. The city's finances have been hurt by a trash incinerator project. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MORALES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); BONDS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); DIVESTITURES (75%); MAYORS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COUNTIES (73%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (96%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



746 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Intelligent Life in Congress: The 'Gang of Six' plan is a starting point for serious debt talks, if the House accepts reason

 BODY:
The House has been frittering away precious time on ideological games, forcing Congress to miss its Friday deadline for an agreement on raising the debt ceiling. Fortunately, there are signs of adulthood in Washington's sandbox, and it remains possible that a deal could be reached to prevent the loss of America's credit standing.
The Friday target was originally imposed by the White House to allow time to pass a bill before default begins just 11 days later on Aug. 2. With economic calamity clearly in sight, markets beginning to rattle and even cynical economists getting scared, the desperate search for a plan to raise the debt limit is a 24-hour operation at the Capitol. (The right thing for Congress to do, of course, was to pass a clean raise to the limit, but the Republicans would not let that happen.) 
On Tuesday, a bipartisan group of six senators released a plan to cut spending and raise tax revenues that aims to reduce the nation's deficits by at least $3.6 trillion over the next decade. We have many questions and deep reservations about the spending cuts in the plan, which could impose hardships on some of the most vulnerable groups. It is, however, a serious attempt to grapple with growing levels of debt in the years to come. It is remarkable that three conservative Republicans have signed on to a plan that dares to use the words ''tax'' and ''revenue'' alongside cuts in spending.
By the standards that prevail in Washington, that constitutes a breakthrough. It makes the House Republicans look even more ridiculous and isolated.
Reaching agreement on a sweeping plan like the one from the ''Gang of Six'' is virtually impossible before Aug. 2. But the White House, which approves of the plan's overall goals, made an important concession on Wednesday by agreeing to consider a brief increase in the debt ceiling if all parties showed some willingness to compromise on a longer-term plan structured like that of the Gang of Six. Up to now, President Obama has firmly and properly rejected brief increases in the ceiling, aware that each debate impoverishes the nation's economic credibility.
That puts the onus squarely back on the House, the chamber that invented this crisis. Although Speaker John Boehner recently showed willingness to consider a deficit-reduction plan along the lines of the Senate gang's, his momentary stab at reasonableness was quickly shot down by the ultraorthodox tax haters in his caucus. In their fanatical drive to cut spending below all rational levels, House Republicans have overtly courted default by passing a bill on Tuesday requiring that a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution be sent to the states before the debt limit can go up. The bill has no chance of passage in the Senate and was designed solely to make House members appear resolute to Tea Party loyalists who are not paying close attention to reality.
The Gang of Six plan calls for at least $1 trillion in new tax revenues by eliminating and reducing tax breaks and deductions. For conservative senators like Saxby Chambliss, Lamar Alexander, Michael Crapo and Tom Coburn to accept this reality shows how willfully blind the House majority has really become.
The senators' willingness to compromise is commendable, but the agreement they have assembled is really more a collection of talking points than a budget plan, and contains some highly dubious provisions.
The tax sections are slippery, and their size depends on whether the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans are finally allowed to expire.
It proposes to eliminate the alternative minimum tax, which was designed to collect income from the wealthy that had been sheltered in deductions and loopholes. This tax should be changed. Because it has never been adjusted to current economic reality, it has come to ensnare the incomes of Americans who are much farther down the wealth ladder, while failing to capture many of the superrich. Fairness and sound policy would also dictate eliminating tax breaks for the very rich, like the preferential rate for capital gains. But the gang's plan says nothing specific about that.
The proposal protects some important programs for the poor, including food stamps and the earned income tax credit, but could make some significant cuts to entitlement programs, education and environmental protections. Its details are so thin that it is impossible to know where the most damaging cuts could come, and its call for an immediate $500 billion in cuts could have a devastating effect on the prospects for an economic recovery.
For all its flaws, the Gang of Six plan -- unlike the ideas floating in the House -- is at least a framework for further discussion. It is much more promising than the ''Plan B'' being cobbled together by Senate leaders to raise the debt ceiling in three increments while cutting at least $1 trillion in spending with no revenue increases.
It is hard to see how the extremist Republican caucus in the House could accept the Gang of Six plan. At the moment, at least 80 members have signed a letter objecting even to the ''Plan B'' proposal. But perhaps the growing prospect of a financial crash will focus a few minds. With a bit of extra time, and a good deal of extra sense, there is still a chance to avert disaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAUCUSES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLITICS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



747 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Amish, Quiet Presence in New York, Endure the Glare of Tragedy

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY and PETER APPLEBOME; Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
JASPER, N.Y. -- Horse-drawn buggies have become commonplace on the roadways winding through the lush hills in this town, evidence of the striking growth in the Amish population in upstate New York in recent years.
But on Wednesday, many of the buggies were sitting empty in the summer heat outside the home of an elder. The community was gathering to mourn the death of five Amish people who were killed in a traffic accident on Tuesday.
Bearded men in broad-brimmed hats spoke in low tones. Women sat silently on long benches, their white-bonneted heads bent, dabbing handkerchiefs to swollen eyes.
They did not want to speak to outsiders, but the non-Amish society around them was grieving, too. 
''Our prayers to our Amish,'' the sign at the local firehouse read, underscoring how much the Amish have become an integral part of the agricultural fabric of this region.
''When I heard it was people from our community, it tore my heart right out,'' said Robert Mattison, captain of the volunteer ambulance corps in Jasper, which is about 250 miles northwest of New York City.
Upstate New York has been weathering tough economic times and sharp population declines, but the unexpected influx of the Amish has provided a glimmer of hope. Their population in New York has doubled over the past decade, as they migrate from their longstanding population centers in Ohio and Pennsylvania in search of affordable farmland.
Amish farmers and craftsmen have quietly changed the landscape across western and upstate New York, reviving some farming towns and causing moderate conflicts in others, often over building and zoning requirements that are counter to austere Amish customs.
In 2000, the Amish population in New York was estimated at 35 church districts, or independent communities, with 4,725 residents. Now there are 96 districts with about 13,000 residents, according to the latest estimates by the Young Center for Anabaptist and Pietist Studies at Elizabethtown College in Pennsylvania.
Nationwide, the total Amish population is 261,150 in 28 states.
In Jasper, where the population was around 1,370 in 2009, the Amish and their non-Amish neighbors have become partners, each needing the other to survive.
When a busload of schoolchildren visited Jasper the other day, an Amish furniture maker gave them buggy rides and let them pet his horse. Amish and non-Amish children play together. Their parents have forged tentative friendships, sometimes hunting together, sharing self-deprecating jokes and attending funerals, residents say.
Rare is the townsperson who denies an Amish neighbor's request to use the telephone or get a car ride. The non-Amish recognize that the Amish have helped to keep this farming town alive: the Amish began arriving in the early 1980s, buying vacant land, fixing up decrepit houses and bringing much needed commerce to town.
Glen Bullock, whose family has owned a hardware shop here for three generations, estimated that 60 percent of his sales were to the Amish. He said that the Amish were not fully integrated with the rest of village, but that there were pleasant daily interactions. When his father died in 1986, he said, ''the Amish were the first at my door.''
''They're just regular folks,'' he added. ''Great folks.''
The accident on Tuesday occurred in Benton, about 50 miles away, when a car trying to pass a tractor on a curve sideswiped a van carrying 13 Amish farmers.
They and about 20 other Amish farmers, in separate vehicles, were on an educational excursion sponsored by Cornell University Cooperative Extension. They had planned to visit farms to learn about the use of high tunnels -- low-tech greenhouses with curved frames, covered by a plastic sheet.
Amish generally do not drive, but they do ride in vehicles.
Those killed in the crash were from Jasper, and the nearby Woodhull and Troupsburg areas. They were identified on Wednesday as Anna Mary Byler, 60; Melvin Hershberger, 42; Melvin Hostetler, 40; Elizabeth Mast, 46; and Sarah Miller, 47.
The driver of the car, Steven A. Eldridge, 42, of Penn Yan, N.Y., has been charged with criminally negligent homicide, driving while intoxicated and lesser offenses. The crash, in a no-passing zone, also hurt 10 other people, the police said.
New Amish communities in the United States are usually formed by groups breaking off from existing communities in search of land, said Karen M. Johnson-Weiner, author of a history, ''New York Amish.''
She said that as recently as 1949, there were no Amish settlements in the state. The first began in the Conewango Valley in western New York.
Donald B. Kraybill, professor of Amish studies at Elizabethtown College, said the Amish population in New York jumped by 31 percent in the last two years, to around 13,000. Regions like this one, part of Steuben County, south of Rochester near the Pennsylvania border, have proved attractive to families seeking ''rural isolation and good, cheap farmland,'' he said.
In moments like these, Dr. Kraybill said, victims' families can expect an outpouring of support -- emotional and logistical -- from Amish neighbors.
''In Steuben County, all the nearby families and relatives will come in, provide food, take over the chores, take care of the children, set up arrangements for the funerals,'' Dr. Kraybill said. ''These families will receive hundreds of cards and letters from other Amish, many of whom they don't know.''
On Wednesday, they were also receiving support from non-Amish neighbors, who hauled bags of ice and food to the homes of the grieving, and drove long distances to bring far-flung Amish into town.
Gary Wright, a horse-farm owner from Caro, Mich., drove 11 hours to bring six Amish men and women to the hilltop home of the elder, a cabinetmaker named Melvin Hershberger Sr., whose son, Melvin Jr., died in the crash. Mr. Wright said he had befriended one of the Amish men he drove, when, about five years ago, his barn burned down. The man, Mr. Wright recalled, showed up at his door, saying, ''I'd like to help you build your barn.''
In Jasper, townspeople formed a protective line between the press-averse Amish and members of the news media. One non-Amish woman spent much of Wednesday shooing reporters away from the Hershberger home.
''We don't want any more reporters,'' an Amish man said. ''If you are sorry, you will leave us alone.''
Tonya Tyler, from Cameron Mills, N.Y. -- home to Elizabeth Mast -- said she looked up to Ms. Mast, a mother of many children whose kitchen produced ''the best lemon meringue pie you've ever tasted.''
Ms. Mast's husband, John, who was injured in the crash, often came to the Tyler home to use the phone, though not without an offering of bread. The Masts even worked on their neighbors' deck, free, Ms. Tyler said.
''They'll give you anything,'' she said. ''They're just caring, giving, forgiving people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Amish in Jasper, N.Y., mourning five church members who died in a crash on Tuesday. (A1)
 Corey Brewer, 26, creating a message on Wednesday for his Amish neighbors in Jasper, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUY SOLIMANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HORSES (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); ZONING (71%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (52%); VOLUNTEERS (52%); FURNITURE MFG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



748 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Why Can't the (Pick Your Party) Make a Stronger Case?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a Republican, I sometimes scream over the inability of my party's leaders to explain why they oppose tax increases within the current noisy debate over the deficit. 
''Beyond Battle Over Debt, a War Over Government'' (front page, July 15) explains very well the ideological stubbornness of both parties. However, the Republican team doing battle in Washington is failing to clarify the main objection to tax increases. Leaders often appear to be defending the principle put forth by Democrats that they are fighting to protect the wealthy.
Republicans should affirm that even if someone proposed a tax increase for only the wealthiest Democrats, the Republicans would oppose it on the grounds that raising taxes under current conditions would send the economy into a tailspin.
JOHN HILFERTY Moretown, Vt., July 15, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''How the Budget War Was Framed,'' by Nancy Folbre (Economix blog, The New York Times on the Web, July 18):
Many of us have felt ''framed'' by the dominance of right-wing orthodoxy -- cut the deficit without raising taxes -- when it is tax cuts and our failure to pay for two wars that got us here in the first place. It is still a mystery to me that President Obama and other Democratic leaders have not made as strong a case, at least until recently, for tax increases as the Republicans have made for tax cuts.
If the Democrats had made a stronger and more consistent case, perhaps the American public would now view a dollar of revenue increases for a dollar of spending cuts as an acceptable compromise and demand that Congress act on it.
PETER A. WADSWORTH Wainscott, N.Y., July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



749 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Amid Others' Weak Results, BlackRock's Earnings Rose 25% in Quarter

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
8:38 p.m. Updated
Financial firms have had a litany of reasons for their weaker-than-expected results this quarter: mortgage liabilities, concerns about the global economy and regulatory uncertainty.
Amid it all, BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, has found a way to profit from those concerns, helping drive its double-digit revenue and profit gains. On Wednesday the company reported that earnings rose 25 percent, to $578 million, spurred by strong showings in most of its divisions. Revenue increased 16 percent, to $2.35 billion. The firm surpassed expectations with earnings of $3 a share. Analysts had been predicting $2.88 a share.
BlackRock has a few things going for it that others firm do not, chiefly that it does not have any baggage from the financial crisis and it does not have a trading division that is susceptible to client flows and the ups and downs of the market. 
Goldman Sachs, worried about the global economy, moved to protect itself from potential volatility by taking a more conservative stance and hedging some trading activities. The move proved costly as the market did not act as Goldman had predicted.
As the world's largest manager of money for institutional and retail investors, BlackRock is seen as a more pure play on the market's direction. In the second quarter, BlackRock benefited from the rise in the stock market over the past year, which helped assets under management grow 16 percent to $3.7 trillion.
BlackRock also had an increase in revenue as clients turned to the firm to structure products like index funds to help them reduce, or in some cases, increase their exposure to various volatile markets. Index funds account for more than half of BlackRock's assets under management.
''Just this week, as a help to our clients, we had over 1,200 clients on a phone call, asking us questions related to the 'what if' there is a default in U.S. Treasuries, and what does that mean. And so we're seeing more and more clients looking to BlackRock to help them understand this global uncertainty,'' Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive, said in a call with analysts. He said there has been ''more hand-holding in investment strategies, and portfolio allocations.''
In a report titled ''Chugging Along,'' a Nomura analyst, Glenn Schorr, said Wednesday the results were ''decent given the market backdrop.''
Investments that mixed stocks, bonds and other assets under management were one of the star performers for BlackRock, growing 11 percent to $231.3 billion. New business in this category in the quarter totaled $20.7 billion. It grew in the quarter as pension funds and others turned to BlackRock to manage their assets.
Revenue from investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending came in at $2.1 billion, up 17 percent from the $1.8 billion posted in the second quarter of 2010. The firm said the increase was a result of growth in long-term assets under management, which reflected the benefit of both new business and market appreciation of assets over the last year.
BlackRock Solutions was generally flat in the quarter, reporting revenue of $116 million, up $2 million from the period a year earlier. The group, which flourished during the financial crisis, provides risk management advice to institutions and governments. It gained 10 new assignments in the second quarter, and its clients have included the Central Bank of Ireland and the Federal Reserve.
Co-founded by Mr. Fink, BlackRock went public in 1999 at $14 a share. The stock closed Wednesday at $184.50 a share, up 88 cents, or less than 1 percent.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INDEX FUNDS (69%); BONDS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%)

COMPANY: BLACKROCK INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: BLK (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: LAURENCE D FINK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



750 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: A Flat Day as Negotiations On Debt Ceiling Continue

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks closed nearly unchanged on Wednesday, a day after Wall Street's best rally since March, as uncertainty about negotiations over lifting the nation's debt ceiling overshadowed strong earnings from Apple. 
Apple hit another record high one day after it reported quarterly revenue that far exceeded expectations.
The stock jumped 2.67 percent, or $10.05, to $386.90, but, overall, the market was flat amid the unresolved debt ceiling crisis. The White House and Congress were negotiating a deal to raise the federal debt ceiling before a looming default on Aug. 2.
''The big elephant in the room is the debate about the debt ceiling, and as the clock ticks we all know that we are going to have a deal. It's just how soon,'' said Mohannad Aama, managing director at Beam Capital Management in New York.
''Until then, the market is going to be affected by the daily news that is coming out of earnings season.''
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 15.51 points, or 0.12 percent, to 12,571.91. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 0.89 points, or 0.07 percent, to 1,325.84. The Nasdaq composite index fell 12.29 points, or 0.43 percent, to 2,814.23.
Technology shares were lower, with Yahoo tumbling 7.61 percent, to $13.48, after reporting lackluster results, and Microsoft falling 1.74 percent, to $27.06, ahead of its quarterly report on Thursday.
Financials were the best performing sector, helped by a 4.43 percent rise in US Bancorp, to $26.14. The Midwestern regional bank said second-quarter net income rose by 57 percent.
Sovereign debt problems in Europe and the protracted political battle over increasing the debt ceiling in the United States have weighed on stocks. On Tuesday, there was progress toward a $3.75 billion budget deal, prompting a late rally, but a resolution remained elusive.
European Union leaders must find a convincing solution to Greece's debt crisis at a meeting Thursday or the global economy will pay the price, the head of the European Commission said in an unusually somber warning.
On the economic front in the United States, existing home sales fell unexpectedly to a seven-month low in June as cancellations of pending contracts surged, according to the National Association of Realtors.
Bond prices were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 14/32, to 101 21/32, and the yield rose to 2.93 percent from 2.88 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); DEBT CEILING (93%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); BONDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); DEBT NOTES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXISTING HOME SALES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%)

COMPANY: U S BANCORP (66%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (66%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (86%); GREECE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



751 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1980 words

HEADLINE: Child's Play, Grown-Up Cash

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
APART from the open bar by the swimming pool, the main attraction at parties held at the Houston home of John Schiller, an oil company executive, and his wife, Kristi, a Playboy model turned blogger, is the $50,000 playhouse the couple had custom-built two years ago for their daughter, Sinclair, now 4.
Cocktails in hand, guests duck to enter through the 4 1/2-foot door. Once inside, they could be forgiven for feeling as if they've fallen down the rabbit hole.
Built in the same Cape Cod style as the Schillers' expansive main house, the two-story 170-square-foot playhouse has vaulted ceilings that rise from five to eight feet tall, furnishings scaled down to two-thirds of normal size, hardwood floors and a faux fireplace with a fanciful mosaic mantel. 
The little stainless-steel sink in the kitchen has running water, and the matching stainless-steel mini fridge and freezer are stocked with juice boxes and Popsicles. Upstairs is a sitting area with a child-size sofa and chairs for watching DVDs on the 32-inch flat-screen TV. The windows, which all open, have screens to keep out mosquitoes, and there are begonias in the window boxes. And, of course, the playhouse is air-conditioned. This is Texas, after all.
''I think of it as bling for the yard,'' said Ms. Schiller, 40.
Some people might consider it ''obnoxious'' for a child to have a playhouse that costs more and has more amenities than some real houses, she conceded. But she sees it as an extension of the family home. ''My daughter loves it,'' she said. ''And it's certainly a conversation piece.''
Even in a troubled economy, it seems, some parents of means are willing to spend significant (if not eye-popping) sums on playhouses for their children that also function as a kind of backyard installation art.
There are a number of companies and independent craftsmen that make high-end playhouses, which can cost as much as $200,000, and come in a variety of styles, including replicas of real houses, like the Schillers', and more-fantastical creations like pirate ships, treetop hideouts and fairy tale cottages. And many of these manufacturers report that despite the economic downturn, they are as busy as ever.
Barbara Butler, an artist and playhouse builder in San Francisco, said her sales are up 40 percent this year, and she has twice as many future commissions lined up as she did this time last year. Not only that, but the average price of the structures she is being hired to build has more than doubled, from $26,000 to $54,000.
''Childhood is a precious and finite thing,'' Ms. Butler said. ''And a special playhouse is not the sort of thing you can put off until the economy gets better.''
Likewise, Glen Halliday, who has a playhouse business in Portland, Me., said he has seen profits increase 15 percent annually during the recession. ''We've been helped by the growing concern about childhood obesity and the need for active play,'' he said. Business has been so brisk, in fact, that his company, Kids Crooked House, recently expanded from a 1,200-square-foot barn into a 4,000-square-foot manufacturing building.
And for those in the playhouse trade, this is high season.
''We get a lot of calls this time of year, when the weather gets warm and people want to get their kids outside,'' said Patty Toner, vice president for sales for Lilliput Play Homes, in Finleyville, Pa., a company that sells playhouses on what might be considered the low end of the scale: between $4,000 and $50,000, depending on the style and degree of customization. Best sellers include a two-story Colonial-style house with a balcony and colonnaded porch, and a miniature medieval castle with turrets and secret passages.
Such architecturally sophisticated playhouses are usually custom-built on site to parents' specifications, or prefabricated and shipped in parts for assembly by parents or the handymen they hire after spending several frustrating hours trying to do it themselves.
Heather Hach Hearne, a screenwriter in Los Angeles, said that she and her husband, Jason, a director of animated films, had a handyman put together the playhouse they bought last year from Kids Crooked House, which makes whimsically wonky structures that resemble buildings in cartoons. The 6-by-9-foot purple house they ordered cost about $2,450.
''I didn't want something revoltingly expensive, but I didn't want anything pathetic, either,'' said Ms. Hearne, 40, who bought the playhouse for her 4-year-old daughter, Harper, and 1-year-old son, Drake.
She liked that it was intentionally funky and off-kilter. ''The playhouse was going to be in the backyard and part of the landscape,'' she said. ''I wanted something a little different, that wasn't going to be a total eyesore.''
To furnish it, Ms. Hearne bought a little table and chairs, along with a purple chandelier, and had the handyman wire the playhouse for electricity, drawing power from the garage. She also had him lay 99-cent faux stone tiles on the floor. ''I was going for the stone-castle floor look,'' she explained.
''My daughter loves to go in the playhouse and draw,'' she said. ''My son, at this point, thinks it's fun to just crawl in and out.''
Dan Burnham, who retired as chairman and chief executive officer of Raytheon, the defense systems manufacturer, in 2003, wanted something elaborate for the 187-acre retreat he and his wife, Meg, have in the Santa Ynez Mountains outside Santa Barbara, Calif. So he hired Ms. Butler in San Francisco to create a site-specific structure.
''I wanted another reason for the grandkids to come over,'' said Mr. Burnham, 64. ''Also, I wanted to be able to go up there on Sunday morning and read The New York Times Magazine.''
The multilevel house Ms. Butler built for him in 2007 incorporates three trees into its complex design, which includes a trap door, a swinging extension bridge and winding stairs. It also has a gabled roof made of corrugated tin, an interior with hand-carved rafters and beams, and windows made of shatter-resistant laminated glass. Connected to the treehouse with a zip line is a second, fortlike structure with carved finials and flagpoles, as well as a rock wall, a firefighters' pole and a slide.
''We've got chairs arrayed all around it, so we can watch the kids run, climb and scream,'' he said. ''It's adorable and worth every penny.'' (Nearly $248,000 for the two structures.)
He has yet to do any reading in either of them.
FOR those who prefer playhouses with a modern aesthetic, a company in Barcelona called Smart Playhouse offers designs that recall the work of famous architects. The Illinois model ($12,485, including interior lighting) looks like the sort of house a little Mies van der Rohe might have wanted in his backyard.
The company was founded last year by David Lamolla Kristiansen, a Danish architect who maintains that playhouses should be more than just a place for children to play -- they should also serve as ''a decorative piece,'' he said, for the parents' home.
But adding a decorative piece to one's home may require a building permit or adherence to building codes, depending on just how big and decorative it is, and where it is being constructed.
Alan Mowrer, the owner of La Petite Maison, in Denver, built the Schillers' playhouse in Houston, along with another extravagant playhouse at the couple's ranch in Millican, Tex. He builds about 12 playhouses a year for clients around the country, he said, and charges from $9,000 to $75,000 (not including travel expenses).
''In Los Angeles, anything over 8-by-8 needs a foundation,'' Mr. Mowrer said. ''But if you build somewhere like the middle of Missouri, you can do almost anything you want.''
There are also neighborhood covenants to consider. But typically anything hidden in the backyard will not provoke the ire of the local homeowners' association, said Dean Dwyer, founder and creative director of ArchitectureKids in Tempe, Ariz. Mr. Dwyer has installed playhouses that look like pirate ships, windmills and castles at the homes of several film and sports stars who asked not to be named to protect their children's privacy.
''Only a certain kind of clientele can afford what we offer,'' he said. And few have backyards big enough to hold it. Red Beard's Revenge, for example, is a $52,000 playhouse in the shape of a 12-foot-tall, 18-foot-long pirate ship, complete with a crow's nest, upper and lower decks made of mahogany and leather benches in the captain's quarters that double as beds.
But those who don't have that kind of space (or disposable income) should not despair. Parents don't have to spend a fortune to encourage the kind of unstructured, imaginative play that helps develop higher-level problem-solving skills and emotional acuity in children, child psychologists say.
Steven Tuber, a psychology professor at City University of New York and the author of ''Attachment, Play, and Authenticity,'' notes that while ''over-the-top playhouses may do something for the parent's sense of grandeur,'' they ''certainly are irrelevant to the child's needs and desires for a play space.''
''They are unlikely to get in the way of the child's imagination,'' he added, but ''they do nothing to further it.''
Earlier this year, Katie Lagana, 37, and Matthew Aubin, 36, a couple in Milford, Conn., bought a bright yellow playhouse for their 6-year-old daughter, Penny, and 5-year-old son, Oliver. They spent $3,400 on it -- nothing close to cost of the pirate ship, but still a considerable sum for Ms. Lagana, who works as a marketing director for a publishing company, and Mr. Aubin, a stay-at-home father.
But the fun the children have in it, Ms. Lagana said, is priceless.
''It's the center of activity and the main attraction for play dates,'' she said. ''There'll be pretend pies made out of sand on the windowsill one day, and then it's a vet clinic with all the stuffed animals out there the next.''
Like many parents who buy playhouses, whatever the price point, Ms. Lagana said her goal was to inspire her children to play outside and to foster their creativity. ''Playing a video game, kids do what it tells them to do,'' she said. ''A playhouse is all about using their imagination.''
Playhouse Proud
PLAYHOUSES come in various styles, from medieval to modern. The following builders sell houses for delivery in anywhere from a couple of weeks to a couple of years, depending on the amount of custom work and the complexity.
ArchitectureKids, a company based in Tempe, Ariz., sells fanciful Disney-esque playhouses shaped like windmills, pirate ships and castles for $50,000 to $150,000; (480) 967-3409 or architecturekids.com.
Lilliput Play Homes, in Finleyville, Pa., specializes in cottage-, Colonial- and Victorian-style houses, for $4,000 to $50,000; (724) 348-7071 or lilliputplayhomes.com.
Kids Crooked House, a company in Portland, Me., makes off-kilter playhouses that a young Salvador Dali might have liked, for $1,500 to $8,000; (888) 447-5446 or kidscrookedhouse.com.
PoshTots, an online retailer, carries high-end playhouses from a variety of manufacturers, from $6,000 to $122,000; (866) 767-4868 or poshtots.com.
SmartPlayhouse, a Spanish company, sells modernist playhouses, for $3,100 to $13,000; 34-935-805-000 or smartplayhouse.com/en.
Modern Cabana, based in San Francisco, specializes in modern, environmentally friendly playhouses. The Kiddo Cabana ($2,200), for example, has a green roof where children can grow grass, succulents or plant a vegetable patch; (415) 206-9330 or moderncabana.com.
La Petite Maison, in Denver, creates playhouses in any style parents and children can dream up, for $9,000 to $75,000; (877) 404-1184 or lapetitemaison.com.
Barbara Butler Artist + Builder Inc., in San Francisco, custom-makes sustainable redwood structures with ladders, bridges, chutes and fire poles to encourage active play; prices range from $4,000 to $200,000; (415) 864-6840 or barbarabutler.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BACKYARD BAUBLES: Dan Burnham spent nearly $248,000 on playhouses (''adorable and worth every penny'') near Santa Barbara, Calif., above
Harper Hearne, left, at her Los Angeles playhouse
Kristi and Sinclair Schiller's Houston Cape Cod, same style as the main house.(D1)
SMALL FRY: Sinclair Schiller in her kitchen in Houston, above, and at teatime with her mother, Kristi, left. Kate and Barrett Burnham at play near Santa Barbara, Calif., below left.
NO PLACE LIKE HOME: Clockwise from top left: La Petite Maison houses are $9,000 to $75,000
inside a house from La Petite Maison
Lilliput Play Homes sells a Colonial
an ArchitectureKids pirate ship creation
Lilliput goes medieval. (PHOTOGRAPHS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES BY KEVIN SCANLON
 MEGAN THOMPSON LOVOI)(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); FAMILY (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (61%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (74%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (74%) TEXAS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



752 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Agrees to Pay $85 Million Over Loans

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Wells Fargo & Company has agreed to pay $85 million to settle civil charges that it falsified loan documents and pushed borrowers toward subprime mortgages with higher interest rates during the housing boom. 
The fine was imposed by the Federal Reserve and is the largest in a consumer-enforcement case ever, the central bank said on Wednesday.
Wells Fargo, the nation's largest mortgage lender, neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing as part of the settlement. The bank agreed to compensate borrowers who were steered into higher-priced loans or whose income was exaggerated.
The Fed said that from 2004 until 2008 a unit of Wells Fargo inflated borrowers' incomes on loan documents to qualify for mortgages they otherwise couldn't afford. Sales personnel also pushed borrowers toward higher-interest subprime loans, even though they were eligible for lower-interest mortgages, the central bank said.
Between 3,700 and 10,000 people could be compensated under the settlement, the Fed said. The payments will most likely range from $1,000 to $20,000.
The loans were issued by Wells Fargo Financial, a subsidiary of the bank that closed in 2010, the bank said.
''The alleged actions committed by a relatively small group of team members are not what we stand for at Wells Fargo,'' John Stumpf, the chief executive, said in a statement. The bank has already paid restitution to about 600 customers, it said.
The alleged actions by Wells Fargo are similar to accusations made against many subprime lenders during the housing boom. Hundreds of those smaller lenders went bankrupt when the housing market collapsed in 2007.
Millions of homeowners who took on subprime loans during the housing boom have since lost their homes to foreclosure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (96%); WELLS FARGO FINANCIAL INC (58%); WELLS FARGO CANADA CORP (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN G STUMPF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



753 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Tax Bills Imperil Slavery Museum

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
FREDERICKSBURG, Va. -- It's been 10 years since L. Douglas Wilder, the nation's first elected black governor, unveiled a plan to build the United States National Slavery Museum on 38 acres here. It was to be the only institution of its kind, housed in a soaring glass-and-travertine building and illuminated at night so that cars passing on I-95 could see the full-scale replica of a slave ship in its atrium.
Today the land remains vacant and is drowning in tax bills.
The museum owes more than $215,000 in property taxes and fees, dating back to 2008. This month the city announced it is putting the land on the auction block. 
''It just seems that nothing has been happening, and nobody's answering any of the mail we send to them, so we're just doing the same thing to them that we'd do to anybody else,'' said G. M. Haney, the city's treasurer.
The museum's director has departed, its board no longer meets, its offices are abandoned, and the museum's state license to solicit donations has lapsed. Some people who donated artifacts to the museum years ago have demanded them back.
Mr. Wilder's only response has been a defiant posting on his Web site in February that said the museum is not dead and that all the artifacts are ''being held safely in storage.''
Since then he has not responded to inquiries about the museum and did not respond to messages left with his assistant this week. In the post on his Web site in February he described the museum as a casualty of the recession and said it would go forward as soon as the economy picked up. His optimism is not shared, however, by a museum board member, the Rev. Lawrence A. Davies, who said he has not heard from Mr. Wilder in more than a year.
''We tried on one or two occasions to get in touch but to no avail,'' he said. ''There doesn't seem to be much evidence for hope at this point.''
Under Mr. Wilder's plan an estimated two million visitors a year were expected at the museum. There was to be a library, a theater, classrooms, a garden featuring tobacco and cotton crops, and galleries featuring subjects like the Middle Passage, slave family life and the Civil War.
Mr. Wilder commissioned the architect C. C. Pei, a son of I. M. Pei, to design the museum. Mr. Pei's designs are still visible on his firm's Web site and on a faded and curled sign at the property that sits on a dead-end road, just beyond a stretch of chain stores. The only development at the site is a small garden that Mr. Wilder opened in 2007 as a kind of marker for the future. A stone sculpture of a person lifting two hands toward the sky still stands in the garden, which is now padlocked, amid overgrown weeds and a few flowers.
The museum's design called for a nearly 300,000-square-foot building; Mr. Wilder had estimated the construction cost at $100 million. But in its last tax filing, from 2007, the museum reported just $115,000 in assets, aside from the land.
The collapse of the ambitious plan has left a trail of anger and bewilderment.
Therbia Parker, 62, who gave Mr. Wilder part of his collection of slavery- and Jim Crow-era artifacts, called his handling of the situation ''a slap in the face of every African-American.''
''I get angry ever time I think about it,'' Mr. Parker said.
Mr. Parker said he has tried to get in touch with Mr. Wilder unsuccessfully for more than two years. He would like his materials back and has no idea where they are being held, he said.
He said the only response he received was from Mr. Wilder's secretary, who mailed him a copy of the letter Mr. Wilder had posted on his Web site, Wildervisions.com, asserting that the museum dream lives on.
Larry Sabato, the director of the University of Virginia Center for Politics, said that given Mr. Wilder's career, his behavior in relation to the museum has been a mystery.
While serving as governor of Virginia, Mr. Wilder briefly aspired to be president but dropped out before the 1992 primaries. From 2005 to 2009 he served as mayor of Richmond. Today, at 80, he remains an active political commentator who teaches at Virginia Commonwealth University and routinely fires off editorials, blog posts and tweets about topics of the day.
''Anyone who knows Wilder and who has listened to him about this understands that he cares about this,'' Mr. Sabato said of the museum plan. ''Why it's ended up in this way I just can't tell you, and I've never heard anybody explain it.''
Mr. Wilder had not been alone in thinking big about the project. Of the $4 million the museum has raised since 2001, according to tax records, $1.2 million came in a donation from his friend Bill Cosby. In 2004, speaking at a gala here for the museum, Mr. Cosby said the museum would allow African-American children ''to see the strength of their ancestors.''
Through a spokesman Mr. Cosby declined to be interviewed this week about the museum, referring questions to Mr. Wilder.
A version of the museum Mr. Wilder first envisioned in 1992 after a trip to Africa is now being built on the Mall in Washington: the National Museum of African American History and Culture. Under the umbrella of the federally financed Smithsonian Institution, the $500 million project is receiving half of its funding from Congress and will have a section devoted to an exploration of slavery.
By the time Mr. Wilder got the land for his museum, in 2001, plans for the Smithsonian project in Washington were already being actively discussed, which may have diminished potential donors' sense of the need for a similar museum only an hour south.
Mr. Haney, the city treasurer, said that the museum has 30 days to pay its tax bill. After that, he said, the process of selling the property could take six to eight months.
Mr. Haney said the city would probably go to court to lift a restriction that was placed on the property at the time of transfer to the museum. The former owner, a developer named Larry D. Silver, stipulated that it could only be used for a charitable or educational purpose.
Stephen Farnsworth, an associate professor of communication at George Mason University and a former resident of Fredericksburg, said he thought Mr. Wilder would have had an easier time raising money for a museum in Richmond or Washington. ''The idea of the project was well received in Fredericksburg,'' he said, but ''a national museum like this requires much more than the support of a community to get off the ground.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The overgrown garden on the 38 acres in Fredericksburg, Va., where a museum was to be built. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A rendering of the proposed United States National Slavery Museum by the architects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PEI PARTNERSHIPS ARCHITECTS)
Left, L. Douglas Wilder, a former governor of Virginia. Right, Therbia Parker, who gave part of his collection of slavery- and Jim Crow-era artifacts for display at the proposed museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); SLAVERY (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (72%); COTTON FARMING (72%); WEB SITES (70%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); FAMILY (62%); LICENSES & PERMITS (51%); RETAILERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



754 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Fall 0.8%; 3rd Drop in 3 Months

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Fewer people bought previously owned homes in June, a private group said Wednesday, putting this year on pace to be the worst for sales since the housing bust. 
The National Association of Realtors said home sales fell 0.8 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.77 million homes. That is far below the six million homes a year rate that economists say represents a healthy housing market.
June's decrease was the third consecutive monthly decline in home sales.
Through the first six months of 2011, the number of sales is behind last year's 4.91 million homes sold -- the weakest sales in 13 years. Sales have fallen in four of the last five years.
The association said a record number of people who signed contracts canceled their deals last month. And first-time buyers are becoming a smaller share of the market.
Sales of single-family homes held steady in June, while sales of condominiums declined 7 percent.
Bigger down payments, tougher lending rules, high debt and a shortage of desirable starter homes are deterring many would-be buyers. Even some people with good credit and enough money for a down payment are delaying because they are worried that prices will keep falling.
''It all goes back to uncertainty about the future and hiring,'' said Jennifer Lee, senior economist at BMO Capital Markets.
First-time buyers made up just 31 percent of sales in June, when normally they make up about half of all home sales. First-time buyers are valuable in the housing market because they tend to keep their homes for years and because their purchases allow sellers to move to more expensive homes.
About 16 percent of home deals were canceled last month, four times the number in May and the highest level since such record keeping began more than a year ago. A sale is not final until a mortgage is closed.
The median sales price rose nearly 9 percent in June from May, to $184,300. The increase was mainly a result of seasonal factors that led to a big increase in prices in the Northeast and West.
Sales were uneven across the country. In May, sales rose 0.5 percent in the West and 1 percent in the Midwest and fell 1.7 percent in the South and 5.2 percent in the Northeast.
The supply of unsold homes rose slightly in June to 3.77 million. At last month's sales pace, it would take 9.5 months to sell those homes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



755 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Cool, Fashionably

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
TRENDS come and go, but the dress persists, secure in its status as a metaphor. Irwin Shaw captured its wispy allure in his classic short story, ''The Girls in Their Summer Dresses,'' using the dress to conjure a mood of diffuse urban longing.
Bruce Springsteen struck a similar chord, crooning ''in the cool of the evening light/The girls in their summer clothes/Pass me by,'' as did the Airborne Toxic Event, an indie rock band, whose variation on the wistful summer-dresses theme still resonates in some circles as a catchy cellphone ring tone.
The list goes on. But to get to the heart of dresses' appeal, talk to the women who wear them: those scores of fans, young or not so young, who have made them the backbone of their summer wardrobes. 
In the punishing heat of a July afternoon, dresses are ''the ultimate in comfort,'' said Whitney May, who is an assistant in the architecture and design department at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. On a recent Sunday, she breezed among the stalls at a flea market in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in a roomy pale green tunic-length style. ''Dresses are almost always looser and less constricting than pants or a skirt,'' said Ms. May, 27. ''When it's this hot, I don't wear anything else.''
Selma Akkari, 19, a student, favors dresses in the summertime because ''they're colorful, light and airy,'' she said, adding, ''They make girls look happy and confident about their bodies.''
Ms. May and Ms. Akkari were but two in a random selection of women interviewed this month in the city who, when temperatures soar, reach for a dress, fashion's little coping mechanism against stale air, slack sprits and the much-too-taxing question of what to wear.
On soupy days the dress is ''such a practical outfit,'' said Bettina May (no relation to Whitney), who accessorized the paisley frock she wore on a recent excursion to Rockaway Beach, Queens, with harlequin-shaped shades and a parasol. Her outfit was practical, said Ms. May, 32. ''You don't have to think about coordinating tops and bottoms.''
But to dwell on pure function is to miss what, to some minds, makes the dress particularly current. The designer Nicole Miller said that as little as four or five years ago, ''dresses were kind of unhip,'' which of course, thanks to the inevitable swing of the fashion pendulum, ''is what makes them cool now.'' Ms. Miller suggested that the return of the dress coincided roughly with the rising popularity of vintage looks: the buoyant dirndls, halter styles, prairie dresses and trapeze shapes that, she said, ''are still influencing girls on the street, especially the younger ones.'' Young women's enthusiasm has helped boost sales of scoop-back sundresses, shifts and shirtwaists as well as pavement-grazing maxis, looks that touch down with the arrival of Memorial Day. Dresses' popularity tends to peak in summer, said Marshal Cohen, senior analyst with the NPD Group, which tracks apparel sales. According to the NPD, retailers recorded just over $6 billion in dress sales April and May, an increase of 3.2 percent over the same period last year. Dresses do particularly well in a recessionary climate, Mr. Cohen said, when consumers embrace them ''as the most economical way to create a new outfit.''
The dress's brisk retail performance is an indication that ''we're no longer willing to suffer for fashion,'' said Jennifer Uglialoro, the fashion director of H & M in New York. Dresses, she said, owe at least some of their formidable staying power to their forgiving shapes, unfussy construction and obviation of caked-on accessories or cumbersome layering.
While H & M declined to provide sales figures, maxi looks, above-the-knee frocks, elongated tanks and vibrant patterned styles (stripes, dots, outsize flowers and bold swaths of color ) were best sellers, Ms. Uglialoro said. ''Those things are such an important part of our summer collection that this year we've increased our order.''
Dresses inspire confidence, retailers said. ''They always make you look pulled together,'' said Colleen Sherin, the fashion director of Saks Fifth Avenue. ''That's what makes them such a success.'' Production advances, she added, have made summer cottons and silk lighter and more wearable.
And more romantically evocative. Younger women, who once adopted the dress as a cheeky send up of mid-20th century feminine stereotypes, are now dispensing with such ironies and acknowledging the frankly sensual appeal of the dress. Elizabeth Wurtzel seemed to touch on its attractions more than a decade ago when she lamented in ''Bitch: In Praise of Difficult Women'' that ''our entire culture has become dowdy.''
The episodic interest in red-hot lipstick, stiletto heels and silky lingerie, Ms. Wurtzel said, ''seems an attempt to redress this loss of style and sensuality. We as a people miss playing dress-up.''
That notion wasn't lost on Mary Alice Stephenson, a fashion consultant in New York. ''Wearing a dress is the fastest way to assert your feminine self,'' she said.That idea takes hold early in some women's lives. Sarah Girner, a photographer, 33, discovered dresses at 16, when she said that she was ''at the threshold of becoming a woman.'' She said she has been captivated ever since by the ''grace and elegance inherent a dress, the way it flows and moves.'' Her fascination, she said, has only intensified with time.
''So much is tied up in a dress, '' Bettina May said, ''a lot of emotions and politics.'' But the real attraction ''is how confident and on top of my game I feel wearing a dress,'' she said. ''It's so much a part of the whole ritual of becoming a woman, like putting on lipstick and all your little fixings.'' Its transformative power first struck her as a toddler. ''I used to throw tantrums when my mom tried to put me in pants and a shirt,'' she said.
Her recollections chime with the results of a behavioral study, ''Pink Frilly Dresses and Early Gender Identity,'' published last year by Princeton University. According to the authors, Diane N. Ruble, Leah E. Lurye and Kristina M. Zosuls, researchers in developmental psychology, ''A large proportion of girls pass through a stage when they virtually refuse to go out of the house unless they a wearing a dress.'' In very young children, they concluded, ''pink frilly dresses are especially salient and concrete feature of 'girl-ness.' '' It's not surprising, then, to learn that some women's favorite dresses have something demure and old-fashioned about them, if not downright chaste. Ideally, Whitney May said: ''A dress should have a bit of a childlike quality to it. It should be elegant and sophisticated but not too revealing.''
Something, perhaps, like the polka-dot navy frock worn by Emily Schwartz, a graphic designer in Brooklyn, scooped out at the back, but primly reminiscent of a pinafore. Or Ms. May's own dress, embellished with innocent-looking scallop embroidery.
''In an outfit like this, I never feel too fashionably aggressive, like I'm dressing up or trying to hard,'' Ms. May said. ''When I wear it, I feel youthful, ready to move, ready to laugh, ready to be spontaneous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POST CARD: From left, Bettina May, Hazel Honeysuckle and Annick Rosenfield, all of Brooklyn, in eye-catching colors on a hot day at Rockaway Beach in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES(E1)
 ON LOCATION: Clockwise from far left, Sylvie Zurstrassen, Lisa Buxton, Jennifer Damm, Sarah Girner and Emily Schwartz, all at a flea market in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



756 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; DOMESTIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Back Home, Via France

BYLINE: By BOBBIE ANN MASON. 
Bobbie Ann Mason is the author, most recently, of ''The Girl in the Blue Beret'' (Random House).

 BODY:
FOR decades I knew where home was -- the farm in Kentucky where I was raised. I was free to roam the world as long as my parents were still there. But now all that is gone, and in place of the family farm I have been going to France.
France might seem an unlikely place for me to look for an alternate home, since I'm not an epicure, nor do I have a tourist's agenda or a Peter Mayle frame of mind. I'm more interested in everyday life -- I like to photograph clotheslines for a friend who collects such pictures -- than I am in finding a choice wine or the ultimate turbot.
I was drawn to France because my husband's father, Barney Rawlings, was shot down in a B-17 bomber during World War II, and he made his way through France to safety with the help of the French Resistance. He died in 2004, and I had waited too late to ask questions. 
But in 2008 I went to France, alone -- my husband couldn't leave his work -- intent on finding the people who had helped his father. Many French families had willingly sheltered downed airmen, sharing their own meager wartime rations and scrounging to find boots and pants that would fit outsize Americans. Sometimes, the airmen slept in a wall recess behind an armoire.
I found two of the people I was looking for, Jean and Marie-Therese Hallade, in a small town north of Paris. Jean was 15 when my father-in-law was hidden in a nearby house, and he photographed Barney in a beret for a fake ID. The Hallades graciously invited me to a Sunday meal with their large family. It seemed unusual to be invited to a Sunday lunch, for that is family day in France, as I understand it, just as it was in my Kentucky past. But they made an exception for me. I was amazed that their gratitude for the American bombers in the war extended to this day -- and to me, only a tangential part of the story.
The meal was at their daughter's house, where two birthdays were being celebrated within their large extended family. They spoke little English, and my French was elementary, but we carried on. The daughter, Martine, was married to a doctor; their house was modest by American standards for doctor abodes, and it was filled with art objects devoted to cats. They also had a ratty real cat called Batman.
One of the young men wore American farmer overalls. The grandchildren were there -- polite and very discreet with their laptops and ear buds, but eager to learn American slang. (I learned that the French for ''cool'' is ''cool.'') I also got a brief, tantalizing glimpse of a modern French kitchen -- colorful tile, utensils hanging on the walls, a complex of ovens, a bevy of busy women fussing over steaming cauldrons.The meal began with Champagne, then individual ramekins of foie gras. I may have committed a foie-gras faux pas by scraping aside the half-inch of fat frosting that everyone else was savoring. The feast of ham and vegetables seemed to compensate for the scarcity during the war, and Jean's homemade cider and Marie-Therese's raspberry tarts were divine.
In a Paris suburb I visited Michele Agniel, who had also helped Barney and other Allied aviators as a teenager, escorting them on the Metro and through the streets of occupied Paris. Michele, 81 at the time of my visit and wearing a bright red skirt and pearls, welcomed me effusively, with a three-cheek kiss. Her apartment was sunny and cheerful, filled with elegant furniture that had probably been in her family for generations, including an old polished armoire for her dishes. An afghan of large crocheted squares on her green velvet sofa was curiously familiar -- a lot of those in Kentucky.
Michele was lively, energetic, full of good humor, but reluctant to talk about her worst memories of the war. (''One day I will write about it,'' she said.) She spoke fair if rusty English, and she had a dictionary handy to ease conversation with her guest.
Then I found myself at Michele's table, for another family meal on a Sunday. More Champagne. Michele was dressed up in a chic blue suit. Her son, Francis, was there with his Venezuelan wife, and her brother, Jean-Marie, came with his wife and daughter. I talked with Jean-Marie about music. He had seen the farewell concert of the Golden Gate Quartet, an African-American gospel group long based in Paris, and he was thrilled by their tap-dancing.
Michele presented a large bowl of chicken salad. A light lunch -- how sensible, I thought, remembering the Hallades' groaning board. She urged me to take more, and I did. But then, from her tiny kitchen, came the pot roast and the huge bowls of vegetables. Then the salad, the cheeses. There was more, I'm sure, but I remember best the chocolate mousse with creme anglaise.
Francis' cellphone rang, and he retreated to the flower-filled balcony with his pipe. His ring tone was the line ''Parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme'' from Simon and Garfunkel's ''Scarborough Fair.''
I returned to Paris several times, and Michele and I became friends. Our visits became increasingly informal. From her tiny bedroom -- also her office, library and TV room -- she hauled out her scrapbooks from wartime. We sat by the front window, and she showed me ration books, newspaper clippings and an aviator's silk map of Europe. Photos and clippings spilled from their plastic pockets onto the Oriental rug.
During the war, the Germans had invaded France, violated the homes of the French. But people like Michele opened their homes to their liberators. And Michele had opened her home to me. I asked my French teacher how to say ''My house is your house'' in French, and she said the concept did not exist. Homes are private. But Michele and others disproved that, certainly.
Last summer, Michele invited me to her hydrangea-shrouded stone cottage in Normandy. Framed by high hollyhocks, the cottage is simple and cozy, with a nautical motif -- sailor knots and seascapes -- in the main room.
Her granddaughter, Elise, a student of medieval history, was there for the summer, working as a guide for the Lucerne Abbey. Michele fed us home-cooked meals, effortlessly transforming some cherries into clafoutis or a guinea hen into a splendid noontime dish worthy of a few Michelin stars. We ate slabs of smoked salmon with cucumbers in cream. We ate French breakfast radishes with butter. She thought nothing of turning out a perfect tarte Tatin.
''Very simple,'' she said with dismissive good humor. She was economical, too -- the decanter of red wine she served came from a box.
Michele, content in jeans and simple shirts, makes no fuss about her appearance. She rushes about with high energy and enthusiasm, sometimes burning herself on the stove (and emitting a familiar French curse when she does). My mother was like that. She habitually swooped into the kitchen and accomplished the same kind of magic, variations on the same kinds of food -- although deep-fried catfish with hush puppies may not translate.
I thought about the days when French families hid the Allied airmen. What humiliation it must have been for these hospitable people, like Michele's mother, to have to make do with a tiny bit of butter, poor cuts of meat, those infernal rutabagas. No bread.
In knowing Michele, and being comfortable in her home, I felt the past become very real, but the present felt more real, too -- the extraordinary within the ordinary. At her Normandy cottage, I slept in a guest room with French doors (what else!) that opened onto the garden. One night the doors blew open, and an animal jumped onto my bed. It was a black cat. For a moment I thought I was at home, and then I realized I was quite at home. What could be more familiar than a cat on the bed?
''That cat lives nearby, but it always wants to be in that room,'' Michele said the next morning, laughing.
I had come from Kentucky to a foreign country and found a kinship and warmth that I had at my old home that is no longer there.
One July 14, Bastille Day, I was alone in Paris. I joined the crowd of half a million people, or perhaps a million, at the Eiffel Tower for a grand display of fireworks over the Seine. I stood there, alone but at home, serene and happy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIME TRAVEL: Top, the cottage in Normandy of Michele Agniel, who helped rescue Barney Rawlings, the author's aviator father-in-law, during World War II. Above, Ms. Agniel, left, with the author. Inset, Barney Rawlings disguised as a French workman in a 1944 photo taken for a false ID card. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANELLE MASON
 JEAN HALLADE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (68%); CATS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (50%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



757 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Wambach, a Runner-Up, Returns to a Champion's Welcome

BYLINE: By JIM MEMMOTT

 BODY:
ROCHESTER -- Abby Wambach came home on Wednesday to a hero's welcome.
''You would have thought we won,'' Wambach said, referring to the United States' penalty-kick shootout loss to Japan in the Women's World Cup final Sunday in Germany.
Wambach was here with her team, the Florida-based magicJack of Women's Professional Soccer, for a regularly scheduled game against the Western New York Flash. The Flash won, 3-1, before a sellout crowd of 15, 404, a record for the three-year-old league. 
''Everyone wants to see Abby,'' said Kelly Miller, 15, a soccer player from Rush, a Rochester suburb, who was wearing a tie-dyed ''I Abby'' shirt. Sadly for the fans, Wambach did not play because of an Achilles' injury, but she spoke to the crowd at halftime.
The rock-star adulation for Wambach, a Rochester-area native, was no surprise. Her four goals in the World Cup, including a stunning last-minute header in the quarterfinals against Brazil, drew international attention.
Beyond that, the Rochester area is a soccer hotbed, a place where people appreciate the skills it takes to play the way Wambach does.
Like many once-industrial northeastern cities, Rochester has struggled with job loss and population loss. Good news of any kind is welcome here.
Wambach, 31, grew up in Pittsford, a Rochester suburb, the youngest of seven children. She starred in youth leagues and at Our Lady of Mercy High School before going to the University of Florida. Since then, her international achievements have made her one of the most identifiable female players in the world.
''To see someone from our community go out and become a superstar, it makes Rochester proud,'' said Mary Hamm, 55, a retired physical-education teacher from the Rochester suburb of Greece. Hamm was holding up a poster at an exuberant afternoon rally that drew more than 1,500 to a suburban mall to greet Wambach and three other national team players -- Ali Krieger, Alex Morgan and Megan Rapinoe.
''You have no idea how meaningful it is to me to show off this amazing city of Rochester to all my teammates,'' Wambach told a screaming crowd filled with girls in soccer jerseys, their parents, grandparents and brothers.
The rally had the flavor of a family reunion, in part because Wambachs have lived in the Rochester area for decades, the family running a garden center. People may not know Abby Wambach, but more than likely they know one of her siblings, or her parents, Judy and Peter, or her many nieces and nephews.
''Instead of Kevin Bacon's six degrees of separation, it's the Wambach connection,'' said her sister Laura, an elementary school teacher.
In 2004, after leading the United States to an Olympic gold medal, Abby Wambach returned here for a game that drew 14,870. In May of this year, just over 8,000 fans were at Sahlen's Stadium -- a five-year-old facility used mainly for soccer -- when Wambach and the magicJack met the Flash, a Buffalo-based team that plays its home games here.
When Wambach is not the opponent, the Flash have not drawn well, even with the Brazilian Marta, the five-time world player of the year, on the roster. Morgan, who scored two important goals for the United States in the World Cup, also plays for the Flash, as does the Canadian standout Christine Sinclair, who scored two goals Wednesday.
Soccer teams' fortunes have ebbed and flowed in Rochester. The Lancers, a men's team in the former North American Soccer League, drew 20,000 to a game with the Cosmos in 1977. The Rochester Rhinos, a men's team now playing in soccer's third tier, started well in 1996 but have struggled to draw fans lately.
There are currently 70,000 soccer-league players ages 5 to 19 in western New York; the numbers have remained consistent in the last few years, said Amy Gush, the executive director of the New York State West Youth Soccer Association.
More than half of the youth players are female, and Gush hopes that the attention paid to Wambach will motivate even more young girls to take up the sport. ''She makes it exciting to be a soccer player, to dream the dream,'' Gush said.
Megan Hanushek, co-owner with her brother, Eric, of the Soccer Shack, a sports equipment and apparel store in Brighton, a Rochester suburb, said she thought that soccer teams in communities like Rochester had to reach out to young players.
''They need to be out there kicking around with the kids,'' said Hanushek, who played soccer at the University of Rochester and then in Germany.
The Flash have come to Rochester at a time of economic challenge. Kodak Tower, the corporate headquarters of Eastman Kodak, stands near Sahlen's Stadium, but the company that once dominated all facets of the city is a shadow of its former self.
In 1980, when Wambach was born, more than 60,000 area residents worked for Kodak. At the end of last year, the company employed 7,100 people here. In 1950, Rochester had just over 332,000 residents; now it has 211,000.
Unemployment figures locally are better than they are nationally, however, some of the slack having been taken up by the University of Rochester and technology-based start-ups.
But the economy was not front and center as Rochester basked in the surprising glow of a World Cup that slipped away.
''Sometimes winning isn't everything,'' Wambach said. ''We've come home to the most amazing reception.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Abby Wambach, Alex Morgan and Megan Rapinoe at an event in a mall near Rochester. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN DOWD/DEMOCRAT & CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); ATHLETES (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); CHILDREN (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); YOUTH SPORTS (76%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (76%); SUBURBS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); FAMILY (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); GRANDPARENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



758 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Video Chat Start-Up Tests the Odds

BYLINE: By JESSICA BRUDER

 BODY:
This is the first in a series of quick profiles of start-up companies. The Small Business Administration has found that about half of new businesses survive five years. Will this be one of the survivors?
Business: Yowie, established in July 2010, is a Web service that connects performers and fans through live video chat. (A ''yowie'' is Australia's version of a yeti, a k a Bigfoot.)
Employees: Nine full time. 
Location: Santa Monica, Calif.
Founders: Jay Snider, 53, is the former president of the Philadelphia Flyers hockey team and the founder of SpectaGuard, a security company he created at age 22 and sold in 1998. To start Yowie, he teamed up with his son, Jamie Snider, 26, and two MySpace alumni, Frank Orozco and Carlos Montes.
Pitch: There are already lots of services for streaming entertainment in real time. Yowie wants to do them one better, letting audiences interact with their favorite artists in a setting that allows fans to watch live performances and queue up to chat with entertainers via Web cams.
''The idea of providing a platform for talent, a microphone, is in the blood,'' said Jay Snider, whose father founded the Philadelphia Flyers and who grew up working summer jobs at the arena where the Flyers and many performing acts played. ''It's in my genes.''
Traction: So far, Yowie has collaborated with heavy hitters like Disney, DreamWorks and Comedy Central to present a roster of guests including the comedians Amy Poehler and Reggie Watts, the rock band the Melvins and Dianna Agron of ''Glee.'' On April 13, Ashley Tisdale of ''High School Musical'' drew about 10,000 visitors - about 2,000 logged in at any one time - over the course of a 15-minute show, making it Yowie's largest event to date.
Revenue: Yowie has yet to develop a revenue stream but plans to charge its larger clients, most of whom embed Yowie's live video sessions on their own Web sites. ''We expect that line to be crossed later this month,'' Mr. Snider said, adding that he is actively engaged in contract discussions with a major network that he declined to name.
Other strategies include creating genre-based entertainment channels on Yowie's home page that are open to sponsorship, and charging affiliate fees to let entertainers sell merchandise, from MP3 downloads to T-shirts and concert tickets, through the site.
Financing: So far, $2.1 million has been invested, most of it from Mr. Snider himself, along with an early-stage investment from Jon Powell, the president of Kravco, a real estate development company in King of Prussia, Pa. Mr. Snider hopes to raise more cash from either venture capitalists or strategic investors who will bring both dollars and content.
Marketing: Yowie advertises on Facebook. The company's two associate producers blog about coming shows. And whenever large clients, such as Disney, embed Yowie's services on their own, well-trafficked Web sites, it helps get the word out. Four weeks ago, Yowie hired a digital marketing expert. So far, he's ''looking at competition and positioning, developing a strategy,'' Mr. Snider said. ''We want to spread the word with an organized viral approach, and he's the first person we've had on board to focus on that.''
Competition: Two other video chat services are vying for the limelight. Tinychat, based in Glen Cove, N.Y., has financing from Ashton Kutcher and the rapper Sean Combs, both of whom have used the site to hobnob with fans. And Vokle, which happens to be based a few miles away from Yowie in Santa Monica, has hosted events with Al Gore and Weird Al Yankovic.
Challenge: ''I think the biggest challenge is getting viral user growth,'' Mr. Snider said. ''Users, for us, are the people who start the event and are the content providers.''
Now's your chance to weigh in. How can Mr. Snider ensure that repeat users aren't as elusive as a yeti?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jay Snider and his son, Jamie Snider, in a broadcast room of Yowie, their video chat service based in Santa Monica, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); STARTUPS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); INTERNET AUDIO (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (88%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



759 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Pipeline, Wrong Assessment: The State Department fails, again, to consider the risks of tar sands oil

 BODY:
For the second time in a year, the State Department has issued an environmental impact statement about the proposed Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry diluted bitumen -- an acidic crude oil -- from the tar sands of northern Alberta to the Texas Gulf Coast. And for the second time in a year, the Environmental Protection Agency has excoriated the State Department for the inadequacy of its assessment. 
The department, which is involved because the pipeline crosses an international border, has one more chance to get it right when it issues a final environmental statement later this year. It must demonstrate that it can be an honest broker -- appraising the pipeline on the merits, not because of politics or pressure from the Canadian government, big oil and the industry's friends in Congress.
To the supporters, this is a straightforward equation: the pipeline would provide a reliable supply of ''friendly'' oil from a neighboring ally at a time of turmoil in much of the oil-producing world. But Keystone XL would cross sensitive terrain where a spill of diluted bitumen would be especially damaging, including the porous Sand Hills of Nebraska and the shallow Ogallala Aquifer, which supplies much of the Midwest with water.
The risks are real. An earlier pipeline -- carrying tar sands oil to the Midwest and built by TransCanada, the company planning to build Keystone XL -- has had several spills, including recent ones in North Dakota and Kansas. The E.P.A. suggested that the State Department also needed to give more consideration to how constructing and operating the pipeline would affect wetlands, migratory birds and the communities it would pass through.
The E.P.A. has also asked the department to re-examine its assessment of greenhouse gas emissions from tar sands oil. And, the agency notes, both of the environmental assessments failed to consider alternative routes.
These concerns should not be news to the State Department. There has been an outcry against the proposed route of Keystone XL, including protests from senators from Nebraska and Kansas. We oppose this pipeline for several reasons besides its threat to the aquifer. There is already enough capacity to carry tar sands oil from Canada to the United States, and the pipeline would have no effect on oil prices, which are set in international markets.
The extraction process also destroys precious boreal forests, pollutes regional water supplies and creates substantially more greenhouse gases than conventional crude, though Canada insists it is making significant progress toward reducing emissions. On the merits -- economic and environmental -- and in terms of future energy policy, this is the wrong pipeline for the wrong oil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); WETLANDS (73%); WATER QUALITY (67%); BIRDS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



760 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Chance to Reduce Auto Emissions and Our Thirst for Oil

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. BECKER and JAMES GERSTENZANG. 
Daniel F. Becker directs the Safe Climate Campaign. James Gerstenzang, who covered the White House and environment for The Los Angeles Times, is the campaign's editorial director.

 BODY:
Washington
PRESIDENT Obama has promised to break the United States' oil addiction and tackle global warming. With a decision he will make in coming days, he can do both, and help consumers cut gas costs as well.
The right decision would be to order automakers to reduce tailpipe emissions by 6 percent, steering the auto industry away from a century of gas guzzling and transforming it to compete in the world market. It would wean the nation from its oil habit.
The wrong decision would let the auto industry drive itself back into a familiar ditch, while allowing the United States to stumble in the green technology race. 
Under standards that Mr. Obama set last year, cars and S.U.V.'s and other light trucks must reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 5 percent a year, resulting in a 35.5 m.p.g. national average in 2016.
Now, the president is deciding how much to cut emissions through 2025. He has said the reductions will range from 3 percent to 6 percent.
Automakers are pushing for the weakest standard and want the president to riddle it with loopholes. Americans want much better. A survey conducted in May for the Consumer Federation of America, for instance, found that 65 percent of Americans, including 62 percent of Republicans, supported a tough mileage standard-- 60 m.p.g., which would come from installing technology that cuts carbon dioxide emissions 6 percent each year.
It is the biggest single step the president can take against global warming -- and its benefits go beyond that. They would curb our appetite for oil, create jobs and start to check the flow of billions of dollars to OPEC and others.
The stronger the emissions standard, the less gas we will buy -- and the more we will cut our dependence on oil and save at the pump.
With less money going to foreign oil producers, more would go into our economy. This in turn will create jobs: as many as 700,000, including 60,000 in the auto industry, according to a study last month by Ceres, a coalition of investors and environmental and public interest groups. If the United States reduces auto emissions 6 percent a year, it will cut oil consumption 217 million barrels more in 2025 than it would if the reduction is only 3 percent, according to calculations by the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. That means we would pay $16 billion less to foreign oil producers in 2025, with oil at $140 a barrel. Indeed, for every percentage point weaker than a 6 percent cut, foreign oil producers get an extra $5.5 billion from United States consumers.
So, here's the decision for Mr. Obama: Keep the money here or send it there?
The technology to meet a strong mileage and emissions standard sits largely neglected on Detroit's shelves: high-strength, lightweight materials, more-efficient engines and transmissions, and better aerodynamics. Tough standards mean that automakers will need to add it to most vehicles. The hybrid Toyota Prius and Chevrolet Volt show what you can get when you move the technology onto the assembly line.
Yes, the gas-saving technology will raise the cost of the average car. But by needing less fuel, consumers will come out $5,700 to $7,400 ahead, even after paying the higher showroom price, according to the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation. Spend a little to save a lot. That is a good deal.
Carmakers acknowledge that they can comply with a stringent standard. Even G.M., which blew its market lead when it failed to embrace advanced technology, says it can meet an emissions standard that produces a 60 m.p.g. average.
Still, an industry that resisted airbags and catalytic converters is resurrecting its tired argument that consumers will not buy innovative, clean cars. Despite cadging an $85 billion bailout, its lobbyists are fighting aggressively to weaken the next round of standards. What chutzpah.
News reports say the administration and automakers have discussed a 5 percent proposal that would produce cars and light trucks delivering an impressive-sounding 56 m.p.g. by 2025. But look under the hood. The plan would have an escape hatch, allowing for a review that could lower the target before the most stringent rules would take effect, or end the program if automakers convince the government to do so.
This and other loopholes would turn the standard into Swiss cheese. Automakers are eligible for a mileage and emissions credit if they switch to cleaner air conditioning fluid before 2016. The plan would give them the same credit again after 2016, even if they had made the switch. This would be like buying the same horse twice. Another would give a disproportionately large break to companies that make electric vehicles, allowing them to sell additional nonelectric vehicles that give off more emissions than the electric vehicles save. And automakers are lobbying for a backloaded plan, with the biggest cuts at the end and meager reductions at the start.
Mr. Obama has the historic opportunity to begin solving three of the nation's most vexing problems: global warming, the thirst for oil and high gas pump costs. You do that with a strict emissions standard, not loopholes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); JOB CREATION (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



761 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: The Financial Overhaul Has Its Defender in Chief

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
A year ago, Barney Frank notched the biggest win of his three-decade Congressional career, as he ushered the financial regulatory overhaul that bears his name into law.
Today, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is under siege and behind schedule. As worries mount that new regulations could hamper the nation's economic recovery, lobbyists are trying to undo or significantly weaken the law.
Despite the setbacks, the Massachusetts Democrat is still confident Dodd-Frank will help prevent a repeat of the financial crisis.
''I think we have a very good structure in place that will diminish the likelihood of another collapse caused by financial irresponsibility,'' Mr. Frank said during a recent interview on Capitol Hill, looking disheveled in his customary dark suit and red-and-blue striped tie. ''On the whole, I'm very pleased with how it worked out.'' 
Last summer, Mr. Frank overcame fierce opposition from Republican lawmakers and Wall Street lobbyists and remade the financial regulatory landscape.
Named after Mr. Frank, 71, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who has since left Congress, the law was intended to rein in the opaque derivatives market, tighten lending standards and address other structural problems that led to the crisis.
A year later, Mr. Frank has positioned himself as the law's chief defender.
Since leaving the Senate early this year, Mr. Dodd has shied away from discussing the measure. (He declined to comment for this article.)
Now that Mr. Dodd is a registered lobbyist representing the motion picture industry, federal law prohibits the two men from chatting with each other about their law for a year. Recently, Mr. Frank said he started to pick up the phone to call his former colleague before remembering the restriction.
Mr. Frank, a 16-term representative who was chairman of the House Financial Services Committee during the crisis, said Dodd-Frank was ''clearly the best we've ever done in the history of the country to protect consumers and investors from abuses.''
Not surprisingly, Wall Street is less fond of the new rules. Bank executives have torn into the law, claiming that it will cost them billions of dollars. They also warn that some regulations will push business overseas, where international regulators have yet to enact similar rules.
But the army of banking industry lobbyists will not find a sympathetic ear from Mr. Frank.
''To some extent, financial institutions have latched onto the motto of a 14-year-old child of divorced parents playing Mommy off against Daddy: 'Well, if you don't treat me better, I'm going to England,' '' said Mr. Frank, who is known for his sarcastic wit.
''I hate to say this, but the impression I get most is that their feelings are hurt,'' he continued. ''Mostly what I get is, 'Oh, you were rude to us. You said we were fat cats.' ''
His response? ''Get over it. I'm in the kind of business where people say rude things about us all the time.''
Despite the rhetoric, Mr. Frank says Wall Street has gradually adjusted to the new reality. Most banks have spun off their proprietary trading desks, as required, and many are overhauling their derivatives business.
Mr. Frank says he believes the greater threat to Dodd-Frank comes from Congressional Republicans. Over the last several months, conservative lawmakers have moved to chip away at crucial components of the law, the derivatives rules among them. Some two dozen bills are pending in Congress to delay, dismantle or repeal the law altogether.
Under pressure from lawmakers and lobbyists, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission recently decided to postpone some derivatives rules for up to six months. The agency, like other regulators, has already missed many rule-making deadlines.
''They are trying to stall,'' Mr. Frank said of the Republicans, ''and then hope that they will win the 2012 election with the support of the financial people.'' Once in control of Washington, he said, Republicans would ''then undo what we were able to do, and then, yes, the system would be at risk.''
Eager to act, Republicans are already taking aim at financial regulators and their budgets. In June, a House committee approved a plan to keep the Securities and Exchange Commission budget flat. And some lawmakers are now seeking outright cuts. Without increased financing, regulators say they lack the resources to enforce Dodd-Frank.
Some critics of the law contend that it skimped on the details, leaving regulatory agencies with too heavy a burden. Mr. Frank said Congress had no other choice.
''We didn't punt anything,'' he said. ''It's precisely because we knew we couldn't get everything exactly right that we did leave room for the regulators.''
The agencies have yet to disappoint, he said. So far, the S.E.C., the commodities commission and other agencies have proposed dozens of new rules under difficult conditions, earning them an A in Mr. Frank's report card.
''I think the regulators have done very well, with the exception of the Comptroller of the Currency,'' which he said had a reputation for forming cozy relationships with the national banks under its purview. Mr. Frank would give the comptroller a D.
An agency spokesman declined to comment.
Mr. Frank, a stubborn advocate for Dodd-Frank, is quick to acknowledge its shortcomings. ''If I were writing it all by myself,'' he said, ''it would have looked a little different.''
He said he never liked the provision to cap the fees banks could charge retail stores every time a consumer swiped a debit card, a measure inserted by Senator Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. He also wanted to give the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the new watchdog created by the law, authority over car dealerships. But the dealers rallied allies in Congress and won an exemption from the agency's oversight.
The battle over the bureau has since shifted to its leadership. After a delay of nearly a year, President Obama this week nominated the bureau's enforcement chief, Richard Cordray, to lead the new agency. He was chosen over Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard professor who is currently setting up the bureau.
Mr. Frank supports Mr. Cordray, though he is not shy about saying that Ms. Warren was his ''first choice.'' He had urged the president to appoint Ms. Warren since early this year, most recently during a private meeting about a month ago.
Mr. Frank hopes the battles will soon fade, in part so he can move on to the next fight. Even he concedes that arcane financial matters were never his strong point.
''I know more now about repos and derivatives than I ever wanted to know,'' he joked.
''I hope I'll some day be able to forget it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barney Frank describes Dodd-Frank as the best law ever ''to protect consumers and investors from abuses.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HYUNGWON KANG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); LOBBYING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (96%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



762 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS BEAT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Life, Liberty, Pursuit of Fashion: Consumerism Post-9/11

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
''The Right to Fashion in the Age of Terrorism'' by Minh-Ha T. Pham in Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society.
The Argument: Consumerism has long been considered a cornerstone of democracy and a civic obligation in American society. Ms. Pham examines why the fashion industry, in particular, became the emblem of freedom and economic revitalization following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. ''Freedom to shop is one of the fundamental liberties terrorists want to deprive us of,'' Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani declared in October 2001 at the start of Fashion Week in New York. Ms. Pham, an assistant professor of art history and Asian-American studies at Cornell University, argues that the ability to express oneself through dress could be starkly represented as a symbol of democracy in comparison with the burqa, which was denounced as an example of Taliban repression and invoked when government officials listed the humanitarian justifications for the war in Afghanistan. Ms. Pham complains that this assumption about the burqa, however, ignores the desires of Muslim women who may choose to be covered and discounts the hostility that the Muslim veil has sometimes incited in Western societies. 
What's changed: After 9/11, going out to shop was equated with freedom of movement, and dressing yourself in style was equated with freedom of self-expression. ''Cheap chic'' was championed as the democratization of fashion, an example of how the political system embraces rich and poor alike. The Council of Fashion Designers of America's Fashion for America campaign, which sold a white crew-neck T-shirt for $22.50 after 9/11 ''featured a torn heart-shaped flag being sewn back together with a needle and thread, a visual metaphor for the fashion industry's role in stitching back the heart of the nation.'' Ms. Pham says that since the recession hit in 2008, the political meaning of fashion has shifted from fighting terrorism to rescuing the economy, and thereby strengthening democracy. ''If people don't shop, people lose their jobs,'' she quotes the designer Vera Wang as saying in 2009. In order to halt the cycle of spiraling discounts, the fashion industry at the moment, needs consumers to pay more for clothes, not less. ''Whereas just a few years ago fashion in general and cheap chic specifically were celebrated tools for the distribution of democratic rights to self-expression and self-determination, the mass distribution and consumption of fashion today are not understood as contributing to the care of the self or the nation. To the contrary, mass fashion is unhealthy for both.''
What's your take? If you splurge on that designer jacket, are you an anti-terrorism advocate, a recession buster or a spendthrift? Post a comment here.
Thinking Cap offers reports from the world of ideas. Let us know what you think. E-mail: patcohen@nytimes.com; twitter.com/PatcohenNYT
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani encouraged shopping after 9/11. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD RICKERBY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); HISTORY (78%); TALIBAN (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); POLITICS (69%); ART HISTORY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



763 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Push Intensifies For Larger Deal On Debt Impasse

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With the clock ticking down, President Obama and Congressional leaders began a final effort to forge a broad deficit-reduction plan even as new cracks appeared among House Republicans over how to proceed.
The White House suggested for the first time that Mr. Obama might be willing to agree to a short-term increase in the debt ceiling by Congress -- perhaps for a few days -- if such a deal was in sight, stepping up the pressure on the two parties to come to terms.
Mr. Obama met separately at the White House with Republican and Democratic leaders. But neither side reported any substantive progress as they searched for a formula that would include deep spending cuts, cost-saving changes to entitlement programs and an overhaul of the tax code that would increase revenues by closing certain tax breaks and eliminating deductions but also lower some tax rates.
Politically, the main question remained whether House Republicans would be willing to negotiate over any package that could be construed as raising taxes, and throughout the day there were signs of internal debate among party leaders. 
Speaker John A. Boehner has shown continued interest in a deal if it can be done in a way that emphasizes lower tax rates.
But Representative Eric Cantor, the No. 2 Republican, and others like Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the Budget Committee chairman, warned that the most specific proposal to be made public so far -- and the one that has done the most to reopen the possibility of a bipartisan accord -- relied far too much for them on higher revenues to cut projected deficits.
That plan is the one put forward Tuesday by the so-called Gang of Six, a bipartisan group of senators who worked for months to reach an agreement and whose work was lauded by Mr. Obama as a sign that a deal was possible. The plan included a net increase in government revenue of about $1 trillion over a decade.
''I am concerned with the Gang of Six's revenue target,'' Mr. Cantor said.
Deepening the impasse was growing opposition among House Republicans to a fallback position developed by Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican minority leader, that would allow the debt ceiling to be raised without any support from Republicans but also would not impose the dollar-for-dollar cuts in spending that have been central to the party's negotiating position.
But given the looming prospect of Congress's missing the Aug. 2 deadline and risking a default on United States government debt -- a development that could shake financial markets and harm the already weak economy -- some Republicans appeared more willing to consider a deal locking in spending cuts that Mr. Obama has said he would take if balanced by new revenues. Conservatives have split over sticking to their no-taxes principles if it means walking away from progress toward restraining the growth of government.
At the White House, officials alternated between a sense of encouragement and growing concern that time is running out to avert a full-scale crisis.
''There is still time to do something significant if all parties are willing to compromise, because the parameters of what that might look like are well known,'' said Jay Carney, the White House spokesman.
With an eye on the calendar, the president summoned leaders of both parties to build on Tuesday's release of the $3.7 trillion deficit-cutting plan by the Senate's Gang of Six.
At the Capitol, however, the emphasis was on a plan that Mr. McConnell has been putting together with the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, to empower Mr. Obama to raise the borrowing ceiling.
The four House leaders -- Mr. Boehner, Mr. Cantor; Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader; and Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat -- met Wednesday and, according to officials, reviewed problems with the McConnell plan.
Such talks between the two parties' leaders in the House, which are rare given the polarized relations in that chamber, reflect the recognition that the Republican majority cannot pass the increase in the debt limit without a significant number of votes from Democrats.
''The House has got people who are dug in,'' said Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, a former House member and a close friend of Mr. Boehner's. ''He has got a certain number of them who campaigned on not voting to raise the debt ceiling.'' Mr. Chambliss said estimates of the number of House Republicans who would vote against any increase in the debt ceiling ranged as high as 60.
But given the potential for a backlash if there is a crisis, House Republicans were also weighing a short-term extension tied to a corresponding amount of spending cuts, a move the White House was unlikely to favor.
Senate leaders were still planning to go forward with consideration of the McConnell fallback after considering the ''cap, cut and balance'' plan that cleared the House on Tuesday but that has no chance of passing the Senate.
To improve prospects for the McConnell plan in the Senate, the leadership was drawing up a list of spending cuts that would be attached to it as well as other deficit-cutting proposals.
If the president is to proceed with a major agreement, one of his chief hurdles could be winning some support from leaders in the Senate.
The leaders of the Gang of Six -- Mr. Chambliss and Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia -- were finding it harder on Wednesday to get other senators to sign a letter endorsing their approach than might have been suggested by the support voiced a day earlier among the 43 colleagues who attended a closed-door briefing on the package.
''There were a lot of people who said yesterday in our meeting, 'Hey, we want to be supportive, but we want some detail.' And that's a fair question,'' Mr. Chambliss said in an interview. ''They're still supportive, but they're not willing to put their names on the line until they see a lot more of the intricate detail, and I don't blame them.''
Despite talk of a breakthrough, administration officials worried that Congress's schedule left no room for error.
The situation is reviving memories in both parties of two previous times that House Republicans rebelled against their leadership's compromises, provoking such negative market reactions that the Republicans quickly retreated: in September 2008, when the House initially rejected President George W. Bush's proposed bailout of the financial system, and in October 1990, when House Republicans opposed a deficit-reduction deal that the first President Bush had negotiated with Congress's Democratic leaders.
''This time is, unfortunately, more consequential,'' a senior administration official said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid is working on a fallback plan to empower the president to raise the borrowing ceiling.
Representative Eric Cantor told reporters that a plan relied far too much on higher revenues to cut projected deficits.
Senator Mike Crapo, a Republican member of the so-called Gang of Six senators, talked to reporters about a possible deal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Obama says the Gang of Six'' has put forth a broader proposal that is more in line with the White House thinking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); DEBT CEILING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); TAX REFORM (68%); CURRENCIES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%); ERIC CANTOR (78%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); MIKE CRAPO (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



764 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Wheeling and Dealing

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- American carmakers and the United Automobile Workers union open contract talks next week with a common task of preserving the comeback of an industry that was on the verge of collapse just two years ago.
But their cooperation will be put to the test as the sides square off over how to divide the profits of Detroit's unexpectedly swift revival.
After a period of plunging sales, bankruptcies and government bailouts, the union is hoping to regain some of its lost jobs, reopen closed factories, and increase the pay of its 111,000 members, some of whom are being paid half as much for entry-level jobs as other workers under a two-tier wage arrangement.
But those goals run against the priorities of Detroit's Big Three automakers, who want to hold the line on costs and further close the gap in productivity with foreign-owned factories in the United States, which employ much cheaper nonunion workers. 
And while contract negotiations are always prickly, this round has a particularly prominent backdrop: the long shadow of the Obama administration, which bailed out both General Motors and Chrysler and shepherded the automakers through Chapter 11.
As part of the bailouts, the U.A.W. agreed to no-strike clauses at both companies and to submit to arbitration in the event that a contract could not be reached.
That leaves Ford, the most successful of the three, as the only possible strike target should the talks fall apart. But the U.A.W. benefited greatly from the federal intervention, and Ford has been hailed by consumers for surviving the recession without financial help from taxpayers.
For the union to strike Ford or enter a contentious arbitration process could reignite debate over the bailouts and prove politically embarrassing to President Obama as he readies next year's re-election campaign.
Bob King, the union's president, said in an interview that he was ''morally and legally'' bound to get the best deal possible for his membership, regardless of the political consequences. ''But if we end up with a strike or arbitration,'' he acknowledged, ''I'd feel like I failed in many ways.''
The union's four-year contracts with G.M., Ford and Chrysler expire in mid-September. Indications are that the U.A.W. will be aggressively seeking better profit-sharing, job guarantees, and wage increases for lower-paid, entry-level workers.
''Our members have sacrificed a lot,'' Mr. King said. ''We're trying to figure out a path that gives members more income but doesn't disadvantage the companies.''
All three automakers are making money and expanding sales. But they are loath to do anything that hurts their newfound competitiveness or adds costs to their streamlined manufacturing operations. The Big Three earned nearly $6 billion in combined profits during the first quarter of this year, and paid sizable profit-sharing checks this spring based on their 2010 results.
''We all know that there are things we can't do to go back to how we were,'' said Cathy Clegg, head of G.M. labor relations, during an appearance Monday at a truck plant in Flint, Mich. ''We need to see a pretty healthy market recovery before we start turning factories back on.''
All three companies have drastically cut production and jobs in recent years to better match their smaller market shares. The U.A.W. currently has less than half the number of employees at G.M., Ford and Chrysler than just five years ago.
The pain of losing so many jobs is still fresh in the minds of the surviving workers, said Mr. King, who was elected president last year after previously running the U.A.W.'s Ford division.
''They want stability,'' he said. ''They want to know they'll be working next week and next year, and that they will be able to send their kids to college.''
But while preserving jobs is paramount, Mr. King said that workers deserved a bigger share of the economic benefits of Detroit's turnaround.
While Mr. King does not expect across-the-board wage increases, he said the automakers should improve their profit-sharing formulas, something some auto executives have indicated a willingness to consider. He added that new entry-level workers, who are paid about $15 an hour compared with $28 for regular U.A.W. members, deserve pay increases in the new contract.
''I don't think you should be working in the auto industry at poverty-level wages when the companies are doing well,'' he said.
In the last negotiations in 2007, the companies successfully removed retiree health care costs from their balance sheets by financing union-run trusts. However, in these talks Mr. King vowed to fight any efforts by the automakers to trim the medical coverage and other benefits of active workers.
''There is no justification for any concessions in this round of bargaining,'' he said. ''That is just not going to happen.''
Detroit will be looking for ways to shrink the cost gap between U.A.W. workers and nonunion employees of American plants owned by Toyota, Hyundai and other foreign car companies.
The disparity is less than in previous years. In 2010, the average hourly labor cost for a union worker ranged from $58 at Ford to $49 at Chrysler. That compares with about $55 at Toyota and $44 at Hyundai, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
The automakers are not commenting publicly on how they expect to lower their costs. Industry experts say that the companies want more flexibility on work rules, job assignments and production schedules.
The companies will resist pressure from the union to reopen closed plants that do not have new products on the way.
''Right now the market won't call for that,'' said Art Schwartz, a former G.M. labor negotiator who is now president of the firm Labor and Economics Associates. ''They are not going to open a plant up and lose money.''
The no-strike clauses and arbitration requirements at G.M. and Chrysler could complicate the negotiations. Ford could be vulnerable because it could agree to a deal with the U.A.W. that might not stand up to arbitration at one of the other companies.
The tough times in recent years do appear to have produced an ongoing constructive dialogue between the companies and their union. Mr. King and company executives speak proudly of their regular meetings to discuss topics like vehicle quality and broader issues like new fuel economy regulations.
''It's more a problem-solving relationship rather than who is right and who is wrong,'' he said. ''You know, we're not out of the woods yet.''
And although the automotive market has rebounded somewhat and Detroit is earning profits again, both the union and the car companies are painfully aware of how fragile their recovery is. ''This is not the time to get greedy on either side,'' Mr. Schwartz said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The United Automobile Workers union has far fewer employees at the major auto manufacturers than just five years ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES)
Bob King, the union president, said he wanted to get the best deal possible for his membership. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 The union, while not expecting broad wage increases, wants an improved profit-sharing formula. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); STRIKES (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



765 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: As Rivals Stir, Romney Sticks to Playing It Safe

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JENNIFER MEDINA; Jeff Zeleny reported from Washington, and Jennifer Medina from Los Angeles.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Tim Pawlenty forged ahead on an 18-city tour across Iowa, a dawn-to-dusk schedule of courting voters. Michele Bachmann released a new television ad warning against raising the nation's debt limit. And Gov. Rick Perry of Texas inched even closer to entering the presidential race, inviting top-shelf donors to Austin.
But where was Mitt Romney? 
He arrived in Los Angeles on Wednesday, getting about as far away from the budget debate in Washington -- and the rest of his Republican rivals -- as he could. A brief afternoon stop at a forlorn strip mall in the San Fernando Valley, where he lobbed a long-distance critique of President Obama's economic policy, served as his sole public appearance of the week.
''I look forward to a campaign where the president stands up and talks about what a great job he's done on the economy,'' Mr. Romney told a handful of supporters gathered in a parking lot. ''We're now three years into his four-year term and unemployment is still above 8 percent. If that's not the definition of failure, I don't know what is.''
A play-it-safe strategy, with a direct focus on Mr. Obama, has served Mr. Romney fairly well during the first seven months of the year. He has not had to accept ownership of positions being taken by Republicans in Congress. He has stuck to his message on the economy and job creation, even while navigating criticism about his health care record as governor of Massachusetts.
But as the Republican presidential campaign intensifies, with Mrs. Bachmann capturing the imagination of conservative activists and Mr. Perry being forcefully recruited by Republican leaders to declare his candidacy, Mr. Romney's determinedly low-key approach could be fraught with peril.
There is little question that Mr. Romney sits at the top of the 2012 Republican class -- he has raised more money than any other candidate, his rivals are jockeying to become his alternative and the White House is fixated on him more than any contender. But it remains a question how long he can go days at a time without engaging with his challengers.
Former Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, who is backing Mr. Romney and hosting a fund-raising luncheon for him next week, said he was growing concerned that Mr. Romney was erring on the side of being too cautious for the Republican primary electorate and failing to take advantage of the unsettled field.
''I don't know that what he's doing is necessarily the right strategy, but it so far has been working for him,'' Mr. Lott said in an interview. ''But I think he is going to have to pick it up. I'm going to ask him, 'What's your strategy here and are you going to pick it up a notch?' ''
While Mr. Romney has invested considerable time and money campaigning in New Hampshire in recent weeks, even as he has quietly kept alive his organization in Iowa, he is taking a vastly different approach than during his first presidential race.
At this point four years ago, he had been advertising on TV for six months. This time, he has yet to broadcast a single spot and instructed his advisers to avoid becoming consumed by the daily back-and-forth of a campaign.
He has started to sprinkle more public events into his schedule -- including the stop along Laurel Canyon Boulevard just north of downtown Los Angeles, where paint peeled from the rooftops of shuttered storefronts. Mr. Romney nostalgically recalled that it was the same location where John F. Kennedy campaigned in 1960 when it was among the premiere shopping malls in America. ''It's certainly lost that,'' Mr. Romney said.
He squeezed the stop, which lasted about 15 minutes, between a series of fund-raisers and private meetings in California. But the days of relative solitude may be soon running out.
Mr. Romney was not the only potential Republican candidate in California. Mr. Perry, who intends to announce his decision in the coming weeks, visited donors in Los Angeles, Fresno and Stockton on Wednesday, with stops planned in San Francisco and San Jose on Thursday. In private meetings, Republicans say, Mr. Perry presents himself as the chief alternative to Mr. Romney.
The prospect of Mr. Perry's joining the race has pushed Mr. Romney to try to secure as many campaign donations and bundlers as he can, even as their respective aides begin charting strategies for how to challenge each other.
Alex Castellanos, a strategist who advised the Romney campaign four years ago, said Mr. Romney would not drop out of the conversation by intentionally keeping a low profile. But he wondered whether Mr. Romney had fully taken advantage of the time in which he could have dominated the field.
''The real challenge is to use this time to build his base,'' Mr. Castellanos said in an interview. ''He now has a window to explain why he is indispensably needed. The vacuum is the front-runner -- that's what makes this year different. He needs to fill it.''
In his second bid for the nomination, Mr. Romney has made clear that he intends to campaign on his own terms. He is focusing almost exclusively on Mr. Obama and trying not to be drawn into the fray a moment sooner than necessary. But that moment is most likely approaching.
As Mr. Romney departed the mall on Wednesday, his advisers were keeping close watch on his rivals, two of whom spent the day in Iowa trying to build support for next month's straw poll. After winning the event four years ago, Mr. Romney has declined to participate this year, but his campaign made clear that it would not ignore Iowa entirely.
He announced that five Republicans had been added to his leadership team in the state that opens the nominating contest next year, sending a signal that he is keeping all options open.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In his only scheduled public appearance of the week, Mitt Romney spoke about the economy on Wednesday in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); DEBT CEILING (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); MICHELE BACHMANN (77%); TIM PAWLENTY (73%); RICK PERRY (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); TRENT LOTT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



766 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Steps Back, Europe Takes Bigger Role in Mideast Peace Push

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It is a truism of Middle East peacemaking that the United States is the pivotal player -- the most credible broker between the Israelis and the Palestinians. But with talks at a standstill, the Obama administration now finds itself on the sidelines, and Europe is emerging as the key diplomatic actor.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, have crisscrossed the Continent in recent weeks, trying to woo leaders who are weighing whether to support a Palestinian bid for statehood at the United Nations in September. Neither man has visited Washington since the spring. 
That may suit the administration just fine. The White House, several officials said, has deliberately kept a low profile since President Obama's speech on the Middle East in May, in which he tried unsuccessfully to break the stalemate by proposing a starting point for negotiating the contours of a Palestinian state.
Europe's rising role stems not only from American fatigue with a seemingly intractable problem, but also from the peculiar dynamics of the Palestinian campaign at the United Nations. With more than 100 countries, most in the developing world, expected to support Palestinian recognition -- and the United States almost certain to oppose it -- Britain, France and Germany are viewed as influential swing votes.
''Rarely has Europe been so courted when it comes to Middle East diplomacy,'' said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''Europe is the prize this summer.''
For the Europeans, who have also taken a lead role in the NATO military campaign in Libya, the chance to play Middle East power broker is gratifying. But it comes with a risk, said Martin S. Indyk, director of foreign policy at the Brookings Institution and a former American ambassador to Israel. ''The action in the United Nations is a bigger problem for them than for us,'' he said. ''It has the potential of splitting the E.U., with some siding with us and Israel and some siding with the Palestinians.''
A rift is the last thing the European Union needs, at a time when the bloc is being strained by the debt crisis in Greece. Already, the major countries appear divided, with Germany and Italy rejecting the Palestinian campaign, France and Spain receptive, and Britain on the fence.
For some Europeans, leaving the door open to Palestinian recognition is a handy way to pressure Israel to return to negotiations, which have been on ice since last fall. To break that deadlock, Mr. Obama proposed using the prevailing borders before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, adjusted to account for Jewish settlements in the West Bank, as the basis for negotiating a new Palestinian state. Mr. Netanyahu initially rejected that formula, saying it would render Israel indefensible. But an Israeli official said that in recent weeks, Mr. Netanyahu had moved much closer to accepting the idea, provided that the Palestinians agreed to recognition of Israel as a Jewish state, something they have long refused.
Last week, the United States tried to build support for such a quid pro quo from the Quartet, a Middle East peacemaking group that also includes the European Union, the United Nations and Russia. Winning the Quartet's endorsement would have put pressure on both sides to resume negotiations and taken much of the steam out of the Palestinian march to the United Nations.
While European countries have publicly backed Mr. Obama's proposal for restarting the talks, several of them, as well as Russia, balked at the Jewish-state provision, officials briefed on the meeting said. Rather than issue an anodyne statement, as it often does, the Quartet chose to say nothing at all.
The Palestinian date with the United Nations looms large, though no one is exactly sure what will happen after it. Israel's defense minister, Ehud Barak, warned that his country faced a ''diplomatic tsunami.'' Others worry that it will kick off a third intifada, given the political ferment elsewhere in the region.
''The conditions for massive public reaction are ripe,'' Ghaith al-Omari, the executive director of the American Task Force on Palestine, said. ''If things go down that path, it would be highly destabilizing.''
The United States continues to work on European allies and the Palestinians to point out the downsides of going for recognition, including the threat that Congress could vote to cut off aid to the Palestinian Authority.
Still, the administration has opted for what one Middle East diplomat called a ''tactical withdrawal,'' leaving it to Tony Blair, the former British prime minister who is the special envoy to the Quartet, to try to close the gaps. While the United States does not want to be isolated by vetoing a Palestinian resolution, which Mr. Obama has signaled he will do, the administration appears less agitated by this prospect than it was a few months ago.
''The U.S. is frustrated, but ultimately an outcome where it vetoes a resolution is not the end of the world,'' said Robert Malley, the Middle East and North Africa program director at the International Crisis Group.
Palestinian leaders insist they are determined to go through with the drive for recognition, but it could take less aggressive forms: petitioning the General Assembly, rather than the Security Council, for nonmember status, thus sidestepping an American veto. The Palestinians could even propose a resolution that echoes Mr. Obama's formula for talks. This is where Europe plays an important role. Without support from big countries like Britain and France, the Palestinians may opt to hold off or pursue a softer resolution. And if they go ahead at the Security Council, the Europeans could introduce an alternative resolution embracing Mr. Obama's principles.
''The United States has put its cards on the table, but Europe has not yet done that,'' said Robert Danin, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who used to run the Jerusalem office of the Quartet. ''The run-up to September is not about numbers. It's about: Where does the West stand?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, left, with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France in May 2010 in Paris. Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader, left, with Spain's prime minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, in Madrid on Wednesday. The Israeli and Palestinian leaders are trying to win support in Europe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC FEFERBERG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 DOMINIQUE FAGET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); EURO CRISIS (72%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (50%); DEBT CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (77%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (73%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (56%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (51%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (92%); GREECE (79%); ITALY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011



767 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Are Secondary Markets Good or Bad for Tech?

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER


HIGHLIGHT: Markets for selling shares of private companies have changed the tech landscape and now businesses and investors are responding.

 BODY:
ASPEN, Colo. -- Many of Silicon Valley's engineers are getting rich long before the companies they work for go public or get acquired by a bigger company. How? They sell their shares of these private companies on the secondary market. 
Unheard of just a few years ago, private markets like SecondMarket and SharesPost have changed the landscape of the tech business. Now tech investors and start-up founders and executives are figuring out how to respond. 
"It's a distraction," said Dick Costolo, Twitter's chief executive, at the Fortune Brainstorm Tech conference in Aspen. "We and Zynga and Facebook have retroactively had to put lots of policies in place to constrain that." 
New start-ups are writing bylaws that govern sales of shares on the secondary market, said Matt Cohler, a partner at Benchmark Capital. He encourages start-up founders to do so. 
Private markets took off because the public markets option was virtually closed to tech companies and big companies were being less acquisitive. That has recently changed. Still, the private markets will probably remain popular, those at the conference said, because companies like Facebook and Yelp are taking longer to go public and employees want a payday.
"This is going to become a real alternative to companies that don't yet want to get sold and don't yet want to go public," said Barry Silbert, chief executive of SecondMarket. 
Frank Quattrone, the investment banker, said that whether private markets are beneficial depends on the employees' motivation for selling their shares -- cashing out, versus buying a house so they can concentrate at work. Conventional wisdom used to be that employees stayed motivated because they had the incentive of a future payday when the company went public. 
"People thought they would get so wealthy that they wouldn't come back to work the next day," Mr. Quattrone said. "But these management teams are saying, 'Let me take a little bit of the risk out so I can do something at a much larger scale.'"

        
Venture Capital Slims Down on the Recession Diet
        
Lehman Brothers Spins Off Venture Capital Arm
        
Venture Capital Returns Dip Below Zero
        
Losses for Venture Fund Investors Who Want Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); BONDS (71%) secondary market; Costolo, Dick; Quattrone, Frank P; Start-ups; Stocks and Bonds; SecondMarket Inc; SharesPost Inc; Venture Capital and Finance

COMPANY: BENCHMARK CAPITAL (58%); SECONDMARKET INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SecondMarket Inc; SharesPost Inc

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Costolo, Dick; Quattrone, Frank P

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



768 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Frank Quattrone Is Having Flashbacks to the Bubble

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER


HIGHLIGHT: Frank Quattrone, the star tech investment banker, says the tech industry is at the beginning of a boom and compares LinkedIn's I.P.O. to Netscape's in 1995.

 BODY:
ASPEN, Colo. -- Frank P. Quattrone is the banker who helped set off the dot-com boom when he took Netscape public in 1995. Today he is having flashbacks. 
Answering the question on the tip of everyone's tongues in the tech world -- is there a bubble? -- he said that current times remind him not of the height of the last bubble but of the early days of the boom. 
"It really feels to me more like 1995, which is the beginning of a new era of I.P.O.'s," he said at Fortune's conference here. "The new era is called social, local, mobile, real-time." 
Shares of Web companies that have recently gone public, from LinkedIn in May to Zillow on Wednesday, have surged in the first day of trading, reminiscent of the dot-com bubble. But Mr. Quattrone said that is probably because so many investors want to invest in social networking companies, just as Netscape attracted investors desperate to own shares in a Web company. It was not until four or five years later than investors started speculating and the bubble peaked, he said. 
"If people wanted to invest in Web, that was the only stock they could do it, so Netscape's market value was higher than it probably should have been, and people could probably say the same thing about LinkedIn today," Mr. Quattrone said. "LinkedIn is the Netscape of its era." 
Mr. Quattrone, a star investment banker of the dot-com era who was sidelined for four years as he fought and beat obstruction of justice charges, is staying out of I.P.O.'s this time around. His young investment banking firm, Qatalyst Partners, advises big and small companies on acquisitions and other business matters. 
He has quietly been involved in many recent deals, including the sale of National Semiconductor to Texas Instruments for $6.5 billion, the sale of PopCap to Electronic Arts for $750 million and the sale of Zong to eBay for $240 million. 
One sign that we might be approaching another bubble: if companies start manufacturing new metrics to replace profits, like "a multiple of engineers," he said. "When you see stuff like that happen, it's time to put a big short on the market." 
Some companies in the local business are asking investors to trust that they can grow based on success in one city. "A lot of cohort analysis has crept in," he said. But over all, he is not worried. "It all comes down to good old free cash flow, and I think that's just healthy," he said. 
One company that is not yet profitable in which Mr. Quattrone has faith: Twitter. He doubted its usefulness at first, he said, but was convinced when his daughter was in New Zealand when an earthquake hit and Twitter gave him information quicker than any other Web site. 
"Twitter has a several-hour advantage in getting information," Mr. Quattrone said. "I don't follow any particular periodical anymore. I use Twitter as my customized news feed."

        
Would You Like Some Dog Food With Your Diapers? 
        
Thiel: Tech Bubble? What Tech Bubble? 
        
Want Success in Silicon Valley? Drop Out of School
        
What We're Reading: What You're Reading
        
Dot-Com Crash Catches Up With Venture Capitalists

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); BONDS (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); SEMICONDUCTORS (62%); CASH FLOW (60%) bubble; dot-com bubble; Frank Quattrone; Quattrone, Frank P; Initial Public Offerings; Social Networking (Internet); Stocks and Bonds; LinkedIn Corporation; Netscape; Twitter; LinkedIn Corporation|LNKD|NYSE; Internet; Silicon Valley; Start-ups; Venture Capital and Finance

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (56%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LinkedIn Corporation; Netscape; Twitter

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (56%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%); EA (NASDAQ) (52%) LinkedIn Corporation; LNKD; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: Quattrone, Frank P

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



769 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Sharing Patents to Wipe Out AIDS

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: The big drug maker Gilead Science has taken an important step in making AIDS drugs more available worldwide. But obstacles remain.

 BODY:
Not since the announcement in 1996 that antiretroviral therapy could effectively control H.I.V. has there been a season of AIDS news as hopeful as this one. Trials of a new microbicide have brought positive results; ongoing studies of circumcision are showing that it gives strong, lasting, protection; a man has been cured of H.I.V. infection and new animal and clinical trials are raising hopes that he won't be alone. 
The research with the most immediate and dramatic impact, however, examines two novel ways to use those antiretroviral drugs. People with H.I.V. who start their antiretroviral therapy as soon as they are diagnosed, instead of waiting for their immune systems to degrade, have a near-zero chance of passing the virus on to their sexual partners. This is the AIDS vaccine we've been waiting for - a 96 percent drop in infection rates is far better protection than any actual AIDS vaccine could provide. It has also now been shown that giving one antiretroviral pill a day to people who have H.I.V. but are at very high risk for catching it can reduce their risk by two-thirds or more.Taken together, these two methods of using antiretroviral drugs not just to treat AIDS, but also to prevent its spread, offer real hope of ending the epidemic. But there's a catch: they require providing these drugs to millions, perhaps tens of millions, more people than are getting them now. Someone has to pay for all this.
That's why it matters that last week, Gilead Sciences, one of the most important manufacturers of AIDS drugs, became the first drug maker to join something called the Medicines Patent Pool, a two-year-old organization that was established by Unitaid, an international body dedicated to buying AIDS drugs. In joining the patent pool, Gilead agrees to let generic pharmaceutical companies copy four of its drugs for sale at very low prices in poor countries. Gilead will get a small royalty for every copy sold.
This development might seem like the most obscure of events. But it is an important step towards solving the problem of paying for AIDS drugs for vast numbers of people. Wealthy countries' tolerance for spending money on medicine has already diminished to the point where we are not only denying drugs to people sick enough to be in desperate need of them, but also contemplating cutting off the supply to people already on them. This is happening even in the United States - for example the state of Florida, which already has nearly 4,000 people with AIDS on a waiting list to get antiretroviral drugs, has proposed cutting off funding for about 1,600 people who now rely on them. (A foolish plan: the cost of their emergency room visits will more than make up for any savings.)
As budgets shrink, the fate of the AIDS epidemic will increasingly depend on our success in lowering the price of antiretroviral drugs. In the past 10 years, as more and more poor countries have begun offering antiretroviral treatment, competition from generic drugs has brought down the price of AIDS medicines dramatically. A year of the gold-standard triple therapy is now available for only $143 in some poor countries.
Even that is far too expensive for most developing countries, so these drugs are largely paid for by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and by the United States President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or PEPFAR. When the Bush administration began PEPFAR, it resisted the use of generic drugs, at the behest of the pharmaceutical industry. But even under President Bush PEPFAR officials realized that the use of generics would allow the program to reach far more people - generics, one study showed, saved PEPFAR $323 million over four years.
The Medicines Patent Pool is modeled on a patent pool created by aircraft manufacturers in World War I. The idea of using it for AIDS drugs came from Jamie Love, a veteran campaigner for lower prices for essential medicines. Love, who now leads a group called Knowledge Ecology International, first proposed the idea at an AIDS conference in 2002, and it became a reality in 2009. Now the patent pool has left Unitaid and is a freestanding organization.
Last year, in a show of support from the Obama administration, the U.S. National Institutes of Health became the first entity to donate intellectual property to the patent pool. It gave the pool rights to an AIDS drug developed in N.I.H. labs. Gilead, the first pharmaceutical company to join, has granted the patent pool licenses to four medicines for use in the developing world, and will supply all the data and information needed to make them. The patent pool can then award sub-licenses to certain generic drug makers. Gilead will receive royalties for sales of the copies of its drugs.
The patent pool is designed to solve several important problems. One is that poor countries - the countries where medicine is most desperately needed - usually have to wait a long time for affordable medicines. Under ordinary circumstances, medicines are not available in generic form until 20-year patents expire. But the patent pool can make drugs them available in generic form right away. Two of Gilead's covered AIDS drugs and one combination pill are still in development, not even yet on the market. With the patent pool, they will likely be available in affordable form in poor countries the same time that people can get them in the United States and Europe.
Another advantage of the patent pool is that it can overcome the intellectual property obstacles in the way of creating combination pills. People are much more likely to take their medicines successfully when they are combined into a single pill, to be taken daily or twice-daily. It can't happen if each medicine is under patent by a different company, but it can with the patent pool's licenses. Generic manufacturers can also improve on the drugs in other ways - by inventing formulations that are heat-stable, for example, or made for children. (To encourage the development of pediatric formulations, which are in very short supply, Gilead says it will waive its royalties on these drugs.)
The Medicines Patent Pool is also designed to drive down the price of drugs. One way is by licensing various generic manufacturers to make them, creating competition. The other path is by selling these generic medicines in middle-income countries as well - the larger markets will bring down prices.
There are other ways to make medicines more affordable. Companies can choose to slash prices or license their drugs to generic manufacturers for sale in poor countries; most AIDS drug makers have done some of this. Or countries can legally make or buy the generics without the originator company's consent, paying the originator company a royalty. These strategies, however, have been piecemeal, in many cases temporary, legally complicated, politically difficult and slow. Most countries don't do them. They are afraid to - such moves are often punished by the United States and the European Union, where pharmaceutical companies exert a heavy influence over trade policy.
It's obvious how people with AIDS can benefit from the patent pool, but what's in it for the drug companies? Some royalties and economies of scale. A lot of goodwill. Over the past 10 years, drug companies have gradually moved from a "one planet, one price" dictum - or worse: they used to charge in Kenya than in Britain - to acceptance of tiered pricing. They have never wanted to give up their intellectual property rights by licensing generics, but they have been pushed into it by the public relations catastrophe caused by their aggressive defense of high prices everywhere.
"A piece of their motivation is reputational benefits," said Brook K. Baker, a professor at Northeastern University School of Law who has been a vocal supporter of increased access to medicines. "They've faced their fair share of protest over the years. And they are hoping it will take the pressure off for even more sweeping reform. They are betting that by giving access to more countries and earlier access, it will take the pressure off demands for middle-income-country access."
This is a key point. It is the patent pool's most important draw for pharmaceutical companies - and its most serious potential weakness. Gilead says its licensing agreements "focus on the countries with the greatest need and where the greatest number of people with H.I.V. live." But the agreement Gilead negotiated only covers very poor countries. It leaves out Egypt, China, Brazil, plus dozens of other developing countries. Current AIDS drug prices in these countries are six or seven times the price of drugs in sub-Saharan Africa. Without help from the patent pool, these countries have little hope of expanding antiretroviral coverage.
The patent pool reports that seven other drug companies are currently in negotiations. They are likely to try to copy Gilead. "The big worry is what will happen with middle income countries," said Tido von Schoen-Angerer, executive director of Medecins Sans Frontieres' campaign for access to essential medicines. "What we have seen with Gilead should be the floor, not the ceiling."
This attempt to draw a line between the Malawis and Afghanistans of the world and the slightly-better off Egypts and Indonesias is not limited to the patent pool alone. On Wednesday, I'll respond to comments and look at how drug makers are now raising prices significantly in these lower-middle-income countries. And not just drug makers - for all its support of the patent pool and use of generic drugs in PEPFAR, the Obama administration is still negotiating trade deals that are likely to put lifesaving medicines out of reach for millions of people.

        
In Iran, a Brotherhood of Doctors and Patients
        
The Path From Charity to Profit
        
An Enlightened Exchange in Iran
        
Doing Good by Default
        
The Opt-Out Solution

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (99%); ANTIVIRALS (95%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (95%); VACCINES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PATENTS (86%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%) AIDS; antiretroviral drugs; HIV; Medicines Patent Pool; pharmaceutical industry; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic Brands and Products; Inventions and Patents; Third World and Developing Countries; Gilead Sciences Incorporated; Medicines Patent Pool Foundation; National Institutes of Health; Unitaid; Gilead Sciences Incorporated|GILD|NASDAQ; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%) Gilead Sciences Incorporated; Medicines Patent Pool Foundation; National Institutes of Health; Unitaid

TICKER: Gilead Sciences Incorporated; GILD; NASDAQ

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



770 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Could Tax Reform Make the Financial System Safer?

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Why not think of banks' overborrowing as a form of financial pollution, and tax or regulate as we do auto emissions, an economist asks.

 BODY:
In the deafening cacophony of voices in Washington on the debt ceiling, it is easy to miss a potentially more significant development. There is growing bipartisan interest in tax reform, including changing the corporate tax system to make it more sensible and a bulwark against financial sector instability.
The House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee held a joint hearing last week - the first time these two committees had met in this fashion to discuss taxation in more than 70 years, their chairmen said. The theme of the hearing, "Tax Reform and the Tax Treatment of Debt and Equity," might sound dry, but in fact it was well designed to carve out some space for agreement across the political spectrum. 
The basic question at the hearing was: Did the tax code contribute to the severity of the financial crisis in 2008-9? At one level the answer is a simple yes, because the tax deductibility of interest payments encourages families to take out bigger mortgages and companies to borrow more relative to their equity capital. (Dividend payments to stockholders are not tax deductible.) 
But where in the tax code should we focus attention if the goal is to prevent similar crises in the future?
I testified at the hearing and argued that banks and other financial institutions should be the priority, because their overborrowing was central to past crises and is likely to be a salient issue in the future. It is also ironic - perhaps even bizarre - that while we try to constrain how much banks borrow through regulation, we give them strong incentives to borrow more through the tax code.This "debt bias" is covered in detail by two very good Joint Committee on Taxation reports that were released at the hearing, one on business debt and one on household debt. (This committee comprises a subset of members from the Ways and Means and Finance Committees; on these technical issues it makes sense to get as many legislators as possible on the same page.)
One goal is "tax neutrality," meaning that from a tax perspective it would be equally attractive to raise capital through issuing debt or through issuing equity. This could be done by limiting the tax deduction on interest payments or creating an equivalent type of deduction for dividends. In other words, you could raise more or less revenue with such a change, but the debt bias can be addressed.
I proposed that we go further and consider a tax on "excess leverage" in the financial sector. The idea - already being applied by some European countries and further developed by some of my former colleagues at the International Monetary Fund - is based on the premise that a high level of borrowing relative to equity is a form of pollution, creating negative spillovers for the rest of the economy. 
When any entity in the financial system has little equity relative to its debts, it has moved closer to becoming insolvent. We need big banks, in particular, to have strong loss-absorbing buffers, and that is the role played by equity capital. But the same logic applies to insurance companies, hedge funds and even leveraged buyout firms. 
When anyone has a great deal of leverage, this amplifies the upside return on equity - for a given return on assets, equity holders get more. It also amplifies the downside returns. And executives do not generally pay sufficient concern to the effects of their firm's potential bankruptcy on the rest of the financial system.
One way to structure this approach would be as a "thin capitalization" tax - so companies of any kind would be taxed on debts that exceeded some reasonable multiple of their equity (perhaps a multiple of three or four). 
We tax pollutants to discourage their production in other parts of the economy. Sometimes we use regulation, as in limits on auto or power-plant emissions. But in banking we limit leverage (debt relative to equity) through regulation while encouraging leverage through the tax code. This makes no sense.
The revenue from the excess leverage tax or thin capitalization tax could be used to help pay for broader tax reductions for the nonfinancial corporate sector.
When banks implode, a big part of the costs are imposed on nonfinancial companies, their employees and their investors. The companies lose access to credit, their customers become reluctant to buy and so on. The fiscal costs of a major bank-induced recession are also huge: the 2008-9 episode will end up increasing our ratio of government debt to gross domestic product by more than 40 percent. 
For 2018, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that we will have more than $8.5 trillion in government debt as a direct result of the crisis (the details are in my testimony).
Either taxes will be increased or productive government spending will be decreased, or both, as a result of the crisis, with a direct negative impact on the nonbank part of the economy.
Why not give everyone a tax break, financed by taxing the pollution generated by banks? At the very least, the prospect of such a break should encourage powerful corporate lobbies to reflect on whether American banks should continue to get their unnecessarily favorable tax treatment.

        
The Big Banks Fight On
        
Big Banks Have a Powerful New Opponent
        
Are Bank Examiners to Blame for Slow Job Growth?
        
Are We About to Repeat the Mistakes of 1937?
        
Will the United States Default?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX REFORM (93%); TAX LAW (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEREGULATION (79%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BANKING LAW (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); DIVIDENDS (72%); FAMILY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (61%); EMISSIONS (61%) banking regulation; Daily Economist; Joint Committee on Taxation; politics; regulation; Simon Johnson; Taxation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Corporate Taxes; Federal Taxes (US); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



771 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: As a River Warms, Hope Beckons

BYLINE: LESLIE KAUFMAN


HIGHLIGHT: By removing dikes or highways that function as dikes, planners can make way for rising seas that are expected to push an ecosystem farther inland in Washington State.

 BODY:
In my article in Thursday's Times about the future of the Nisqually watershed in Washington State, I mention efforts by conservation groups and land trusts across the country to buy up land parcels that are expected to turn into valuable ecological assets someday -- marshes or swamplands, for example -- as the sea rolls further inland because of global warming.
However, conservation is not accomplished just by purchasing land. Take, for example, the hope for the eventual conversion of farmland behind the Nisqually National Wildlife Refuge.
Climate scientists suggest that the world's oceans could rise as much as three feet over the next century as icebergs melt and the seas warm and expand in volume. The Pacific Northwest office of Ducks Unlimited, an environmental group, has done quite a bit of work with computer modeling to figure out what this could mean for wetlands across the region.
Tom Dwyer, conservation director for that office, says there is both good news and bad news. First, the bad news: the computer modeling shows that if human infrastructure remains unchanged in Puget Sound and the sea rises 27 inches, 2,000 acres of low-lying tidal mudflat wetland will be lost.
The good news is that with relatively minor changes in infrastructure eventually removing some agricultural dikes, this kind of wetlands might actually double in current size. That's because without barriers like human development, the marshlands could slowly roll inland with the tide.
"The most important thing we can do now to save coastal wetlands," Mr. Dwyer said, " is to encourage coastal farmers not to develop their land."
The lands being reserved behind Nisqually are undeveloped and agricultural; they would be perfect for conversion were it not for one hitch: Interstate Highway 5. The highway essentially acts as a dike, keeping the saltwater from moving past it. But it is obviously more difficult to remove.
David Troutt, chairman of the Nisqually River Council, has already begun urging the Washington State Department of Transportation to elevate the highway to allow free tidal flows. This is not as much of a pipe dream as it sounds because the highway is increasingly flooded. And as the sea rises, presumably that problem will get worse.
For now, however, a spokesman for the department says the state has no plans to make such an investment.

        
A Fresh Take on Sea-Level Rise
        
Climate Change Drives Instability, U.N. Official Warns
        
World Bank Will Help Finance Carbon Markets
        
Explaining Norfolk's Creeping Tides
        
Roman Decadence and Rising Seas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); WETLANDS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); RIVERS (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (76%); MODELING & SIMULATION (75%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (75%); WILDLIFE (73%); OCEANS (70%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%) climate change; Global Warming; Nisqually National Wildlife Refuge; Nisqually watershed; rising seas; Agriculture; Infrastructure (Public Works); Land Use Policies; Wetlands; Ducks Unlimited; Pacific Northwestern States (US); Puget Sound; Washington (State); Politics and Policy; Science

ORGANIZATION: DUCKS UNLIMITED (91%) Ducks Unlimited

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (97%); NORTHWEST USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Pacific Northwestern States (US); Puget Sound; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



772 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Myth of the Pregnant Superwoman

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Who decides how much stress is too much during a pregnancy?

 BODY:
A first worry of pregnant women (at least based on the unofficial measure of how often it comes up in Motherlode comments) appears to be what they eat, how much weight they gain, and how it affects their developing child.
A second worry, it seems, is worrying itself. Chapter Three of this month's Motherlode Book Club, "Origins: How the Nine Months Before Birth Shape the Rest of Our Lives," is about stress and worry, and the effects on a fetus.
There is a lot of scientific evidence in the chapter -- about how mothers who were pregnant during such stressors as 9/11; or the Holocaust; or the Northridge, Calif., earthquake; or the ice storm that paralyzed Canada; or Hurricane Katrina; or the Arab-Israeli Six Day War, gave birth to children who showed cognitive, developmental, physical, hormonal and emotional differences from birth.
And there's evidence of how the right amount of stress -- a "moderate level" of stress -- is actually helpful to fetal development, leading to babies with more active brains. Up on the list of every day stressors, of course, is work. As the author Annie Murphy Paul notes:
More than two-thirds of American pregnant women work, most of them full time, according to the most recent figures from the U.S. Census Bureau. Of those who are employed, 80 percent are still at their jobs in the last month before birth; in the early 1960s that number was only 35 percent.
In the middle of all these studies, Ms. Paul raises a central legal, practical and philosophical question: Who decides what to about these findings. The question of whether women workers, pregnant or not, deserve different accommodations from men has been debated all the way up to the Supreme Court for much of this century. Early on, the justices saw those laws as protecting women. As Justice Louis Brandeis wrote, making a most unfortunate comparison between a woman and a barnyard animal: 
Does anybody doubt that the only way you can get work out of a horse is to feed the horse properly? Does anyone doubt that the only way you can get hens to lay is to feed hens properly? Experience has taught us that harsh language addressed to a cow impairs her usefulness. Are women less sensitive than beasts in these respects?
Over time, though, the pendulum moved and workers themselves chafed at many "protections." When a car battery manufacturer refused to allow women to do certain jobs unless they had a doctor's note stating they were infertile, on the grounds that lead exposure could harm a fetus, employees sued, and Justice Harry Blackmun wrote:
Concern for a woman's existing or potential offspring historically has been the excuse for denying women equal employment opportunities. It is no more appropriate for the courts than it is for individual employers to decide whether a woman's reproductive role is more important to herself and her family than her economic role. That choice is hers to make.
That settled the question of a pregnant (or fertile) woman's legal right to work, Ms. Paul concludes, but left "the cultural debate about women's activities and ambitions during pregnancy as active as ever." As she writes:
I know I don't want Supreme Court justices, or even psychologists and public health experts to tell me how hard I should be working while pregnant. I have no desire to return to the stifling prohibitions of the Victorian age, or the paternalistic protections of the Progressive Era. And yet it seems to me that, in our own time, pregnancy comes with a set of expectations that is oppressive in its own way. Women today are given to understand that pregnancy should not slow them down in the slightest; at the same time they're barraged with warnings that too much stress could harm their fetuses. ... That's a lot of cultural baggage to bear, at a time when women have enough additional weight to carry. I find myself daydreaming about a pregnancy free of these burdens, concerned only with the optimal experience of woman and fetus. What would such a pregnancy look like?
She goes on to answer the question for herself. Her vision includes some work, but not to excess, yoga and naps, and lots of leaning on friends. Instead, she writes, today's women have bought into the myth of "the Pregnant Superwoman," one who
reassures us with her cheerful invulnerability, her bulletproof resistance to all the changes -- physical, emotional and logistical -- that come along with having a child. Her fearless independence allows us to evade the fact that pregnancy and child-rearing make us more dependent on others, in the heat of a disaster and in the heart of everyday life.
What would your "burden-free pregnancy" look like? Is a pregnancy like that possible nowadays? Were you a "Pregnant Superwoman"? (Or do you know one?) Did society create that monster, or women themselves?

        
Stable Enough for a Pregnancy? 
        
A Baby With Three Mothers
        
Removing Obese Children From Their Parents
        
Losing Three Children, Starting Again
        
Pregnancy as Art

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); CHILDREN (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); WOMEN (78%); PARENTING (75%); MAMMALS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); WRITERS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); ANIMALS (61%); CENSUS (52%); BATTERY MFG (50%) book club; Pregnancy; Stress; Discrimination; Labor and Jobs; Parenting; Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Motherlode Book Club

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



773 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Blackstone Profit More Than Triples

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The Blackstone Group's second-quarter profit was bolstered again by its huge real estate operations as the market for commercial property continued to improve.

 BODY:
7:33 p.m. | Updated 
The Blackstone Group said Thursday that its profit more than tripled in the second quarter, bolstered once again by its huge real estate operations as the market for commercial property continued to improve.
"Despite the challenges presented by slowing global economic growth, over all our portfolio companies and real estate investments performed well in the second quarter," Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of Blackstone, said in a statement.
The private equity firm reported a profit of $703.3 million, or 63 cents a share, in the latest quarter, compared with a profit of $205.2 million, or 18 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Blackstone reports its profit as economic net income after taxes, which excludes charges tied to the firm's initial public offering in 2007.
Those results exceeded analysts' expectations of a profit of 33 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
On a generally accepted accounting principles basis, Blackstone earned $86 million in the second quarter, in contrast to a loss of $193 million a year earlier.
Over all, Blackstone's revenue more than doubled in the quarter, to $1.3 billion, up from $550 million in the 2010 period.
Most of Blackstone's businesses continued to grow as the outlook for private equity brightened. According to Blackstone, the value of its holdings increased 9 percent in the quarter, with the company getting a lift in part from the public offerings of two portfolio companies, Kosmos and Vanguard. Revenue for the division increased to $399.4 million, from $83.9 million a year earlier.
The real estate group was a standout performer, as Blackstone bought the United States assets of the shopping mall operator Centro. The group recorded revenue of $648.5 million for the quarter, up from $208.5 million a year earlier.
Still, Blackstone is struggling in its smaller advisory business, despite the strength of the deal-making environment. Revenue for the division fell to $104.4 million from $135.6 million a year earlier.
Shares of Blackstone rose 74 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $17 on Thursday.

        
Court Revives Suit Over Blackstone I.P.O.
        
Graham Packaging Clinches $4.5 Billion Sale

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (71%); RETAILERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (56%); ACCOUNTING (53%) Blackstone; Centro; Kosmos; Stephen Schwarzman; Vanguard; Financial Services; Private Equity

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); GRAHAM PACKAGING CO INC (58%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS326112 PLASTICS PACKAGING FILM & SHEET (INCLUDING LAMINATED) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS326111 PLASTICS BAG & POUCH MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3085 PLASTICS BOTTLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



774 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Express Scripts to Buy Medco for $29.1 Billion | Express Scripts said on Thursday that it would buy Medco Health Solutions for $29.1 billion, becoming the biggest pharmacy benefits manager in the country in one of the largest deals of the year.
Express Scripts will pay $28.80 in cash and 0.81 of an Express Scripts share for each Medco share, valuing the deal at $71.36 a share, about 28 percent above Medco's closing price on Wednesday.
But the prospects for the deal seem uncertain. The takeover is sure to invite close regulatory scrutiny. CVS Caremark -- a merger that Express Scripts failed to prevent -- has faced nearly nonstop criticism since it the merger deal completed.DEALBOOK | PRESS RELEASE
Morgan Stanley's Posts $558 Million Loss, but Beats Estimates | Morgan Stanley reported a $558 million loss for the second quarter on Thursday, one that was smaller than analysts had expected, as its trading operations improved.
The firm reported a loss of 38 cents a share loss, while analysts had expected a loss of 61 cents a share.
Morgan Stanley took a one-time charge related to restructuring an investment in the bank made by the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group as part of a lifeline during the financial crisis.DEALBOOK | PRESS RELEASE
DEAL NOTES
Danielle Chiesi's Day in Court | Danielle Chiesi, one of the central figures in the insider trading investigation into the Galleon Group hedge fund, was sentenced on Wednesday to 30 months in prison. DealBook's Ben Protess reports.DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
BC Partners Said to Be Near Deal for Swedish Cable Company | BC Partners is near a deal to buy Com Hem, the biggest cable company in Sweden, from the Carlyle Group and Providence Equity Partners for about $2.6 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter told DealBook.DealBook 
Blackstone to Buy Jack Wolfskin for $995 Million | The Blackstone Group will buy Jack Wolfskin, a German outdoor retailer, from Barclays Private Equity and Quadriga Capital for what news outlets said was $995 million. The American buyout firm is expected to continue expanding Jack Wolfskin's presence in Scandinavia and Eastern Europe, as well as China.PRESS RELEASE | FINANCIAL TIMES | REUTERS
Randstad to Buy SFN for $709.8 Million | Randstad Holding, the global temporary employment services company, will buy the SFN Group for $709.8 million in cash to expand its human resource offerings in the United States.DealBook 
Mizuho Plans to Buy Stake in Vietnamese Bank | Mizuho Financial Group, the Japanese bank, is said to be planning to buy a stake in Vietnam's largest public lender for as much as $760 million, Bloomberg News reports.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Nexstar Broadcasting Said to Be on the Block | The television station owner Nexstar has hired a financial adviser to aid in a sale that could fetch as much as $1 billion, people familiar with the matter told The Wall Street Journal.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Canada Growing Dubious About International Investment | Debate is raging across Canada over how big a role foreign investment should play in the country's resource-rich economy, with the nation's 13 provinces and territories rather than the federal government leading the discussion. Two major deal failures -- BHP Billiton's attempted takeover of the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and the merger plan of the London Stock Exchange and the TMX group -- are a sign of the times.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Acer to Buy Cloud Computing Firm | Acer, the largest PC maker after Hewlett-Packard, said on Thursday that it would buy the cloud computing firm iGware for $320 million, the latest move in an industrywide shift away from desktops and toward applications running remotely.REUTERS 
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Wells Fargo to Pay $85 Million Mortgage Settlement | Wells Fargo is set to pay $85 million in a settlement with the Federal Reserve over charges that its employees pushed clients toward more expensive subprime mortgages during the real estate boom.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE 
Taxing Europe's Banks to Help Greece | Europe's banks may face a new tax to help pay for the forthcoming Greek rescue, an official told The New York Times. Institutions would pay an additional .025 percent on assets, a levy that would raise about 50 billion euros over five years to finance a buyback of Greek bonds.NEW YORK TIMES 
RBS Executive Acknowledges Tough Bond Markets | Just a few days before Royal Bank of Scotland announces its second-quarter earnings, John Hourican, chief executive of the firm's global banking and markets business, has already come forward to warn of continued bond market perils.
"It wouldn't surprise you to note that the entire fixed-income markets are more challenged in the second quarter than they were in the first, and we will be representing that trend," Mr. Hourican said of the upcoming results.REUTERS 
Austerity Banking | Banks in the United States are doing what they can to cut down on overhead -- shutting down branches that are not pulling their weight, and moving operations to less expensive locations -- as they try to claw back ground in difficult times.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Berkshire Said to Raise Bigger Fund | Berkshire Partners has raised 50 percent more than expected for its latest fund, closing it at $4.5 billion, Bloomberg News reported, citing unidentified sources. The private equity firm's seven previous funds totaled $6.5 billion.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Quizno's Feels Heat of Debt Problems | Saddled with debt from a leveraged buyout five years ago, wounded by the recession and suffering in a competitive market, the sandwich chain Quiznos has been forced to tell its lenders it will soon violate loan terms, putting it in danger of default.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
HEDGE FUNDS 
Christie Finds Friends in the Hedges | Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has apparently made new friends in the hedge fund industry. The governor told a group that included Paul Tudor Jones and Stanley Druckenmiller that while he did not expect to run for president next year, he might do so in 2016, according to Politico.
The group of donors, gathered by Kenneth Langone, complained that they were "severely disappointed" by what they said was President Obama's "class warfare."POLITICO 
New Asian Hedge Funds Raise $2.86 Billion in First Half of 2011 | Signs are good for the industry in Asia, with inflows for the 24 new funds that opened in the region during the first half of 2011 attracting twice the amount taken in by the 70 funds established in the first half of 2010.FINALTERNATIVES 
British Regulator Investigating Castlestone | Britain's Financial Services Authority has opened an investigation into Angus Murray's Castlestone Management that is believed to focus on the firm's Ucits funds, which are based in Ireland.HEDGE FUNDS REVIEW 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Santander Said to Delay I.P.O. of British Unit | The British unit of Banco Santander of Spain is expected to put off its initial public offering in the country until early 2012, despite the assurances last month of the chief executive, Alfredo Saenz, who said that taking the unit public this year was "a priority," a person familiar with the matter told Dow Jones.
Santander UK's chief, Ana Patricia Botin, had already emphasized in an interview with the BBC this month that the timing of such a move was crucial and that "right now is probably not the best time."WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Indian Lender Sets I.P.O. Price | L&T Finance Holdings, a nonbank lender, has set an indicative price of 51 to 59 rupees a share for its initial public offering, hoping to raise up to $280 million.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Strong Debut in Malaysia | Shares of the oil and gas vessel supplier Bumi Armada, which conducted the largest I.P.O. in Malaysia this year by raising $889 million, surged on their first day of trading.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Twitter Said Near a New $400 Million Round | Twitter is close to closing on a fresh $400 million fund-raising round that will be used to cash out current investors and employees, All Things Digital reported on Wednesday. That round would follow a $400 million round that would value the company at $8 billion, as previously reported by DealBook.
Meanwhile, Twitter's chairman, Jack Dorsey, is showing the door to four product managers at the microblogger who were close to the recently departed co-founders, Evan Williams and Biz Stone, according to TechCrunch.ALL THINGS DIGITAL | DEALBOOK | TECHCRUNCH 
Money to Be Made in Tech at All Levels | MyYearbook, a social networking site founded by three New Jersey siblings in 2005, has recently been sold for $100 million to a Latino-focused social network, the Quepasa Corporation, a healthy reminder that bellow the Zuckerberg-dominated stratosphere there is still money to be made in tech.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Will This Start-up Survive? | Yowie connects performers and their fans through live video chats, and it has established ties with Disney and Dreamworks after raising $2.1 million -- but it has no revenue stream.NEW YORK TIMES 
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
In Shadow of Debt Crisis, Firms Draw Up Plan B | Even as politicians seemed closer to a debt compromise in Washington, large investment firms have made contingency plans on their Treasury bond holdings. They are poised to save their money, and in some cases make more, in the event of a crisis, The New York Times reports.DealBook 
Red Flags Over China Real Estate | China is taking steps to curb risk in its real estate sector, with regulators pledging to increase oversight amid international fears of a property bubble. The problem was also red-flagged by the I.M.F. on Wednesday, although the country's elevated inflation rate is expected to peak within the next couple of months.REUTERS | BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); MERGERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); PHARMACIES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); SENTENCING (70%); LITIGATION (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); INSIDER TRADING (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: EXPRESS SCRIPTS HOLDING CO (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (84%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (82%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (72%); RANDSTAD HOLDING NV (62%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (55%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%); MIZUHO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (50%); NEXSTAR BROADCASTING GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: ESRX (NASDAQ) (92%); MS (NYSE) (84%); CVS (NYSE) (84%); MTU (NYSE) (82%); 8306 (TSE) (82%); BX (NYSE) (72%); RAND (AMS) (62%); CG (NASDAQ) (55%); MFG (NYSE) (50%); 8411 (TSE) (50%); NXST (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (84%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (62%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (62%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (62%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (58%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); VIET NAM (66%); GERMANY (52%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



775 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Shares of Express Scripts and Medco Jump on Deal News

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Investors and analysts applauded Express Scripts' proposed takeover of Medco Health Solutions, pushing shares in both companies up significantly on Thursday.

 BODY:
4:17 p.m. | Updated 
The $29 billion combination of Express Scripts and Medco Health Solutions may draw tough antitrust scrutiny. But investors appear to be big fans anyway.
The stock prices of both companies jumped on Thursday as investors appear pleased with the prospect of a new giant in the drug benefits management sector.
Shares in Medco climbed 14.4 percent to close at $63.83 on Thursday. Shares in Express Scripts also rose, gaining 5.4 percent to $55.36.
A rise in a buyer's stock price has become somewhat more common this year, as shareholders have been quicker to reward acquirers for seeking new ways to grow. While the norm for mergers is for the buyer's shares to fall, companies have instead benefited from putting their strong balance sheets and healthy stock prices to productive use.
Some analysts also gave the deal high marks for now, especially given the companies' promises of at least $1 billion in cost savings. The combination would help Medco at an opportune time, having lost clients like UnitedHealth and the California pension fund Calpers over the past year. Medco also lost theFederal Employees Program lost to CVS Caremark.
Shares in Medco had risen just 4.6 percent in the 12 months through Wednesday.
"P.B.M. managers, particularly those by Express Scripts, have proven to be consistently value-creating, given the economies of scale they create," analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote in a research note on Thursday. "The timing is right for MHS, which has lost large FEP and UnitedHealth relationships and struggled more with strategic direction."
Analysts at Leerink Swann concurred. In keeping an "outperform" rating on Express Scripts' stock, they wrote: "Despite the size, we view the deal positively, and believe that significant synergies can be realized in terms of both costs and sales."
And analysts at Jefferies & Company wrote in their own note: "This transaction satisfies investors who have been questioning Express Scripts' long-term strategy post-generics. It also removes worry about Medco's loss of purchasing scale as a result of the UnitedHealth contract loss, which represents 20 million lives."

        
In Express Scripts-Medco Deal, a Bonanza for Advisers
        
Express Scripts to Buy Medco for $29 Billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); MERGERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (72%) Express Scripts; Medco Health Solutions Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Express Scripts Inc; Express Scripts Inc|ESRX|NASDAQ; Medco Health Solutions Inc|MHS|NYSE; Healthcare; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (68%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (64%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Express Scripts Inc; Medco Health Solutions Inc

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (68%) Express Scripts Inc; ESRX; NASDAQ; Express Scripts Inc; ESRX; NASDAQ; Medco Health Solutions Inc; MHS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (68%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (68%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



776 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Charge-Level Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Toyota sets sales goals for its plug-in Prius, Nissan plans to build electric motors in Tennessee and AAA shows off its E.V. roadside-assistance truck.

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Toyota expects to sell 16,000 to 17,000 of its coming Prius plug-in hybrid in the United States in its introductory year, said John Hanson, a brand spokesman, in an interview with The Detroit Free Press. The car, which already is available for members of Zipcar to rent in select markets, achieves 13 miles of purely electric range before its parallel gas-electric hybrid system begins to operate. General Motors set a similar sales goal in May of 16,000 units for its Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid in this, its introductory year. (The Detroit Free Press)
 AMG, the in-house performance division of Mercedes-Benz, has revised its 5.5-liter V-8 engine for use in the SLK 55 AMG roadster, which is scheduled to have its debut at the Frankfurt auto show in September. The power plant is fitted with a cylinder shut-off system, in the manner of Chrysler's Hemi V-8s, which cuts fuel delivery to four cylinders during highway cruising. The feature improves fuel economy by 30 percent over the previous version of the engine, Mercedes claims. In its SLK 55 AMG application, the engine produces 415 horsepower and 398 pound-feet of torque. (Mercedes-Benz)
 Reporters at a Fox affiliate in Detroit recently filmed workers allegedly employed by a Chrysler engine plant in Trenton, Mich., drinking beer and smoking marijuana on their lunch breaks and prior to their shifts in the parking lot of the local United Auto Workers union headquarters. Scott R. Garberding, a senior vice president of manufacturing at Chrysler, said in the report that he was "both hurt and angered" by the workers' actions. In Sept. 2010, the affiliate filmed workers at Chrysler's Jefferson North plant drinking during their lunch breaks. Chrysler fired 13 workers and suspended two others involved in the 2010 incident. (Edmunds)
 Nissan announced Wednesday that electric motors for its Leaf electric car and subsequent E.V.'s assembled in the United States would be produced at its powertrain plant in Decherd, Tenn. The automaker, with loan funding from the Energy Department, is adding a new assembly line at the plant, roughly 75 miles south of Smyrna, Tenn., where Nissan intends to shift production of the Leaf for the North American market. The brand claims that the Decherd assembly line would be capable of producing 150,000 electric motors annually. (Nissan)
 In Raleigh, N.C., at the Plug-In 2011 conference, the American Automobile Association unveiled its first service truck equipped to offer roadside assistance for owners of E.V.'s. The truck is equipped with a removable lithium-ion battery pack, but subsequent models may be equipped with generators burning alternative fuels, AAA said in a statement. As Wheels reported in June, the trucks are intended to provide just enough power for an E.V. owner to reach a charging station. (AAA)

        
G.M., Ford and Kia Lead Nominees for Car of the Year
        
Auto Clubs Prepare Support Systems for E.V. Owners
        
Monday Motorsports: Franchitti and Power Deadlocked Atop IndyCar Leader Board
        
Chevrolet Volt and Nissan Leaf Earn Top Marks in First U.S. Crash Tests
        
Chris Paine Stages a Discussion of the Electric Car's Future at the Tribeca Film Festival

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ROADSIDE SERVICES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); CANNABIS (73%); TRADE SHOWS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); NETWORK TELEVISION (68%); MOTOR VEHICLE POWER TRAIN MFG (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (62%) aaa; AMG; Chevrolet Volt; Chrysler; Frankfurt Auto Show; Mercedes-Benz; Nissan Leaf; Toyota Prius plug-in hybrid; uaw; Automobiles; American Automobile Assn; Chrysler LLC; Energy Department; General Motors; Nissan Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp; United Automobile Workers; ZipCar; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Toyota Motor Corp|TM|NYSE; Electric Vehicles; Industry News; New Cars; Technology

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (85%); ZIPCAR INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: American Automobile Assn; Chrysler LLC; Energy Department; General Motors; Mercedes-Benz; Nissan Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp; United Automobile Workers; ZipCar

TICKER: ZIP (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%) General Motors; GM; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE; Toyota Motor Corp; TM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (85%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (85%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (85%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



777 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Are Unsellable Homes Holding Back Job Growth?

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A new study says no, since the rate of migration for homeowners and renters fell roughly in tandem during the recession.

 BODY:
Many economists have argued that the continually deteriorating housing market may be holding workers back from relocating to areas where jobs are more plentiful. If you can't sell your home in Detroit, where the unemployment rate is 11.6 percent, you're not able to move to Fargo, where the rate is a mere 3.5 percent. That creates a geographic mismatch in the labor market, and keeps job growth lower than it might otherwise be if workers were more mobile.
A new study from researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago calls this assumption into question.
The researchers looked at Census data on state-to-state migration patterns through the summer of 2010, paying special attention to migration of renters versus homeowners. Homeowners always have lower migration rates than renters, but if "house lock" was unusually problematic in recent years, you would expect that the two migration rates would move in opposite directions; homeowners would move less than they usually do, while renters would continue moving at the same rate as they do during a normal economy, or even faster.
The researchers found, however, that homeowner migration rates moved roughly in tandem with renter migration rates during the recession and early recovery:The chart above shows that both renter migration rates and homeowner migration rates fell from the beginning of the recession to the end of the recession, and both have subsequently nudged back up to near their respective prerecession levels.
The authors also found that states with unusually bad housing busts did not have appreciably lower emigration rates, either. They concluded:[S]tate-to-state migration rates among homeowners fell roughly in line with those of renters during the latest recession and early recovery period and roughly in line with previous recessions. Moreover, there is little evidence that migration varied based on the magnitude of a state's recent house price decline or the employment status of the household head. Given our findings and the significant amount of other current evidence, we conclude that there is little empirical evidence that house lock has been an important driver of the recent high unemployment rate.That's not to say worker-job mismatch is totally absent. While economists generally agree that the jobs crisis is primarily cyclical -- that is, related to temporarily low demand -- there are reasons to believe that at least some of the problem is structural.
A paper from another regional Fed -- the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco -- presents one model for breaking down today's unemployment into cyclical and structural categories.

        
What We're Reading: The Bubble That Wasn't
        
What Are They Building?
        
C.E.O. of the U.S.A., Part 2
        
Why Hasn't Employment of the Elderly Fallen?
        
Consumer Spending: The Chicken or the Egg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); CENSUS (56%) Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago; Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco; housing; jobs; Economic Conditions and Trends; Housing and Real Estate; Labor and Jobs

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



778 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; food

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Eurofile | Istanbul's Latest Hot Table

BYLINE: ALEXANDER LOBRANO


HIGHLIGHT: As an economic boom continues in the Turkish capital, inventive local cooking is on the rise.

 BODY:
Among the world's great kitchens, Turkish cooking may be more mauled than even Mexican when cooked off its home turf. Nearly every major city in the world has a mediocre kebab stand that is a sad substitute for the brilliantly regional cuisines of Turkey. This is why I always show up in Istanbul with a carefully plotted meal plan - the dearth of really good Turkish restaurants outside of Turkey means there are just so many dishes I don't want to miss eating again before I go home.
Most of the places on my standing list, including Zubeyir Ocakbay (Bekar Sokak 28; 011-90-212-293-3951), Ciya Sofrasi (Caferaga Mah Guneslibache Sk. No.43; 011-90-261-330-3190) and Hunkar (Mim Kemal Oke Caddesi 21; 011-90-212-225-4665), are simple spots serving terrific traditional Turkish food. (Hunkar actually specializes in Ottoman cooking.). But since the city's restaurant scene has boomed - a reflection of the thriving Turkish economy - several local chefs have opened up places that serve inventive contemporary Turkish cooking to sophisticated younger Istanbulers who want food that's local but light and healthy and offered up in a stylish setting. Many of these new takes on the Turkish kitchen are unfortunately also pricey, tourist-oriented spots where you're paying a premium for a view.
A year ago, however, the chef Didem Senol, who studied at New York's French Culinary Institute, opened Lokanta Maya (Kemankes Caddesi No.35/A; 011-90-212-252-6884), a strikingly good-looking contemporary Turkish table in the Karakoy neighborhood. It's since become not only one of the hippest and most popular spots in town but a delicious template for a new style of Istanbul restaurant, one with an indigenous but modern menu, excellent service and seriously good food. Eager to try it on a recent trip, I could only score a seat at the service bar on a busy Friday night - putting me more or less in the staff's way - but a terrific waiter nonetheless took the time to explain the entire menu. It's an appealing mix of Turkish and eastern Mediterranean dishes mostly made with organic produce and showcasing Senol's vast knowledge of regional Turkish cuisine and her passion for the cooking of the Aegean coast.
My meal began with Cypriot halloumi cheese grilled inside of grape leaves and served with a garden chutney of sliced scallions, crushed roasted hazelnuts, cucumber and tomato. Next, crispy golden zucchini fritters came cooked in hazelnut oil and served with minted yogurt dip. Both starters were excellent, and during the pause that proceeded my main course I sipped a pleasant Turkish Umurbey sauvignon blanc by the glass and watched the restaurant fill up with a handsome, mostly local crowd who filled the Danish-modern-inspired tables and eyeballed the wall covering of walnuts inside of chicken wire. When it arrived, my slow-roasted lamb was succulent, spoon tender and served on bed of rice pilaf bright with sumac berries, currants, Turkish cranberries and pine nuts.
Concluding with a mastic-gum pudding under a red-berry coulis, I couldn't help but think that if the New York restaurateur Danny Meyer were to do a Turkish restaurant it would look and taste a lot like Lokanta Maya. I liked this place so much, in fact, that I wasn't disappointed the following night when Turkish friends picked me up to take me to a wonderful new restaurant for dinner and, well, guess where I ended up? This time I got to try the caramelized sea bass with oranges that I'd been eyeing as a main course when the waiter suggested the lamb. As it turns out, both are superb.

        
Euro Zone | Istanbul on the Upswing 
        
Gift Horse 
        
In Pictures | Stefan Ruiz's Istanbul
        
Sandra's Sources | Sofa Arts and Antiques
        
Just Do It | Tackle the Turkey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (64%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (62%) Ciya Sofrasi; Hunkar; istanbul; Lokanta Maya; turkey; Zubeyir Ocakbay; Food; Travel

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); ANKARA, TURKEY (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TURKEY (98%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CYPRUS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011



779 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Banks With Consistently Generous Savings Account Rates

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Some banks are offering at least 1 percent on your savings.

 BODY:
Rates on savings and money market accounts aren't blowing anyone's socks off these days. But there are some banks where you can at least eke out a roughly 1 percent interest rate.
A quarterly survey by MoneyRates.com, called "America's Best Rates," shows that some banks consistently offer higher yields. The second quarter's list of the top 10 money market rates, for instance, includes nine banks that have made the list for three quarters in a row. The list aims to identify banks that have decent rates on a continuing basis, rather than as a short-term marketing promotion.
Rates on savings accounts fell for the third consecutive quarter, while rates on money market accounts rebounded a bit after falling in the first quarter. But all the rates at banks on the list beat the national average savings account rate of 0.25 percent, and the national average money market account rate of 0.29 percent, as reported by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The top 10 banks offering consistently high savings accounts rates (by annual percentage yield) during the second quarter of 2011 were:
1. Discover Bank - 1.16 percent2. American Express - 1.13 percent3. Capital One Bank - 1.10 percent4.(tie) Ally Bank - 1.01 percent4.(tie) Zions Bank - 1.01 percent6. ING Direct - 1.00 percent7. Cashmere Valley Bank - 0.95 percent8. One West Bank - 0.89 percent9. Mile High Banks - 0.88 percent10. Allstate Bank - 0.70 percent
The top 10 banks for money market account rates (by APY) were:
1. Hudson City Bank - 1.15 percent2. Discover Bank - 1.06 percent3. (tie) Ally Bank - 1.01 percent3. (tie) One West Bank - 1.01 percent3. (tie) Zions Bank - 1.01 percent6. AIG Bank - 1.00 percent7. Mile High Banks - 0.95 percent8. State Farm Bank - 0.78 percent9. (tie) Capital One Bank - 0.75 percent9. (tie) Think Mutual Bank - 0.75 percent
To come up with the quarterly list, Moneyrates.com surveys the 50 largest banks by deposit amount in the United States, as well as 25 banks above and 25 banks below the mean deposit for American banks, to get a geographic cross section.
How does the rate on your savings or money market account compare with those on the list?

        
Goodbye, Paper Savings Bonds
        
Capital One's Response to Outrage Over ING Direct Purchase
        
SmartyPig Cuts Interest Rates Yet Again
        
Banks Where You Can Still Count Your Change
        
SmartyPig Cuts Interest Rates...Again

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (93%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%) Savings Accounts; Banking and Financial Institutions; Interest Rates; Money Market Accounts; Savings

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (91%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); STATE FARM BANK FSB (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); ING BANK FSB (54%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (54%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (54%); ALLSTATE CORP (54%); CASHMERE VALLEY BANK (54%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (91%); INGA (AMS) (91%); ING (NYSE) (91%); COF (NYSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); ALL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



780 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: On Its First Day, Consumer Bureau Finds Support

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Consumer and liberal groups rally around the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as it formally opens for business, despite Republican complaints.

 BODY:
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau formally opened for business on Thursday, much to the consternation of Congressional Republicans.
But as conservative lawmakers step up their attacks on the new regulator, aiming to undermine its structure and authority, champions of the bureau are pushing back.
Consumer groups released a new opinion poll this week that showed broad public support for the bureau. And on Thursday, advocacy organizations issued a report detailing "ten reasons we need the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau now." 
The reasons boil down to a widespread lack of confidence in other regulatory agencies, which "manifestly failed to address" consumer protection problems in the run-up to the financial crisis, according to the report. The problems included "unchecked predatory" mortgages, the "lack of consumer legal rights" and "private student loan rip-offs."
"Congress shouldn't forget that a lack of consumer protection led to the Wall Street-led collapse of the economy and only a consumer cop on the beat can protect consumers from it happening again," Ed Mierzwinski, the report's author and the consumer program director of the U.S. Public Interest Research Groups, said in a statement. "This report is particularly timely because there are serious efforts to undermine the C.F.P.B. on Capitol Hill."
The Republican criticism has centered on the consumer bureau's power and its leadership. The Republican-controlled House has introduced measures to slash the bureau's budget and subject it to greater Congressional oversight. Now that President Obama has nominated Richard Cordray to lead the bureau, Republicans attempts to derail his nomination are already in motion. 
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was a chief component of the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law, enacted a year ago Thursday. While the bureau opened last year, it did not officially inherit its broad new authority until the first anniversary of the law. The bureau can now write new rules for Wall Street, examine the books of some 110 banks and issue enforcement actions. 
"This agency is ready to be a cop on the beat for American families -- and I couldn't be prouder," said Elizabeth Warren, the Obama administration official charged with setting up the bureau. 
On Thursday, the bureau sent "introductory letters" to bank chief executives, outlining its plans to supervise and examine their financial institutions. The bureau also revamped its Web site, where consumers can now file complaints about their credit cards. 
"Today is an important day for consumers," Lisa Donner, executive director of Americans for Financial Reform, said in a statement. "The C.F.P.B. will level the playing field for families, making the consumer credit market work for borrowers and lenders alike and making the whole economy safer."
Recent poll results suggest that consumers agree. The poll, conducted by Lake Research Partners, a Democratic polling group, and backed by an array of progressive groups, found that nearly three-quarters of people surveyed support the bureau. 
"Everyday Americans know what's good for their pocketbooks, their families, and our economy - that's why a large, bipartisan majority is calling for financial reforms to take effect," Mike Calhoun, president of the Center for Responsible Lending, said in a statement about the poll. "Let's hope policymakers hear them loud and clear."
 Consumer Bureau's Letter to Bankers

        
Wall Street's Newest Regulator a Longtime Foe
        
Director or No, Wall Street's Newest Cop Is Ready for Duty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (93%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (92%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PREDATORY LENDING (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (69%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); WRITERS (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Americans for Financial Reform; Center for Responsible Lending; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Dodd-Frank Act; Richard Cordray; U.S. Public Interest Research Groups; Cordray, Richard; Consumer Protection; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (94%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (85%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ELIZABETH WARREN (58%) Cordray, Richard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



781 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Dodd-Frank, One Year Later

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and MAC WILLIAM BISHOP


HIGHLIGHT: As the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law turned a year old on Thursday, Representative Barney Frank, the law's chief architect, came to its defense in a video interview with DealBook's Ben Protess.

 BODY:
As the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law turned a year old on Thursday, the law's chief architect came to its defense.
Representative Barney Frank, who was the co-author of the Dodd-Frank Act, says the law will help prevent a repeat of the financial crisis. He is worried, however, that Congressional Republicans will chip away at crucial components of the law, including new derivatives rules and tighter lending standards.
The Massachusetts Democrat recently sat down with DealBook in his Capitol Hill office to discuss the Republican attacks, Wall Street's complaints about being called "fat cats" and why Dodd-Frank was the biggest victory in his three-decade Congressional career.

        
Barney Frank, Financial Overhaul's Defender in Chief
        
G.O.P. Lawmakers Vote to Delay Derivatives Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (94%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (88%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Barney Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; Frank, Barney; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; House of Representatives; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; Video

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (99%) Frank, Barney

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



782 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: If It Were Hearst Instead of Murdoch ...

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: An earlier press baron probably would have handled the phone hacking and bribery scandal quite differently. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs.

 BODY:
Rupert Murdoch, who became a force to reckon with in this city when he bought The New York Post 35 years ago, is routinely compared to a news media titan of the past, William Randolph Hearst. Not that "news media" was a term in vogue in Hearst's heyday, the early decades of the 20th century. "Press baron" was more like it.
 But in important ways, the two men share the same journalistic DNA.
 Like Hearst, Mr. Murdoch has used his newspapers to promote the politicians he favors and punish the ones he scorns. As was the case with Hearst's papers, including The New York American and The New York Evening Journal, those owned by Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation have a curtain between the news-gathering and opinion-writing departments that can be exceedingly diaphanous. Like Hearst, Mr. Murdoch seeks to shape the world around him through his news outlets.
 And like Hearst, he has given the news business a thorough - some would say needed - shaking up, albeit at a price, in the form of accusations that he has "debauched journalism," to borrow a charge that H. L. Mencken aimed at Hearst. 
 Hearst was "the first publisher to understand that the communications media were potentially more powerful than the parties and their politicians," the historian David Nasaw has written. Much the same could be said of Mr. Murdoch.
 Mr. Nasaw, a professor at the City University of New York's Graduate Center, wrote those words in his acclaimed biography of Hearst, "The Chief," published by Houghton Mifflin in 2000.
 Out of curiosity, we sought his thoughts on W.W.W.R.D. - What Would William Randolph Do? How might Hearst have handled the phone hacking and bribery scandals in Britain that have shaken News Corporation to its core and threatened the government of Prime Minister David Cameron?
 Appearing on Tuesday before a parliamentary committee, Mr. Murdoch pronounced himself humbled by all that has happened, but he rejected any notion that he bore responsibility for misdeeds committed by newspapers under his dominion. The sins of his underlings could not be visited upon him, he said. The buck stopped elsewhere.
 That would have been an alien concept to Hearst, Mr. Nasaw said.
 "He made it clear that his newspapers were his newspapers, and he took responsibility for everything that was in them," the historian said, adding that Hearst "would have been able to defend himself by saying he was the people's tribune and that the people deserve to know what's going on."
 Not that Hearst should be mistaken for "a saint or a particularly moral human being," Mr. Nasaw said. Hardly. He and other press lords of his day "were perfectly capable and believed it their responsibility to use whatever means they could, including bribery and trickery, to get the news."
 But the gap in defining news is vast, he said. Mr. Murdoch's minions in Britain gleaned tidbits about people like a girl who was murdered or the son of former Prime Minister Gordon Brown, a boy with cystic fibrosis. Hearst's troops went after far bigger and more significant game, Mr. Nasaw said.
 As an example, he cited how Hearst's New York American paid two low-level Standard Oil employees to engage in a 1904 equivalent of phone hacking. They rummaged through desks and trash baskets to find letters that would show that the giant oil trust was bribing politicians.
 If Hearst had ever been hauled before a committee, Mr. Nasaw said, "he would have said, 'If the Senate policed its own members and reined in Standard Oil, I wouldn't have had to do this. So the fault is yours, not mine.' "
 "He would have taken absolute responsibility, and been proud to take responsibility," Mr. Nasaw continued, "because he wasn't reporting on Gordon Brown's child or the life of a girl or whatever other scandals have erupted."
 "Nothing would have made Hearst happier than to be given a seat before a parliamentary commission so he could explain why he did what he did, and condemn the government for making it necessary for him to do it."
Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.
In a scene reminiscent of "The Great Gatsby," former Schools Chancellor Cathleen P. Black crashed her sport utility vehicle into a tree in a driveway in the Hamptons after a party. Ms. Black and a passenger were unharmed. [New York Post] 
Al Qaeda made fun of former Representative Anthony D. Weiner in the latest edition of its online magazine "Inspire." [Daily News]
The Department of Health and Mental Hygiene warned swimmers and kayakers to stay out of the Hudson River after a four-alarm fire closed a Harlem waste treatment plant, leading the city to pump raw sewage into the river. [Daily News] (Also see The New York Post.)
A sewer collapse in Bedford-Stuyvesant led to a pervasive stench in parts of Brooklyn.
Sixty agents from various government agencies raided an 11-story building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, that had been divided into illegal residential lofts. [New York Post] 
Councilman David Greenfield of Brooklyn has proposed "Leiby's Law," which would allow businesses to designate themselves as havens for lost children. [Daily News]
New York's Democratic representatives were reported to have challenged the House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, because of the debt-limit agreement's proposed cuts to New York teaching hospitals. [New York Post]
Bankrate.com reports that New York has the highest mortgage closing costs of any state, a potential deterrent to would-be residents. [Gowanus Lounge]
Women from Astoria, Queens, are using a local social networking site to report and compare attacks from a bicycle-riding groper. [Daily News] 
The American Association for Nude Recreation wants to have part of Coney Island designated as a nude beach. [New York Post]
The rigger who erected a crane that fell and killed seven people in 2008 has been stripped of his license. [Daily News] (Also see DNA Info and The Wall Street Journal.)
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said he would be more open to considering medical marijuana for New York. [Daily News]
An insider's look at the hallowed Mets dugout. [Wall Street Journal]
Shake Shack has filed an application with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to open a location in Grand Central Terminal. [DNA Info]
A terrifying map of registered sex offenders in Brooklyn. [mcbrooklyn]

        
Remembering Wilbert A. Tatum of The Amsterdam News
        
Liberal Pranksters Hand Out Times Spoof
        
Dead-Tree Editions Sell Out, So Presses Roll Again
        
Murdoch's Journal Has Lead Role in Economic Meeting
        
Bloomberg, Term Limits and the Press

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); BRIBERY (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (89%); NEWS CORP PHONE HACKING SCANDAL (89%); SCANDALS (85%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) news media; Newspapers; Rupert Murdoch; William Randolph Hearst; Hearst, William Randolph; Murdoch, Rupert; News and News Media; News Corp; News Corp|NWSA|NASDAQ; The Day

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (92%); NEWS CORP (86%)

ORGANIZATION: News Corp

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (86%); NWS (ASX) (86%) News Corp; NWSA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (86%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (94%); DAVID CAMERON (69%) Hearst, William Randolph; Murdoch, Rupert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



783 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Government Sells Stake In Chrysler

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Ian Austen contributed reporting from Ottawa.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
DETROIT -- The federal government on Thursday shed the last of its stake in Chrysler, giving majority control of the carmaker to Fiat, the Italian company, while leaving taxpayers $1.3 billion short of recovering the full investment they made two years ago to keep Chrysler from going out of business.
The government had said in June that it expected to take that much of loss on its investment. But it has said that if it had not stepped in with a bailout and the company had been forced to shut down, the damage to the fragile economy would have been worse. 
At the time Chrysler filed for bankruptcy in 2009, its prospects for survival appeared grim, even with the government's help.
Still, the net loss on the Chrysler investment became political fodder over the terms of the federal bailout.
Representative Darrell E. Issa, Republican of California, said Thursday that the Obama administration ''has sold out an American icon to a foreign company,'' and is now ''essentially giving that same company $1.3 billion of taxpayer money.''
The Treasury Departmentsaid in a statement that it had recovered $11.2 billion of the $12.5 billion it lent to Chrysler and that it would write off the bulk of the balance. The unpaid portion is on the balance sheet of the ''old Chrysler'' -- a collection of unwanted assets being liquidated in bankruptcy.
As part of a previous agreement with the government, Fiat paid $500 million for the last of the Treasury's 6 percent stake in Chrysler. Fiat, which bought Chrysler after it emerged from bankruptcy, had the right of first refusal. Fiat said in May that it wanted to buy the stake, and the price was negotiated after that.
Fiat also paid $60 million for the Treasury's rights to buy additional Chrysler shares owned by a health care trust fund for retired members of the United Automobile Workers union, and $140 million for a smaller share owned by the Canadian government.
Chrysler, in a regulatory filing, said Fiat now owned 53.5 percent, on a fully diluted basis, of the carmaker, which returns to foreign ownership four years after its partnership with Daimler ended.
The union trust fund and Fiat, which has controlled Chrysler's operations through a minority stake purchased in 2009, are the only remaining shareholders in Chrysler.
Fiat has said it expects to gain an additional 5 percent stake in Chrysler by issuing new shares by the end of this year, which would, in effect, reduce the size of the U.A.W's stake in Chrysler. Sergio Marchionne, the chief executive of both Fiat and Chrysler, last week said he planned to merge the management of the two companies, which would then operate essentially as one.
Congressional leaders, particularly in districts heavily reliant on jobs in the auto industry, applauded the move.
''We've seen a dramatic turnaround that's not only great for Michigan but great for the country,'' Representative Gary Peters, a Democrat whose district includes Chrysler's sprawling headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich., said in an interview. ''It's hard to make the argument that this was not a good investment. It's a great investment for the taxpayers and the jobs that have been saved.''
Even though Chrysler is again controlled by an overseas owner, Representative Peters said, ''the important thing is the jobs in America.''
In May, Chrysler repaid $7.6 billion to the American and Canadian governments, satisfying its full obligations to the countries.
Chrysler earned $116 million in the first quarter, its first profit since 2006. It will report second-quarter results on Tuesday.
''With today's closing, the U.S. government has exited its investment in Chrysler at least six years earlier than expected,'' said Tim Massad, the Treasury's assistant secretary for financial stability. ''This is a major accomplishment and further evidence of the success of the administration's actions to assist the U.S. auto industry, which helped save a million jobs during the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.''
The government still owns 26 percent of General Motors, after selling about half of its G.M. shares in the company's November initial public offering. The Treasury is expected to begin selling more G.M. shares later this year, though they are currently worth about 11 percent less than the $33 offering price. To break even, the Treasury would need to sell its 500 million remaining shares at about $53 each.
A report in June by the White House National Economic Council estimated that the government would need to write off about $14 billion of the $80 billion given to the auto industry by the Bush and Obama administrations in late 2008 and early 2009.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about the sale of the government's stake in Chrysler misstated the process that Fiat, which now owns 53.5 percent of Chrysler, could use to acquire an additional 5 percent stake by the end of the year. That stake would be obtained by issuing new shares in Chrysler; it would not come from the United Automobile Workers union's health care trust fund. (Since Fiat and the union trust fund are the only remaining shareholders in the automaker, the issuance of the new shares would, in effect, reduce the size of the trust fund's stake in Chrysler).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sergio Marchionne, chief executive of Fiat and Chrysler, wants to merge management. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUIGI COSTANTINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (92%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); DARRELL E ISSA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011



784 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Read My Lips: No New Taxes

BYLINE: By GROVER G. NORQUIST. 
Grover G. Norquist is the president of Americans for Tax Reform.

 BODY:
Washington
THE Taxpayer Protection Pledge has received increased attention as the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the debt ceiling approaches. My organization, Americans for Tax Reform, created the pledge in 1986 as a simple, written commitment by a candidate or elected official that he or she will oppose, and vote against, tax increases. Over the years many candidates and elected officials have signed the pledge, including 236 current members of the House of Representatives and 41 current senators.
Nevertheless, there is some confusion these days about what the pledge does and doesn't mean, and numerous people have tried to reconfigure its intent to somehow allow its signatories to support tax increases. But in fact the pledge has not changed -- indeed, fiscal conservatives must stick to their commitment to oppose tax increases and fight to reduce the size of the federal government. 
There have been four main challenges to the pledge and what it means. The first is to charge that it gets in the way of a deal to allow a debt ceiling increase. But that's not the case at all. John A. Boehner, the speaker of the House, has repeatedly stated that the House would grant the president a debt ceiling increase of $2.5 trillion if Mr. Obama would sign a deal to reduce government spending from his planned levels by the same amount or more.
The problem to be solved is not the deficit; it is overspending. Federal spending in the 2008 fiscal year was $2.9 trillion, and Washington will now spend $3.8 trillion in the fiscal year that ends on Sept. 30. Raising taxes is what politicians do instead of reforming and reducing the cost of government. Advocates of larger government prefer to talk about deficits rather than spending. Why? Because there are two solutions to a deficit problem: spend less or raise taxes. The issue, in other words, isn't the pledge; it's Washington's inability to deal with its own overspending. There is only one fix for a spending problem: spend less.
Another challenge has been to suggest that members of Congress had somehow made a pledge to Americans for Tax Reform, or even to me personally, and that therefore it should be no big deal if they broke their commitments. Nonsense. The pledge clearly states that the commitment is to the people of their states and the nation. During the last election cycle those people elected a majority of the House who have made this commitment to their constituents.
Others have tried to redefine ''tax increase,'' specifically by arguing that eliminating a tax credit, exclusion or deduction in order to rake in more tax revenue should not count as a tax hike. The theory is that any dollar the government failed to take from you in taxes had in fact been given to you in a spending program. By this reasoning, the deduction-killing Alternative Minimum Tax is not a tax hike -- a cruel joke on the millions of Americans who get hit by it every year. When a mugger passes you on the street leaving you unmolested, he did not in fact give you your wallet.
Finally, there has been much confusion -- some of it my fault -- over whether the ending of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts or the A.M.T. ''patches,'' scheduled for Dec. 31, 2012, should count as a tax hike. If they are ended, the government will take in nearly $4 trillion more over the next decade than if they remain.
My position, and the implications of the pledge regarding such ''temporary'' tax cuts, is clear. If there were no vote in Congress and taxes rose automatically, then no politicians would have voted for higher taxes and no elected official would have broken his or her pledge.
But that is different from supporting a plan by some Democrats that would end some or all of these lower tax rates, higher per-child tax credits and the A.M.T. patches -- policies that, by the way, Congress has extended repeatedly with bipartisan support. It is difficult to see how such a package would fail to violate the Taxpayer Protection Pledge. Contrary to the hopes of some that I am somehow softening the pledge, it is stronger and more important than ever: it has made it easier for members of Congress to credibly commit to voters that they will refuse to increase taxes and instead focus on reducing the cost of government.
But ultimately, the pledge is only one expression of the Republicans' commitment to shrinking the size of the federal government. The Republican leaders -- Mr. Boehner, Representative Eric Cantor, Senator Mitch McConnell and Senator Jon Kyl -- have repeatedly and clearly stated that they will not allow a net tax hike to be imposed on the American people as part of a debt ceiling deal -- especially when the goal of that deal is to reduce the runaway spending now damaging America's economic future and killing the jobs we need.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); DEBT CEILING (91%); TAX REFORM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



785 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Standing Out in the Realm of Property Tax Assessments

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.; sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
In real estate, professionals muse, the three most important factors are location, location, location.
The same appears to be true now in California when it comes to the ease of getting an accurate property tax assessment.
For the third consecutive fiscal year, the real estate market has faltered-- unprecedented since property tax reform took effect with Proposition 13 in 1978 -- calling into question the values of homes and businesses for tax purposes. 
Assessors are required to come up with accurate values, but state law does not dictate how, and the process varies wildly by county: it can be simple, or a contentious ordeal.
''A lot of it is reflective of how the office operates,'' Jon Coupal, president of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which advocated for Proposition 13, said of the state's assessors.
Three years in, the different approaches of some assessors are emerging as mirrors of their communities: friendly in the suburbs, high tech in Silicon Valley, and in San Francisco -- a city where a protest of some sort occurs nearly every day -- cantankerous.
''It was very adversarial,'' said David Zisser, who appealed the assessment of his Japantown condominium.
Mr. Zisser, a lawyer who spoke animatedly with his paperwork strewn across a table in the downtown Olympic Club, bought his home in 2005, near the height of the market, for $604,000. But in 2009, even after the housing market had collapsed, the San Francisco Assessor-Recorder's Office placed its value at $653,000.
Mr. Zisser won his appeal -- his 2009 assessment was revised to $572,000, then later lowered to $565,000 for 2010 -- but he said the process took about 40 hours of work to research, file paperwork and shepherd his case through the system.
''Dragging people through this is ridiculous,'' he said, noting that he is still waiting for refunds.
He is not alone: 6,600 assessment appeals were filed in 2009, and another 5,500 in 2010.
Phil Ting, the city's assessor-recorder, who is also a candidate for mayor, said he hoped fewer than 5,000 property owners would appeal their 2011 assessments. Value estimates are being mailed this month.
Mr. Ting said he had been able to settle 80 percent of appeals without full hearings, which he considered an accomplishment given the size of the task. Property values throughout much of the city remain down from pre-recession highs, prompting many owners to seek reassessment.
''This is not a market correction.'' Mr. Ting said. ''This is like a U.S. economy correction.''
To cope with the situation, this year his office has proactively reduced the assessments on 18,841 of 200,000 total parcels in the city -- eliminating the need for those owners to appeal.
But despite these efforts, Mr. Ting said that the antiquated computer system he inherited when he took office in 2005 was a hindrance. ''Think of it as Fred Flintstone,'' he said.
Those limitations mean that owners cannot see exactly how their properties' values were determined until an appeal is well under way -- a situation that creates contention and requires time-consuming efforts to find information elsewhere (frustrations I experienced firsthand when I appealed my assessment, and won).
''We would like to have a more transparent system,'' Mr. Ting said, noting that his office has been working on improving the computer system.
By comparison, in Santa Clara County in Silicon Valley, as of this year homeowners can go online, enter a privacy code and see their account in detail, including the county's math. Disagree with the result? An appeal can also be done online.
Larry Stone, the Santa Clara County assessor, said, ''Each year we're adding electronic functionality to do what we do.''
Mr. Stone said that since the new system was installed, the culmination of 15 years and millions spent on innovation, inquiries to his office had dropped by half.
In the Sacramento area, according to Mr. Coupal, the taxpayer advocate, reduction appeals were handled at amiable weekend workshops for property owners.
As in San Francisco, other counties have proactively reduced assessments in recognition of the downturn. In Santa Clara County, Mr. Stone said that this year 124,148 properties (one-third of the county's total) were assessed below their purchase price.
''But they are not legally required to do so,'' Mr. Coupal said of the proactive reductions. Ultimately, ''the burden is on the property owner,'' he pointed out.
In San Francisco, Mr. Zisser just received his latest assessment: up $15,000 to $580,000. He disagrees with that figure, but said appealing this time was not worth the grief.
''The city has made the process adversarial so people won't go through it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Zisser, with some of the paperwork he used in successfully appealing his San Francisco property tax assessment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT JAMES/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); TAX ASSESSORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LAWYERS (75%); TAX REFORM (71%); MAYORS (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



786 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: A Program for Youth Safety Begins With Just a Sign

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
A sidewalk or park bench is not a bed. But for a few too many youths, either can be refuge from a home they're compelled to leave behind.
That also explains the juxtaposition in signage at a resolutely retro-looking White Castle, first of the venerable hamburger chains, on Chicago's Northwest Side.
The white and blue sign outside heralds both the high-caloric lure inside and a needed respite from the heat: ''20 Chicken Rings 4.99 Ice Bags $1.79 $2.79.'' But there's also a yellow and black diamond-shaped decal in the window that simply declares, ''Safe Place.'' 
It's part of the Chicago version of a program financed by the Department of Justice and aimed at public awareness of youth safety. The program is being rolled out in six cities over the next eight months. Chicago, the largest participating city, is first up, with a focus on youth homelessness; Denver follows, with an emphasis on child sexual abuse in bilingual communities.
''If your family can't provide safety, where do you go?'' said Judy Gall, executive director of Alternatives Inc., an Uptown social services agency and one of three Chicago agencies partnering with the nonprofit Youth Network Council, which received the program grants for the two-year campaign.
Messages like ''My Parents Kicked Me Out,'' ''I Didn't Feel Safe at Home'' and ''A Bench Is No Bed'' will soon be found on three Chicago Transit Authority bus lines (Chicago Avenue, Kedzie Avenue and 77th Street) and four el lines (Red, Green, Orange and Pink), as well as on 25 benches during the three-month-long media part of the campaign, courtesy of a separate Justice Department grant.
For whatever reasons a youth leaves a parent or guardian, the hope is that he or she will see the signs and understand that there is a temporary place for advice and shelter. That's especially true for minority and impoverished youths nervous about one possible destination, a police station, because of a lack of trust.
In 2010, more than 2,000 calls were made from the 773 and 312 area codes to the National Runaway Switchboard. An estimated 2,000 young people are on city streets on any given night, a University of Illinois report said.
The street youth may include a teenager booted from home because she's gay. Perhaps there's a victim of sexual abuse by a guardian. There also could be a teenager released from a psychiatric hospital who finds nobody waiting to pick him up.
Neglect, substance abuse and trauma all play parts, said Meghan Schroeder, a family crisis intervention supervisor at Alternatives. She'll line up counseling and shelter, try to fashion reconciliation with family members and, if unable to do so, contact the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services.
But the federally backed campaign needs businesses and others to help. In theory, a troubled youth walks into a store, announces his need and sets off a call to a 24-hour hot line, which dispatches a counselor.
Only two White Castle outlets and two Y.M.C.A.'s have signed up so far for a campaign benefiting from both a two-year $290,000 grant and a separate $140,000 allocation for the media portion.
''Many can be leery since they hear so many bad things about kids,'' said Elizabeth Tracy, who oversees the Chicago Safe Place Program for the Youth Network Council.
So Ms. Tracy must educate and cajole local chambers of commerce, mom and pop stores and others. Her wish list of partners includes the likes of Walgreens, based in Deerfield, and McDonald's, based in Oak Brook.
Especially in a recession, philanthropy fatigue can grow, even as Ms. Schroeder recounts crisis example after example, like a 16-year-old and her 4-month-old baby who were locked out by an unhappy adoptive mother. There was the teenager, without an apartment, job or food, having to grow up very quickly.
Help was provided via a shelter and counseling, with the adoptive mother finally readmitting the teenager and her baby.
Immediate aid is central to the program, which will operate in 24 of 77 city neighborhoods.
The program's mission is a subject understood by Felicia Davis, a former Chicago police officer and detective who is Mayor Rahm Emanuel's first deputy chief of staff. Ms. Davis has been a foster parent twice and grew up in a home that provided sanctuary to friends of her sister.
''When a young person falls off track, when a family's in crisis, we should all be concerned,'' she said. ''It really does take a village.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A White Castle in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW A. NELLES FOR CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD POVERTY (89%); CHILD ABUSE (87%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); FAST FOOD (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); POLICE FORCES (67%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



787 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Owners Vote in Favor of Tentative Labor Deal

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- N.F.L. owners ratified a 10-year proposal on Thursday afternoon that would end the four-month-long lockout next Wednesday, with one big condition: the players have to re-form their union in coming days and approve the deal themselves. The players have until Tuesday to vote.
Owners approved the proposal, 31-0, with the Raiders abstaining because of concerns about a supplemental revenue-sharing system that owners also approved. The executive committee of the players association has to recommend approval of the collective bargaining agreement by Saturday before players would be allowed into N.F.L. facilities and could begin signing conditional contracts.
Approval by players is far from certain. Player representatives held a conference call with players association officials on Thursday night, but had not seen the final proposal from owners. There were indications that players were unhappy that the owners had approved an agreement they had not yet seen, with a timeline for re-forming the union that they felt rushed them -- in effect putting immense pressure on players to approve the deal or be blamed for its failure. 
''As you may have heard, they apparently approved a supplemental revenue-sharing proposal,'' DeMaurice Smith, the players association executive director, wrote to all players on Thursday night. ''Obviously, we have not been a part of those discussions. As you know from yesterday, issues that need to be collectively bargained remain open, other issues such as workers compensation, economic issues and end-of-deal terms remain unresolved. There is no agreement between the N.F.L. and the players at this time.''
In a far harsher e-mail sent to player representatives, Richard Berthelsen, the association's general counsel, wrote:
''In addition to depriving the players of the time needed to consider forming a union and making needed changes to the old agreement, this proposed procedure would in my view also violate federal labor laws.''
Commissioner Roger Goodell said at a news conference: ''Those are decisions that ultimately have to be made by the union about what their process is going to be and their timeline. There's a sense of urgency to this. We want to have a full 2011 season that includes four preseason games and we're up against the wall.''
If players were to reject the deal, it would plunge the N.F.L. into further uncertainty -- and perhaps even more negotiation -- with less than two months until the regular season is scheduled to begin. The Hall of Fame Game, which was scheduled for Aug. 7, has already been canceled.
''We believe and expect that we will have a fully approved and ratified agreement on a timely basis,'' said Jeff Pash, the N.F.L.'s general counsel. ''We believe that that works for both sides. We believe that the agreement that has been negotiated -- which is long, complicated and detailed -- was negotiated in good faith with the intention of ratifying it. I cannot imagine that DeMaurice Smith is electing to pay all of those hours for his attorneys to negotiate an agreement that he and his membership then decide not to ratify.''
Pash added: ''So we expect that we will have a ratified agreement and that we will be open with the new league year around the schedule that we have outlined for you. If that does not happen, then obviously we will have to consider what to do next. But for now, we think the reality is we have an agreement. It is a good agreement. We expect it to be ratified. We believe it can be ratified on a timely basis. If something else happens, we will have to adjust our thinking.''
Under the terms of the proposal, players would be allowed to return to team facilities starting Saturday to take physicals, and on that day teams could start signing their own rookies and free-agent players to conditional contracts. On July 27, the league year would begin with free agency and training camps open for all teams, provided the union has re-formed by that time and ratified the collective bargaining agreement.
The owners' plan was meant to solve a significant problem that emerged Thursday: the sides were at odds over how long it should take for the players union to re-form, which was necessary for a collective bargaining agreement to be completed and the lockout to end.
Among the other parts of the proposal the owners approved: all outstanding litigation, including the players' antitrust suit and the television contracts lawsuit, would be withdrawn, the league said; no settlement payments would be made to any of the 10 named plaintiffs in the antitrust suit; and there would be no payment of the $310 million in benefit money that owners did not have to pay in 2010, but that players demanded at the end of negotiations.
Off-season workouts have been curtailed, and the salary cap would be set at $120 million this season, with a new rookie wage system in effect that curtails the pay to the top draft picks.
The league has been adamant that it will not lift the lockout and allow players to return to work until a collective bargaining agreement is completed, because it does not trust that the process of re-forming the union would proceed without complication if it allows players to return. The owners are particularly distrustful of the players' lead lawyer, Jeff Kessler, said one person briefed on the league's thinking.
The players association wants to have time to collect physical union cards from players, a time-consuming process. The difference is important to the players, because they believe a more complicated and deliberate reconstituting of the union -- Smith said on Thursday that players had to seriously consider whether they want to re-form the union -- buttresses their argument that the dissolution of the union was not a sham to gain bargaining leverage, an important point to protect for future negotiations.
''Our position is we need physical cards to re-form the union,'' one players association official said. ''We took physical cards to decertify. That's the process these guys are comfortable with.''
The players also feel it is a bit disingenuous for the league to insist it cannot open its doors without a fully completed collective bargaining agreement, because there are some parts of the agreement -- drug testing, discipline, the process for disputing grievances -- that can only be collectively bargained with a union.
Players want to negotiate those issues anew after they re-form the union, but on Thursday they said that the league wants them to accept terms from the 2006 agreement on those issues. Players are adamant that they will not be rushed just because owners want to open training camps next week and point out that the N.F.L. operated for several years without a union in the early 1990s.
League executives, frustrated by what they feel are Kessler's repeated efforts to stall an agreement, called the standoff a game of ''high-stakes chicken.''
As Goodell and members of the owners' labor committee announced their ratification, few of them smiled, and one questioner noted that Goodell did not look relieved. Goodell responded that ''exhausted'' was a better word because they had been working very hard. Their work might not be done yet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Commissioner Roger Goodell, right, with Panthers owner Jerry Richardson, after an owners meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN AMIS/REUTERS) (B11)
 Titans quarterback Rusty Smith, left, Cortland Finnegan, center, and Chris Hope working out at a high school field in Nashville. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK HUMPHREY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (93%); LOCKOUTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); LAWYERS (61%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TENNESSEE TITANS (59%); CAROLINA PANTHERS (59%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (69%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



788 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Adds Subscribers, Improving On Estimates

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
AT&T posted better-than-expected subscriber growth for the second quarter, pushing its profit and sales past Wall Street estimates despite the loss of exclusive rights to sell the Apple iPhone in the United States. 
AT&T, which is seeking approval to buy T-Mobile USA for $39 billion, added 331,000 net subscribers in the quarter, compared with the average expectation for 91,000 from analysts surveyed by Reuters.
''The net additions were surprisingly strong,'' Michael Nelson, an analyst at Mizuho, said. ''It seems like AT&T really successfully defended its turf after losing iPhone exclusivity.''
Mr. Nelson said the strong results could be overshadowed by investor concern about growing opposition to AT&T's plan to buy T-Mobile USA.
Senator Herb Kohl, chairman of the Senate's Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights Subcommittee, urged regulators on Wednesday to block the deal, and other lawmakers also expressed concern. The deal would cost AT&T about $6 billion in breakup fees if it were rejected.
AT&T said Thursday that it still expected the deal to close in the first quarter of 2012 and that federal regulators reviewing the transaction were ''asking the questions you would expect.''
AT&T said profit fell to $3.59 billion, or 60 cents a share, from $4 billion or 67 cents a share a year earlier, and compared with analysts' estimates of 59 cents a share.
Excluding a Telmex Internacional transaction a year earlier, AT&T said, earnings would have been flat.
Revenue rose 2.2 percent to $31.5 billion from $30.8 billion.
Stock in AT&T, which is based in Dallas, rose 5 cents, to $30.28 a share.
Its results came a day before its rival, Verizon Communications, is scheduled to release quarterly results. Verizon operates the market leader Verizon Wireless in partnership with the Vodafone Group.
In the first quarter, Verizon Wireless started selling the iPhone, ending more than three years of AT&T's exclusive rights to sell the device in the United States. While Verizon is expected to add about three times the subscribers of AT&T this quarter, AT&T fared better than had been expected.
AT&T said that the iPhone was still its strongest-selling smartphone and that half its customers were using smartphones by the end of the quarter. Seventy percent of its phone sales were for the advanced phones, which command higher service charges.
While wireless services have long been driving growth at AT&T, the chief financial officer, John J. Stephens, told analysts on a conference call that wireline revenue should resume growth soon even if the economy did not improve.
''Whether it happens in the third quarter or the fourth quarter, we're on the cusp of it now,'' Mr. Stephens said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (86%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (85%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%); APPLE INC (58%); TELMEX INTERNACIONAL SAB DE CV (54%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (53%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (86%); VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%); VOD (NASDAQ) (53%); VOD (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (54%)

PERSON: HERB KOHL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



789 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Farm Thieves Go for Grapes, And Even Bees

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
BAKERSFIELD, Calif. -- Sgt. Walt Reed said he could tell right away that the grapes were stolen. They looked like an ordinary bunch. Except, he said, for the way they were dressed.
''Usually grapes are put into plastic bags,'' said Sergeant Reed, a 28-year veteran of the Kern County Sheriff's Office. ''But these grapes were just thrown in a Styrofoam box.''
Sergeant Reed -- who eventually arrested a suspect after staking out a Kern County vineyard -- is just one of dozens of deputies on the front lines of agricultural crime in California, home to the nation's most productive farms and the people who prey on them. While thievery has long been a fact of life in the country, such crimes are on the rise and fighting them has become harder in many parts of California as many grants for rural law enforcement have withered on the vine. 
While other states have their own agricultural intrigue -- cattle rustlers in Texas, tomato takers in Florida -- few areas can claim a wider variety of farm felons than California, where ambushes on everything from almonds to beehives have been reported in recent years. Then there is the hardware: diesel fuel, tools and truck batteries regularly disappear in the Central Valley, the state's agricultural powerhouse, where high unemployment, foreclosures and methamphetamine abuse have made criminals more desperate, officials say.
''All of our ag crimes are up,'' said Sergeant Reed, who oversees a unit of two full-time detectives -- down from three a year ago -- all patrolling a county about eight times the size of Rhode Island. A wet winter and warm summer, after all, have meant healthy crops, he said, and a healthy market means happy thieves.
''Everything this year is doing well,'' Sergeant Reed said. ''And if it's doing well here, there's somebody looking to steal it.''
Counties up and down the state also are dealing with a surge in copper theft -- a perennial problem made all the worse of late by the soaring price for the metal. Such robberies are remarkably simple. Bandits simply snip copper wires running between outdoor wells and their power boxes.
''To repair them is anywhere from $2,000 to $5,000 a whack,'' said Greg Wegis, a Kern County farmer. ''We repaired one, and it immediately got ripped off again.''
And copper is not the only tempting metal.
''Two hundred pounds of iron might bring them 75, 100 bucks,'' Sergeant Reed said. ''That's money they can use to put gas in their trucks. They can get some food.''
Nor are the crimes limited to poorer areas; in Napa County, where fans of the good life flock for the wine and warm weather, the police set up a tip line in June to combat a raft of thefts, including solar panels at some vineyards.
In other areas, deputies say they have witnessed a kind of Robin Hood effect, where some small, struggling farmers filch materials from their better stocked competitors.
''It's typical during certain times of the year: you'll see a surge in theft from bigger farms,'' said Deputy Sheriff John H. McCarthy, a rural crime investigator for Santa Barbara County. ''Chemicals, fuel and the type of things you need to put in a new crop.''
Not even insects are immune. In Madera County, about 130 miles east of San Francisco, officials saw a rash of bee burglaries this year, as a shortage of able-bodied pollinators drove up the price. ''They'd just go in there and they smoke the bees, sedate them and take them,'' Sheriff John Anderson said. ''And they wear protective gear just like the pros.''
Brian Long, a beekeeper based in Colorado, was one of those hit, losing more than 400 hives -- valued at about $100,000 -- in California in January. And while Mr. Long later recovered the hives, and most of the bees therein, he said the thieves were getting bolder. ''This is way more than we've ever had to deal with,'' he said.
Like many lawmen in vast agricultural areas, Sheriff Anderson said a major challenge was the remoteness of farms and the lack of witnesses. ''It's not like breaking into the neighbor's house and the dog barking,'' he said. ''These things are just sitting out here in the middle of nowhere.''
Chris Wadkins, the president of the California Rural Crime Prevention Task Force, a nonprofit coalition of law enforcement and agricultural organizations, echoed that sentiment. Mr. Wadkins, a deputy sheriff in San Bernardino County, said his department had been battling what he called ''an organized crime ring of sorts'' with a very specific target: avocados.
''You always get your mom and pop who might stop and pick one or two for dinner,'' Mr. Wadkins said. ''That's not what we're talking about here.''
Danielle Rau, the director of rural crime prevention for the California Farm Bureau, said the nonviolent nature of farm theft often made it a low priority when it comes to financing. ''Violent crimes have to come first,'' Ms. Rau said.
California provides grants to some coastal and Central Valley counties for rural crime prevention. But the California Emergency Management Agency, which administers the grant program, says the amount allocated has shrunk from nearly $4 million in the 2008-09 fiscal year to a little more than $2 million in 2010-11.
The cutbacks are not limited to California. Florida officials recently lost or left vacant more than a dozen positions from their agricultural crime units. In Texas, which also has seen an increase in agricultural crime, the authorities rely on groups like the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association, whose Special Rangers investigate livestock and equipment theft.
With many California counties cutting back, some rural dwellers have taken matters into their own hands. Take Steve Mello, for example, a charmingly crusty corn and alfalfa farmer on the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta who said thieves have taken about $15,000 worth of his property in the past year. ''It's difficult to lock up 1,400-plus acres,'' he said. ''The value of the fences would be worth more than I'm worth.''
Still, Mr. Mello was so frustrated that he briefly took to sitting sentinel on his tractor with a shotgun. Not that he ever saw anyone, thankfully.
''Death for thievery is kind of a severe sentence,'' he said. ''I wouldn't want that on my conscience.''
Instead, Mr. Mello is now relying on a camera system, something professional lawmen like Sergeant Reed also use. The Kern County Sheriff's Office also uses hidden tracking devices in seemingly defenseless pumps and other decoy equipment.
Rural theft cost Kern County about $4 million in the last 12 months, Sergeant Reed said. And despite the cuts, he said that his detectives had made an impact, if only by speaking the farmers' language.
''If we send a guy who doesn't know which end the hay goes in and which goes out, that becomes a little -- I don't want to use the word offensive -- but it becomes troublesome,'' he said. ''Now, at least, they've got someone they can talk to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Mello, whose corn and alfalfa farm has been hit by thieves over the past year, says, ''It's difficult to lock up 1,400-plus acres.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senior Deputy Jose Sanchez of the Kern County Sheriff''s Office set up a camera in an area where copper thefts occurred. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); FELONIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SHERIFFS (76%); METHAMPHETAMINE (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); DIESEL FUEL (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



790 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Back A Sweeping Plan To Rescue Greece

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and STEPHEN CASTLE; James Kanter contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After years of resistance, European leaders agreed Thursday to reduce Greece's debt burden in a last-ditch effort to preserve the euro and stem a broader financial panic.
The pact, negotiated in Brussels, is part of a rescue package of 109 billion euros, or $157 billion, for Greece, the most troubled economy in the euro zone. It will force many investors in Greek debt to accept some losses on their bonds.
The deal would also provide substantial debt relief for Ireland and Portugal. And by giving the main European rescue fund increased powers to assist countries that have not been bailed out -- like Spain and Italy -- leaders are betting that the program, described by some as a new Marshall Plan for Europe, will serve as a firebreak against the contagion that has threatened to engulf some of the region's largest economies.
Officials have long shunned proposals that would make banks and other creditors share some losses on Greek debt. But European leaders are taking the calculated risk that they can avoid spooking investors by expanding the aid package to include other troubled countries on Europe's periphery. 
The fear had been that a failure by Greece to pay its debt in full could lead to panicked selling of other European bonds. That could make it impossible for other countries to borrow at a reasonable interest rate and finance themselves.
The lack of a solution to Greece had also rattled financial markets, ultimately forcing European leaders to act this week. On the eve of the summit meeting, Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Angela Merkel of Germany met in Berlin, along with the president of the European Central Bank, and came to a general agreement that euro zone taxpayers would have to cover the rescue costs to preserve the integrity of the single European currency. How German and French citizens will react to the proposal is unclear.
Financial markets in Europe and the United States rallied Thursday on news that a broad agreement was imminent, one that would end the piecemeal approach that has brought only temporary relief in the last couple of years.
Most economists had deemed Greece incapable of repaying its debt mountain, which amounts to 150 percent of its gross domestic product.
Under the plan, Greece would receive assistance in several ways. Holders of short-term obligations would be able to swap their notes for debt with longer maturities and backed by high-rated bonds. An organization that includes most major European banks said its members would accept the offer and expected 90 percent of all Greek bonds to be exchanged.
Separately, officials said that the terms of the aid package from Europe to Greece would be eased, with maturities lengthened to 15 years from 7.5 years, at an interest rate of a quite low 3.5 percent.
The euro zone leaders would give wide-ranging new powers to the region's rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, by allowing it to buy government bonds on the secondary market and to help recapitalize banks -- which might be needed when they write down the value of their Greek bonds.
The new powers would effectively turn the facility into a prototype European monetary fund -- a move that has long been resisted by Germany, the euro zone's richest nation, but that has drawn the support of economists and government officials outside Europe.
Together, the various measures are intended to show that the euro zone's leaders are committed to taking forceful policy measures -- just as the United States and Britain did during the 2008 crisis -- that will stem the spread of contagion.
''This is a move in the right direction,'' said Peter Bofinger, an economist in Germany who is a member of an economic panel that advises the German government. ''The important thing is that they have agreed on a more flexible role for the E.F.S.F. -- that should help in reducing tensions.''
But the true test will most likely come in the months ahead, when nations like Portugal, Ireland and Spain, which are struggling to impose unpopular austerity measures on their people, confront the difficulty of cutting budget deficits in the face of brutal recessions.
While the agreement to increase the powers of the euro bailout fund did not come easily, the debt deal was perhaps harder to secure.
The move will be deemed a selective default by the credit ratings agencies, something the European Central Bank had previously said was unacceptable.
Jean-Claude Trichet, whose term as president of the European Central Bank will end in October, had argued forcefully that a Greek default, selective or otherwise, would cause contagion to spread as bondholders in other countries unloaded their Irish, Portuguese and even Spanish and Italian bonds.
But as fears in Brussels mounted over a bond market rout in Italy -- the euro zone's third-largest economy -- the risk seemed worth taking by many of Europe's leaders.
Germany, which is paying the biggest portion of the bill to bail out Greece, has long pushed for a debt swap to keep bondholders committed to Greece with longer-term bonds.
Since 2009, foreign banks have reduced their Greek holdings to 45.5 billion euros from 68 billion euros, while taxpayers in Europe (with Germany way out in front) have seen their exposure to Greece go to $120 billion euros from zero -- and that exposure is expected to grow.
And while bondholders will not need to take a big haircut now -- an important element for capital-thin banks in France and Germany that are the biggest holders of Greek debt -- they might certainly take one in the future.
''This will take maturing bonds out of the equation, and it keeps the bondholders in the game and ultimately will make them share in the pain,'' said Lee C. Buchheit, a lawyer at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton who has worked on similar debt deals in Latin America. ''Everyone knows that something more drastic is coming, but when it comes, you want it to be the bondholders who pay, not the taxpayer.''
European officials said on Thursday that financial institutions that own Greek bonds would effectively contribute 54 billion euros through 2014, largely by accepting reduced interest payments, and will stretch their maturities to as long as 30 years.
In a statement, the Institute of International Finance, a bankers' group, said that the deal would reduce Greece's debt burden by 13.5 billion euros, and potentially more since the European rescue facility will be able to purchase bonds at a discount in the open market. That reduction is relatively small, though, relative to the country's total debt of 350 billion euros, or $496 billion.
Still, the deal does represent the first concrete agreement between Greece and its bondholders, and its champions point to the success Uruguay had in 2003 when it initiated a similar program.
Critics have countered that Uruguay suffered from a short-term liquidity crisis, not a solvency problem rooted in a nearly bankrupt state, as is the case with Greece.
But the near collapse in Italian bonds last week pushed Europe to consider proposals that just months ago were unthinkable.
For example, a panel of German economists that advise the government last week recommended what economists call a hard restructuring of Greek debt, which would have resulted in an immediate 50 percent loss to bondholders. In the face of such a prospect, a maturity extension -- and the risk that comes from being in selective default -- may well be an acceptable alternative, for Europe, Greece and the bondholders themselves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, Christine Lagarde, head of the I.M.F., and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. (POOL PHOTO BY STEFFEN KUGLER) (A1)
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, which had resisted broadening the rescue fund's powers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN THYS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) CHART: Another Rescue Plan In Europe (Sources: Bloomberg (interest rates)
 Standard & Poor's (ratings)) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); FIRES (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (67%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



791 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Debt Ceiling Uncertainty Puts States at Risk

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The federal debt ceiling debate is already complicating life for state and local governments.
Maryland is postponing a bond sale that had been scheduled for Friday, after the state was warned that its credit rating would probably be lowered in the event of a federal downgrade. California, which typically issues short-term bonds at this time of year, is working to arrange bank loans instead, citing the market uncertainty. And state officials across the nation are trying to figure out what will happen to the federal payments they rely on for everything from Medicaid to unemployment to highway construction if a deal is not reached to raise the debt ceiling by the Aug. 2 deadline.
States whose economies rely on the federal government -- including Maryland and Virginia, home to many federal employees and contractors -- are at the greatest risk if there is no agreement and Washington has to decide which payments to make and which to skip. They were among the states warned by Moody's Investors Service this week that their credit ratings were being jeopardized by Washington -- which would make it more expensive for them to borrow for costs like construction, through no fault of their own. 
''For nearly 75 years we have worked hard to earn the highest credit ratings from all three rating agencies,'' Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, a Republican, wrote this week to President Obama and members of Congress, urging them to raise the debt limit. ''Now your failure to get the job done is hurting the businesses and citizens of our commonwealth.''
Many state and local officials are still hoping that a deal will be reached, averting a situation in which federal payments to the states could start to be cut in August. But a number of states have begun preparing for the worst.
Ric Brown, Virginia's secretary of finance, said that it was a difficult task, made much more difficult by the lack of concrete information coming from Washington. ''What you've got at the federal level, let's face it, is outright chaos,'' he said in an interview. ''It's hard to make sense out of that.''
In Maryland, the uncertainty over what will happen in Washington is complicating the state's plans to sell bonds for school construction and to refinance some existing debt. The sale was pushed back to Monday after the state was warned that the debt ceiling debate could harm its credit rating.
Of course, if the debt limit is not raised and the federal government cannot meet all its costs, states and localities will face a new set of more serious problems. The National Conference of State Legislatures told members this week that there was little experience to guide their many ''what if'' questions, citing instead ''a potpourri of 'coulds,' '' including the possibility that the federal government could pay its debts in the order in which they were received, or could prioritize which payments to make.
If the federal government were to stop paying some employees or contractors next month, or were to hold back Social Security checks, it could have a ''profound effect on state and local tax revenues,'' according to a report issued this week by the Pew Center on the States. On top of that, a delay in the payments that states and local governments rely on would pose cash-flow problems for many states. The Pew report noted that the federal government owed $10.4 billion in tuition assistance next month, when the academic year begins.
August is also the peak of the road construction season. In June, the states got $4 billion worth of reimbursements for transportation projects from the federal government, said Jack Basso, the director of program finance and management for the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials. Now the association is trying to figure out whether money in the highway trust fund -- which comes mostly from the federal gas tax -- would be protected if the debt limit were not raised.
An interruption in payments would put states in a bind, Mr. Basso said, since they use the money to pay private contractors. ''They would have to face 'How are we going to pay our bills?' '' Mr. Basso said.
California had been preparing to issue $5 billion worth of short-term bonds next month, but now its treasurer, Bill Lockyer, is seeking to put together a bridge loan with banks instead.
''Given the situation in Washington, the treasurer decided it would be prudent to develop a contingency plan, a Plan B,'' said Tom Dresslar, a spokesman.
Mayors are also watching the debate in Washington nervously. Several said in interviews that they were not worried in the short term. But some, including Mayor Ralph Becker of Salt Lake City, said they were worried about the general economic harm that a federal default would cause. ''We all fear and see the specter, the dark clouds that would hide our beautiful blue skies and mountains,'' he said. ''It's hanging over us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia wrote to President Obama and members of Congress urging them to raise the debt limit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MEDICAID (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



792 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Among Victims, an Amish Farmer Quick to Adapt

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
JASPER, N.Y. -- For several golden years, Melvin Hershberger lived the Amish dream. He rose early with his wife and brood of children, who now number a dozen, to tend to the family's goat herd, twice a day milking 70 goats by hand.
This is an Amish ideal: to earn a living off one's land, surrounded and helped by kin. 
But when a dairy abruptly stopped buying his goat milk a few years ago, Mr. Hershberger sold the herd and planted strawberries. He taught at a local Amish school.
And he resolved to learn new ways for growing produce, which is how he and his wife ended up on an agricultural excursion this week that ended with a crash, killing Mr. Hershberger and four other Amish farmers, to the heartbreak of the community here.
To many outsiders, the Amish seem like a people frozen in a centuries-old past, with their use of horse-drawn buggies, their old-fashioned manner of dress and their widespread rejection of modern comforts like electricity and indoor plumbing.
But many Amish like the Hershbergers have proven nimble in their ability to supplement their livelihoods, adapting to mercurial external demands in order to preserve their fiercely insular worlds.
When dairy farming alone became too expensive and financially unrewarding, many Amish took on sawmill work, home and barn building, and woodcrafts. When the recession stilled home building, there was a shift to raising goats for milk and rabbits for meat. When those markets teetered, some Amish began growing produce to sell, embracing organic farming and setting up stalls at farmers' markets.
''The Amish have not tried to keep things the way they were 300 years ago,'' said Stephen Scott, a research associate at the Young Center for Anabaptist and Pietist Studies at Elizabethtown College in Pennsylvania. ''All along they have made small adjustments.''
The shifts, he hastened to add, happened gradually. ''The Amish don't make quick changes,'' he said.
On Tuesday, Mr. Hershberger, who was 42, and his fellow Amish farmers were traveling in a van to a nearby county to learn about unheated greenhouses that can extend growing seasons and increase crop yields.
In Benton, about 75 miles from here in driving distance, a car trying to pass a tractor on a curve sideswiped their van. Along with the deaths, 10 people were injured, including Mr. Hershberger's wife, Elva. The car's driver was charged with criminally negligent homicide, driving while intoxicated and other lesser offenses.
The communities of Jasper, about 90 miles south of Rochester near the Pennsylvania border, and neighboring Woodhull and Troupsburg, where the crash victims lived, have responded with an outpouring of support, donating money, food, water and ice. Plans are in the works to set up hundreds of cots and turn the local school into a shelter to accommodate the many hundreds of mourners from far-flung Amish communities who are expected to journey here.
New York's Amish population has nearly tripled in the last decade, to 13,000, according to research by the Young Center, and in the towns where the crash victims lived, the Amish have burnished a reputation for being, in many ways, jacks of all trades. They sell homemade wooden furniture, homemade quilts, plants, plant holders and tarps that they advertise with hand-painted wooden signs along the winding roads.
''They're well known for picking up a trade, and when that starts to fade, picking up another,'' said Elliot Baker, who owns Woodhull Feed Supply. ''They will do everything they can do to survive.''
Before buying the goats, Mr. Hershberger had worked with his father and brothers building roofs, decks and cabinets, said Bruce Thomson, a retired veterinarian who befriended Mr. Hershberger during his goat-owning years. In Amish parlance, the construction jobs meant ''working out,'' or often leaving home, perhaps finding someone to drive them to a work site, and missing the noontime meal and prayers with the family.
For Mr. Hershberger, owning the goat herd was ''kind of a lifelong dream,'' Mr. Thomson said, because it allowed daylong work with his family. Among the Amish, work is seen as an important means of transmitting values to children.
Mr. Hershberger, widely known as Shorty (he stood 5 feet 4 inches), had been duped into buying a sickly herd, Mr. Thomson said, but he nursed them back to health and commercial viability. After milking the goats, Mr. Hershberger and his family carried the tins of milk to holding tanks off their property, where the milk was kept cool until pickup, as Amish customs here do not allow electrical refrigeration.
''That was what Shorty was happiest about,'' Mr. Thomson said. ''It was the whole family working together.''
When Mr. Hershberger's buyer canceled the contract, Mr. Thomson said, Mr. Hershberger was crestfallen but did not let it show. ''He was heartbroken, but I never saw him express anger,'' Mr. Thomson said. ''He didn't throw anything. He didn't curse. He didn't feel sorry for himself.''
Instead, Mr. Thomson said, Mr. Hershberger and his wife put their heads down and carried on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Goods were donated Thursday in Jasper, N.Y., for the families of five Amish who died in a crash. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUY SOLIMANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); GOAT FARMING (90%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (90%); MAMMALS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); MILK (76%); AGRICULTURE (75%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (75%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (75%); HOMICIDE (74%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (74%); MANSLAUGHTER (74%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (69%); RABBIT PRODUCTION (68%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); NEGLIGENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



793 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: A Rescue Plan for Greece Lifts Financial Markets

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
News that European leaders were drawing up a new rescue plan for Greece and taking a broader approach to dealing with Europe's debt troubles drove stock markets higher on Thursday.
The Dow rose 152 points. Oil crossed $100 for the first time since June. The euro rose against the dollar, and United States government bonds fell.
At an emergency meeting in Brussels, European officials agreed to give Greece a rescue package worth 109 billion euros ($155 billion). They also plan to lower interest rates and lengthen repayment terms for loans to Greece, as well as those made to Ireland and Portugal. 
Worries about Europe's debt crisis have been hanging over financial markets for months. A default by Greece or another deeply indebted country could freeze debt markets and cause other damage to Europe's banking system.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 152.50 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 12,724.41.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 17.96 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,343.80. The Nasdaq composite index rose 20.20 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,834.43.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 23/32, to 100 30/32, and the yield rose to 3.01 percent, from 2.93 percent late Wednesday. The euro rose 2 cents to $1.44.
Europe's debt crisis and the debate over raising the United States government's borrowing limit have kept investors on edge over the last two weeks. The Dow and the S.& P. have flip-flopped between gains and losses over the last eight trading days.
Markets have overreacted to signs of progress in the European debt crisis before.
In late June, stocks soared when French banks agreed to accept slower repayment of loans to Greece. Markets rose again two days later after Greek lawmakers passed an austerity bill, a necessary step before the country could receive a loan installment. Each rally was short-lived.
But this deal is more comprehensive. ''This is the first serious effort to address Greece's problems,'' said Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott. Mr. LeBas said the 110 billion-euro loan package arranged last year by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund just piled more loans on top of the debt Greece already owed.
Bank stocks were broadly higher. A solution for Europe's debt trouble would remove a threat to banks. In addition, Morgan Stanley, which posted results, said its quarterly loss was much smaller than analysts expected, helped by an increase in trading revenue. Its shares rose 11 percent.
Of the 30 banks that have reported earnings so far, 24 have surpassed analysts' estimates, according to research by Keefe Bruyette & Woods.
Technology stocks trailed the rest of the market. Intel slipped 1 percent, the only company in the Dow average whose stock dropped. The chip maker said it expected weaker PC sales for the rest of the year as people and companies choose to buy tablet computers instead.
Express Scripts said it would buy Medco Health Solutions for $29.1 billion. The merger would combine the nation's largest pharmacy benefits managers. Medco's stock rose 14 percent. Express Scripts gained 5 percent.
Stronger earnings pushed the stocks of Union Pacific and Philip Morris International up more than 4 percent. Philip Morris, the cigarette maker, also increased its full-year earnings forecast. Union Pacific's profit increased 10 percent, helped by higher shipping prices and a rise in the number of carloads it carries.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); EURO (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) EUROPE (95%); GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



794 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Hiring and Manufacturing Remain in a Summer Slump

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The economy's spring slump appears to be extending into the summer, according to a series of reports released Thursday.
Layoffs are rising. Manufacturing activity in the Northeast expanded only slightly in July after contracting in June. Economic growth is projected to pick up this fall, but not enough to give businesses sufficient confidence to hire and speed the recovery. 
Economists are forecasting a third straight month of feeble hiring in July, based on the latest round of data. Expectations are the economy added in the range of 50,000 to 100,000 net new jobs this month.
That is not enough to keep up with population growth and far below what is needed to lower the unemployment rate, which was 9.2 percent last month.
''We're going to see improvement, but right now nothing's improved yet,'' said Joshua Dennerlein, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Applications for unemployment benefits rose last week to a seasonally adjusted 418,000, the Labor Department said. They have now topped 400,000 for 15 straight weeks. Applications had fallen in February to 375,000, a level that signals healthy job growth.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said its manufacturing index rose to 3.2 in July, a sign that the sector was growing again. It contracted in June for the first time in nine months. The index dropped to negative 7.7, the lowest level in two years. Any figure below zero indicates contraction.
The index topped 40 in March. The lower reading illustrates what analysts said was the impact of a parts shortage caused by the Japanese earthquake, which has affected many automakers and electronics producers. Still, manufacturers expressed some hope in the latest survey, saying they expect orders and shipments to pick up significantly six months from now.
The Conference Board projected modest growth for the broader economy in the coming months based on its latest reading of leading economic indicators. The index rose in June for the second straight month. It declined in April, the first time that had happened in nearly a year.
The private research group offered a caveat: Federal lawmakers must agree to raise the government's borrowing limit and avoid a default on the debt.
The federal government has reached its borrowing limit of $14.3 trillion, and the Obama administration says the government will not be able to pay all its bills if the cap is not raised by Aug. 2.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); AUTOMAKERS (63%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



795 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 6016 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise listed. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Super Stars: Quilts From the American Folk Art Museum' (through Sept. 25) This location is featuring 20 quilts in which stars figure in some way, whether as pieced-together geometric forms or as little tufts of thread that suggest a distant galaxy. American Folk Art Museum Lincoln Square Branch, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) 
- Brooklyn Museum: 'Lorna Simpson: Gathered' (through Aug. 21) Much of Lorna Simpson's photo-based work has been about African-American identity approached from an oblique and elusive perspective. She returns to that theme in new ways in the two installations and video that make up this small show, which includes some 300 framed photographs hung in grid formation on a long gallery wall. Roughly half the pictures are vintage 1950s pinup images of young black women (and a few men) alluringly posed in domestic settings. The rest are of Ms. Simpson herself, posed and dressed like the figures in the photographs, as if to suggest overlooked connections between the present and the past. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
- Brooklyn Museum: 'Vishnu: Hinduism's Blue-Skinned Savior' (through Oct. 2) Hindu sculptures are no ordinary things. Concentrations of spiritual energy so dense as to turn physics inside out, they funnel light from other universes into our mundane world. The light takes a little time to penetrate this show, dauntingly crowded with objects, ideas and information. But it shines through in the end as we trace the many earthly forms taken by one of Hinduism's greatest gods and arrive at the spiritual matinee idol named Krishna. With his sapphire skin and sweet flute songs, he radiates devotional love, and everyone falls for him, including us. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
Guggenheim Museum: 'The Hugo Boss Prize 2010: Hans-Peter Feldmann' (through Nov. 2) Mr. Feldmann, the septuagenarian German artist who was the surprise pick for the Boss Prize honors, has decided to exhibit his prize money in the form of 100,000 $1 bills, pinned to the wall of one of the Guggenheim's Tower galleries. What sounds on paper like a conceptual stunt or a riff on Warholian materialism becomes overpoweringly physical in person, thanks to the smell of the used bills and the traces of their circulation. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
Guggenheim Museum: 'Lee Ufan: Marking Infinity' (through Sept. 28) This five-decade retrospective fills the museum with about 90 works in a Zen-Minimalist, be-here-now vein by a Korean artist who lives in Paris and Japan. Sculptures consist of ordinary, pumpkin-size boulders juxtaposed with sheets and slabs of dark, glossy steel. Paintings made of wide brush strokes executed in gridded order on raw canvas exemplify tension between action and restraint. In its always near-perfect composure, Mr. Lee's art teeters perilously between art and decor. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Ken Johnson)
- International Center of Photography: 'Elliott Erwitt: Personal Best' (through Aug. 28) Like Henri Cartier-Bresson, Mr. Erwitt seeks ''the decisive moment,'' an instant in real time when people, animals or objects appear before the camera in surprising, funny and illuminating ways. The Henny Youngman of photographic one-liners, he delivers visual humor with such economy and grace that it is easy to overlook just how excellent an artist he is. This show presents more than 100 of his favorite images from the past seven decades. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Johnson)
International Center of Photography: 'Hiroshima: Ground Zero 1945' (through Aug. 28) The contact prints and photographs in this show were made in connection with the 1947 United States Strategic Bombing Survey of Hiroshima and depict the cataclysmic devastation in unflinching detail. The survey texts that accompany the images may appear shockingly clinical. The caption on a picture of a library, or what remains of it, reads: ''Interior first story showing contents damage and spalling of cement plaster by fire. Note all books reduced to ashes.'' 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Rosenberg)
Jewish Museum: 'Collecting Matisse and Modern Masters: The Cone Sisters of Baltimore' (through Sept. 25) This exhibition samples the extraordinary trove of European art amassed by two American spinsters in the first half of the 20th century, work now owned by the Baltimore Museum of Art. Although some major collection highlights are absent, the pieces here -- presented in the order of acquisition -- generate a compelling portrait of the Cones as collectors. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3337, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Jewish Museum: 'Maira Kalman: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World)' (through July 31) Like her fellow New Yorker magazine contributors Ed Koren and Roz Chast, Ms. Kalman offers gently humorous cartoon commentary on the trials and tribulations of modern metropolitan life. Ranging in style from faux-naive eccentricity to suave realism, the more than two decades worth of drawings and paintings on paper in this career survey make for an entertaining if not deeply provocative experience. With a flea market-like installation of nondescript objects from her personal collection, however, she tries too hard to be amazingly original. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3337, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Andean Tunic, 400 B.C.E.-1800 C.E.' (through Sept. 18) This small show celebrates the festive yet functional garments woven south of the equator. To the modern eye, they're wearable paintings; lovers of Keith Haring and Elizabeth Murray will find much to admire. So will anyone interested in the complex relationships among art, clothing, ritual and power. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Anthony Caro on the Roof' (through Oct. 30) No one in the 1960s produced groovier abstract sculpture than the British artist Anthony Caro, five of whose heavy metal assemblages grace the Met's Rooftop Garden. But only one of these works has that startling, newborn feeling. Sporting a new coat of shiny, taxicab-yellow paint, ''Midday'' (1960) has the look of a jaunty, industrial dinosaur. The others, dating from 1968 to 2010, show a development toward an increasingly conservative, ponderous monumentality. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty' (through Aug. 7) A triumph for this British fashion designer -- who died at 40, by his own hand, last year -- and for the curator Andrew Bolton of the Met's Costume Institute, this career retrospective is ethereal and gross, graceful and manipulative, and poised on a line where fashion turns into something else. The operatic spectacle is pushed along by soundtrack of wind, Handel and orgiastic moans, and has a holographic image of Kate Moss spinning like a moth in a flame at the center. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Mother India: The Goddess in Indian Painting' (through Nov. 27) Sculptures, paintings and drawings from the Met's collection represent manifestations of Devi, the Great Mother goddess who is thought to be the most popular of all Indian deities. Among works dating from the first millennium B.C. to 1990 are pieces of exceptional beauty, including a small, 12th-century argillite sculpture depicting the 16-armed Durga slaying her most fearsome opponent, Mahishasura, after he emerges from the lopped neck of his buffalo disguise. Carved in extraordinarily refined detail, it is a marvel of formal and metaphorical concentration. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Night Vision: Photography After Dark' (through Sept. 18) It wasn't until the gelatin dry-plate process was introduced in the late 1880s that exposure time was lowered enough for photographs to be taken regularly after dark. Alfred Stieglitz was among the first to photograph New York at night. His work is shown alongside Berenice Abbott's spectral ''Nightview, New York'' from 1932, taken from the window of a skyscraper; Brassai's nocturnal views of Paris; and Weegee's high-contrast picture of a crime scene. Diane Arbus, Bill Brandt, Robert Frank, Garry Winogrand and Kohei Yoshiyuki are among the other artists included in this modest, lovely show of 40 black-and-white photographs drawn from the museum's collection, which stops a couple of decades short of the present. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Poetry in Clay: Korean Buncheong Ceramics from Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art' (through Aug. 14) This beautiful exhibition presents bottles, vases, bowls and dishes made by 15th- and 16th-century Korean artisans. In shades of gray, from creamy and opalescent off-whites to deep, warm blacks, the anonymous craftsmen covered vessels with loosely rendered images of flora and fauna and fine-grained patterns of dots and tiny blossoms. These infectiously lively works look as if they'd been made not centuries but only decades ago. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Richard Serra Drawing: A Retrospective' (through Aug. 28) Few artists have pushed drawing to such sculptural and even architectural extremes as Mr. Serra, so it makes sense that his adamantine pursuit of the medium, surveyed in an installation that he largely designed himself, is not quite like anything seen at the Met before. There are moments of off-putting starkness on Mr. Serra's side and some of the usual architectural infelicities on the Met's, but as a demonstration of this august institution's willingness to engage with genuinely radical, physically unsettling art of recent vintage, the show is cause for hope. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
MoMA PS1: 'Laurel Nakadate: Only the Lonely' (through Aug. 8) Laurel Nakadate might be on the cusp of a great new career. She is known for disconcerting, sad and sexually provocative videos that she enlisted older, worse-for-wear men to participate in, but in the past three years she has made two feature-length films. Included in this enthralling survey of her 10-year career, they focus with lingering, heart-aching care on adolescent girls, lost souls looking for love and only getting into trouble. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
- MoMA PS1: Ryan Trecartin: 'Any Ever' (through Sept. 3) This game-changing show of seven related videos, viewed amid eccentric seating arrangements procured mostly from Ikea, reflects the combined imagination of a supertalented young artist and his band of merry, cross-dressing pranksters. The results teeter giddily at the intersection of art, reality television and social networking; forge an integration of video and installation art, not to mention a blend of actual life and animation undreamt of by Walt Disney; and evince an aspirational faith in the potential of uninhibited self-expression, both individual and collective, to counter the mounting materialism of everyday life. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens; (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Smith)
- El Museo del Barrio: 'El Museo's Bienal: The (S) Files 2011' (through Jan. 8) Because of a long renovation of El Museo del Barrio's Fifth Avenue building, four years have passed since the museum's last biannual survey of new Latino, Caribbean and Latin American art. As if to make up for lost time, the new edition is the biggest so far, including work by 75 artists spread over seven shows in four boroughs, with the main event at El Museo itself. The ''S'' this year is for ''Street,'' which covers everything from graffiti to junk sculpture to painted cityscapes, and some of the work has problems with focus. Yet taking the street as a subject opens the possibility to at least think about other subjects, like money for artists, and the lack of it. Other segments of the show are now on display at Socrates Sculpture Park in Long Island City, Queens, and Lehman College Art Gallery in the Bronx; a Brooklyn show is scheduled to start in November. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)
Museum of American Illustration at the Society of Illustrators: 'Pulp Art: The Robert Lesser Collection' (through July 30) This entertaining exhibition presents about 90 racy, scary, comical and fantastic original paintings made for the covers of pulp fiction magazines like Spicy Adventure and Argosy, which captured the imaginations of hoi polloi and offended the sensibilities of moralists during the first half of the 20th century. The most common motif is the sexy damsel in distress. Curvy and underdressed, she is menaced by gangsters, psychos, ghouls, extraterrestrials and ethnic types of all kinds in paintings that scream for attention with sensational expressivity. 128 East 63rd Street, (212) 838-2560, societyillustrators.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Arts and Design: 'Otherworldly: Optical Delusions and Small Realities' (through Sept. 18) In the age of the flat screen, a show about the diorama sounds charmingly naive. Yet ''Otherworldly'' circles back to the two-dimensional image in ways that feel very sophisticated. A good number of the show's more than 40 artists build model homes, cities and landscapes mainly to photograph them. At times the exhibition feels like a Hollywood film-studio tour in miniature. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Francis Alys: A Story of Deception' (through Aug. 1) This possibly premature, hit-and-miss survey of the quixotic, politically aware yet obstinately poetic art of this Belgian artist, who has lived in Mexico since 1986, whipsaws a visitor between engagement and boredom, serious consideration and dismissal. In the show, at MoMA and its PS1 site in Queens (closes Sept. 12), the best works are videos, but the split exhibition is garnished, you might say, with sometimes appealing paintings and sculptures and also dulled with extensive backup materials: studies, notes, texts and newspaper clippings pertaining to most of the works on view. Too often the result confirms this museum's blind faith in the wan, cerebral machinations of late-late-late Conceptualism. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'I Am Still Alive: Politics and Everyday Life in Contemporary Drawing' (through Sept. 19) This show of contemporary drawings (most acquired since 2005) is anchored by a group of telegrams sent by the Japanese artist On Kawara to friends and associates; each one bears the message ''I am still alive.'' The artists seem to be in a permanent state of wariness and suspicion, which is sometimes the result of political instability and at other times more innate. But their efforts to process matters of life and death in short bursts of creative activity feel very of the moment. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Boris Mikhailov: Case History' (through Sept. 5) This exhibition's visceral photographs of homeless people in Ukraine are not for the squeamish. The 19 photos, large-format examples from a series of more than 400 images produced in the late 1990s, portray people in grungy rooms or in wintery outdoor sites naked or pulling aside their clothes to expose parts of their bodies. Thus Mr. Mikhailov protests a society that allows people to fall into such substandard states and conditions. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Neue Galerie: 'Vienna 1900: Style and Identity' (through Aug. 8) One of history's more fraught fin-de-siecle efflorescences of art and thought is recounted in a shifting kaleidoscope of paintings, drawings, architectural models, posters and several species of decorative arts. Among paintings by Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka and Egon Schiele, there is also a re-creation of Freud's psychoanalytic couch, an eye-popping tribute to the Vienna Secession and a crowded face-off between the designer-theoreticians Josef Hoffmann and Adolf Loos. Over all, it resembles a tasting menu with enough rich and disparate flavors that the gaps and omissions can be overlooked. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Cory Arcangel: Pro Tools' (through Sept. 11) This solo turn from Mr. Arcangel, the digital wunderkind, artist-musician and inveterate hacker, seems a trifle scrubbed clean, sanitized and austere. Containing work almost entirely from 2011, it tells us little of his funkier early digital efforts or artistic development. A few pieces reflect his longstanding interest in television and video games; in others he tries too hard to establish his formalist bona fides with wry riffs on abstract painting and sculpture. Mr. Arcangel seems guided by a somewhat callow faith in the avant-garde, striving to perpetuate its tradition, dating from Duchamp, of laying claim to new areas of nonart for art's sake. Sometimes he succeeds, but not always. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Breaking Ground: The Whitney's Founding Collection' (through Sept. 18) In anticipation of its move to a new home in 2015, the Whitney is cooking up a series of six back-to-back experimental permanent collection shows at its present location. The first of them is a sampler of the earliest work in the holdings, and as a summary of the institution's initial view of American Modernism, what a curious thing it is. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: 57th Street
Willem de Kooning: 'The Figure: Movement and Gesture' (through July 29) This artist's own words -- brilliant as usual -- set the stage for this riveting show: ''The figure is nothing unless you twist it around like a strange miracle.'' The 32 mutually illuminating paintings, drawings and sculptures ranging from the late 1960s through the '70s are full of such twists and miracles, emerging from and then slipping back into extravagantly lush, unstable masses of brushwork. The capacity of these marks to read alternately as real -- even anatomically correct -- and malformed and abstract is one reason for the continuing relevance of de Kooning's art. Pace Gallery, 32 East 57th Street, (212) 421-3292, thepacegallery.com. (Smith)
- John O'Reilly: 'Recent Montage' (through July 29) Although the artist John O'Reilly is 81, his work hasn't been in the public eye all that long. He made his small, intricate photo-montages in private for decades before he came to art-world notice in the 1995 Whitney Biennial. The recent works at de Nagy, including pieces dedicated to Hart Crane and Marsden Hartley, combine images from art history, gay pornography and found vintage photographs, supplemented by photographs taken by -- and of -- Mr. O'Reilly himself. The result is boldly self-effacing and self-insistent art. Tibor de Nagy Gallery, 724 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 262-5050, tibordenagy.com. (Cotter)
Galleries: Chelsea
'Birgir Andresson and Poul Gernes: Bolt Out of the Blue' (through July 29) A bright spot in the wan summer season, this double bill of Nordic art attests to the narrative and mood-altering powers of color. It interweaves the works of Birgir Andresson (1955-2007) and Poul Gernes (1925-1996), who were from Iceland and Denmark and are not as well known here as they ought to be. Gernes, a Joseph Beuys contemporary, is represented by his stripe and dot paintings -- simple and cheerful enamels on Masonite. Andresson's text paintings take a more literary and nuanced approach to color, strongly influenced by his childhood in a home for the blind. Sean Kelly Gallery, 528 West 29th Street, (212) 239-1181, skny.com. (Rosenberg)
'Catch the Moon in the Water: Emerging Chinese Artists' (through July 29) This thought-provoking show highlights the complicated situation of ambitious young avant-gardist artists in China, where Western influences are hard to avoid. A comically vulgar music video by the collective Double Fly Art Center lambastes carpetbagging curators; Zhao Zhao creates mischievous sendups of Anselm Kiefer and Christo and Jeanne-Claude; and in a video, Hu Xiangqian, a charming performance artist, excitedly describes works by Western conceptualists that he has read about but not personally experienced. James Cohan Gallery, 533 West 26th Street, (212) 714-9500, jamescohan.com. (Johnson)
- 'Everything Must Go' (through July 29) There's nothing not to like at least a little in this big, saucy group show of new collectibles from the Ceramica Suro in Guadalajara, Mexico, where artists have been producing limited-edition multiples in ceramics and other mediums since 1993. The show is a job-lot style display of current inventory, almost of it for sale, some of it fairly cheap. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street, (212) 645-7335, caseykaplangallery.com. (Cotter)
Sol LeWitt: 'Arcs and Lines' (through Aug. 26) This extraordinary show features three gridded wall drawings by the eminent Conceptual-Minimalist Sol LeWitt (1928-2007), most prominently the airy and ebullient ''Wall Drawing #122'' from 1972, a spare work in blue crayon that wraps almost perfectly around the gallery's large central space. Featuring combinations of two straight, wavy, curved or broken lines in each compartment of the grid, its vaulting composition evokes Matisse's blue nudes, brisk Alpine views and even the blinking sweep of a radar screen, exemplifying both the economy and rich suggestiveness of LeWitt's art. Paula Cooper Gallery, 534 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com. (Smith)
'Perfectly Damaged' (through Aug. 17) The works by 20 artists in this evocative exhibition are only apparently damaged. Graham Collins subtly alters old, beat-up boards. Valerie Hegarty's portrait of George Washington looks as if it survived a house fire. Michael DeLucia pairs a real, much dented washing machine with a plaster simulation of its undamaged state, suggesting a comparison of the imperfectly real and the Platonic ideal. Derek Eller Gallery, 615 West 27th Street, (212) 206-6411, derekeller.com. (Johnson)
'The Phantasm' (through July 29) With galleries selling so many neat, cute, stylish things these days, it's tempting to say that art has become just a fancy version of interior decorating. This group show more or less does say that, but it adds a few kinks to the domestic picture, with dirt-smudged walls, a camouflage-patterned sari and a film of an Aboriginal welfare mom juggling at-home visits from a pesky social worker and a disabled relative. Foxy Production, 623 West 27th Street, (212) 239-2758, foxyproduction.com. (Cotter)
- Jason Polan: 'Living and Working' (through July 29) This solo debut introduces an artist who is more or less drawing his way through life, as well as his own show. He will continue adding works to the display, which includes, among much else, a ''life-size'' drawing of the head of King Kong, a decorated but useable table-tennis table and (my favorite) a wall covered with smudgy drawings of dense black circles, large, medium and small. Nicholas Robinson Gallery, 535 West 20th Street, (212) 560-9075, nrgallery.com. (Smith)
- Jo Ractliffe: 'Terras do Fim do Mundo (The Lands of the End of the World)' (through Aug. 13) At first glance, this South African photographer's black-and-white shots of sun-baked Angolan landscapes look random and bland: rocks, dirt, scrubby trees; some handwritten signs but no people. Only when you read some of the titles -- ''Mass Grave at Cassinga,'' ''Minefield Near Mupa'' -- do you learn where people are, or once were, and the pictures snap into expressive focus. The Walther Collection Project Space, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 718, (212) 352-0683, walthercollection.com. (Cotter)
- Vladimir Tatlin: 'Monument to the Third International' (through July 29) Concocted by a founder of Russian Constructivism between 1915 and 1920, following close encounters with the Eiffel Tower and Picasso's guitar constructions in Paris, this tilting, spiraling, viaduct-like structure is one of early Modernism's most ambitious and best-known works of unrealized architecture, embodied by one of its biggest architectural models. Shown in the United States for the first time -- the oldest (1967) remake of the original model, which disappeared around 1932 -- it is dense with portents of 20th-century sculpture to come, from LeWitt's grids to Smithson's jetty. Tony Shafrazi, 544 West 26th Street, (212) 274-9300, tonyshafrazigallery.com. (Smith)
- B. Wurtz: 'Works 1970-2011' (through Aug. 5) This wryly beautiful, morally invigorating retrospective highlights the playful, plain-spoken sculptures and wall pieces of the artist known by the gender-vague signature B. Wurtz. Cobbled together from carefully selected scraps of wood and wire, plastic grocery bags, food packaging, buttons, shoelaces and the occasional porcelain sink leg, his acts of ingenious recycling channel Duchamp and Calder while bringing existing materials and artistic thought into an unusually clear, mutually enhancing alignment. Against the profligacy of so much of today's art world, they constitute a quiet refusal, a rebellious act of abstinence that results in its own kind of fullness. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropictures.com. (Smith)
Galleries: SoHo
'The Atomic Explosion: A Collection of Vintage Photographs' (through July 29) This show gathers 66 images of American nuclear tests and detonations, most of them conducted at the Nevada Test Site and on the Marshall Islands during the 1940s and '50s. The massing mushroom clouds in these images, photographed from miles away, are made to seem benignly organic. A giant portobello rises over Bikini Atoll; slender enokis sprout in Nevada. The news-service captions on many of the prints feel just as innocuous; one compares a double-capped cloud to ''a giant dumbbell.'' Peter Blum SoHo, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441, peterblumgallery.com. (Rosenberg)
Drew Heitzler (through July 29) This solo by a surf-obsessed, Los Angeles-based artist draws on source material both wet (surfer films and television shows) and dry (critical theory). The three-channel video installation ''Spiral Jetty/Crystal Voyager/Region Centrale (Bootlegged, Re-ordered, Combined, Sometimes More, Sometimes Less)'' appropriates 1970s classics by Robert Smithson, Michael Snow and George Greenough and finds the common ground in surfing, Land Art and structural film. Renwick Gallery, 45 Renwick Street, (212) 609-3535, renwickgallery.com. (Rosenberg)
'Wu Tsang' (through Aug. 5) Transgender identity, long the basis of a lifestyle, now the muscle behind a political movement, is finding a voice in mainstream art. The young artist Wu Tsang is one of its most visible representatives. Born in 1982, living in Los Angeles and self-identified as a ''butch queen in heels,'' he mixes art and politics in about equal proportions. A short film, set in a bar and called ''Damelo Todo'' (''Give Me Everything''), is the main event here. Clifton Benevento, 515 Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 431-6325, cliftonbenevento.com. (Cotter)
Galleries: Other
'Leidy Celeste Nicole' (through July 29) The title of this rousing three-person exhibition implies that you should be on a first-name basis with its artists, Leidy Churchman, Celeste Dupuy-Spencer and Nicole Eisenman. And you ought to, if only because they share so much with you: revealing sketchbooks, portraits of friends and lovers, proprietary recipes for painting as performance. Museum 52, 4 East Second Street, at the Bowery, East Village, (347) 789-7072, museum52.com. (Rosenberg)
'North by New York: New Nordic Art' (through Aug. 19) Emotional restraint is the rule with this diverse selection of works by 15 contemporary Scandinavian artists. Gunnel Wahlstrand's big, black-and-white, photorealistic ink drawing of a boy in jacket and tie reading at his bedroom desk is technically impressive and coolly depressing. Most engaging is a half-hour video like a home-movie scrapbook called ''My Life'' by Marja Viitahuhta. In a laconic voice-over, a fictional female narrator mentions significant events for each of her 99 years, ending with the stoic statement, ''I die.'' Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 779-3587, scandinaviahouse.org. (Johnson)
- 'Paul Clay' (through July 30) The ever-lively ceramics arts -- so currently fashionable they may be the new video -- deserve more orderly and respectful attention than this jampacked show and its punning title. (Paul Clay? All Klee?) Still, with some 45 artists spanning from elder statesmen like Ken Price and Ron Nagle to newly minted Columbia University M.F.A.'s to unfamiliar talents from Japan and South Africa, and works that range from jewelry and tea bowls to large-scale sculpture, it is an achievement that will expand anyone's horizons. Salon 94 Bowery, 243 Bowery, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 979-0001, salon94.com. (Smith)
Public Art
'Mark di Suvero at Governors Island: Presented by Storm King Art Center' (through Sept. 25) With 11 works spanning more than three decades, this show organized by Storm King Art Center -- the 500-acre sculpture park in the Hudson Valley -- is Mark di Suvero's biggest New York City survey since 1975. The all-outdoor exhibition works alongside the island's packed calendar of activities and festivals, offering bike riders and picnickers culture by osmosis. Plan to spend some time along the island's southern end, where four of Mr. di Suvero's best sculptures engage the waterfront and one another in invigorating ways. Governors Island, govisland.com. (Rosenberg)
Eva Rothschild: 'Empire' (through Aug. 28) At the southeast entrance to Central Park stands a colorful, tubular structure resembling a swing-set frame designed by spiders on LSD. Touching ground at 10 points on the cobbled plaza, its red, green and black striped posts rise at different angles into an airy web over 18 feet at its highest point. A playful riff on the ancient form of the triumphal arch, ''Empire'' will be a required photo-op for tourists and other visitors. Doris C. Freedman Plaza, Central Park, 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 223-7800, publicartfund.org. (Cotter)
Out Of Town
- The Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery, Skidmore College: 'Environment and Object: Recent African Art' (through July 31) Contemporary African art can mean many things: art made in Africa, or by someone from Africa living elsewhere, or by someone not from Africa but of African descent. All definitions apply in this stimulating show, as do variant readings of the rest of exhibition title. This is very much a show of objects, with several environments or installations. At the same time, the environment itself, meaning the natural world, under dire threat, is the subject of much of the art. 815 North Broadway, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., (518) 580-8080, tang.skidmore.edu. (Cotter)
- Neuberger Museum of Art: 'Art in Cameroon: Sculptural Dialogues' (through Aug. 14) With 30 sculptures, two from the Neuberger's holdings, this show isn't large, but some of the pieces are spellbinders, given plenty of room to work their magic. Highlights are two figures, one of a man, the other of a woman, both elderly, found in the same area of Cameroon in 1910, taken to different collections in Europe and reunited here, in silent conversation, after some 75 years. Purchase College, State University of New York, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y., (914) 251-6100, neuberger.org. (Cotter)
Last Chance
- Anacostia Community Museum: 'Word, Shout, Song: Lorenzo Dow Turner, Connecting Communities Through Language' (closes on Sunday) Housed in a converted movie theater in a predominantly African-American neighborhood that is a cab ride's distance from the National Mall, the Anacostia Community Museum is one of Washington's cultural secrets. Its exhibition on the scholar Lorenzo Dow Turner (1890-1972), who documented surviving traces of African languages and customs in modern African-American culture, is both an archival homage and a well-paced drama of ideas. Smithsonian Institution, 1901 Fort Place SE, Washington, (202) 633-4820, anacostia.si.edu. (Cotter)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Access to Tools: Publications From the Whole Earth Catalog, 1968-1974' (closes on Tuesday) Brainchild of the visionary techno-hippie artist Steward Brand, the Whole Earth Catalog did for counterculture youth in the '60s what the Sears catalog did for children of the Great Depression and what Google does for people of the Internet age: provide a way for ordinary citizens to connect with and make use of the global economy. This modest but stirring time capsule of an exhibition presents various editions of the catalog, along with a mind-expanding array of books, magazines and ephemera that influenced or exemplified its holistic mission. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Jessica Rohrer: 'Oakridge Road' (closes on Saturday) In Ms. Rohrer's many small, meticulous paintings on panels and paper of her domestic environment, every element -- from a half-squeezed tube of toothpaste in a crammed medicine cabinet to leaves on trees outside bay windows -- is defined cleanly and exactly. There is something odd about how industrious she is. It is as if a mad hausfrau or a Stepford wife had become obsessed with conducting an inventory of every single thing in her fanatically groomed world. P.P.O.W., 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 647-1044, ppowgallery.com. (Johnson)
- 'Time Again' (closes on Monday) In this contest between curatorial imagination and curatorial pretension, imagination mostly triumphs, especially if you give a wide berth to the arcane discussions in the catalog and a belabored show-within-the-show. The efforts of 18 artists from different generations supposedly explore ''the language of repetition'' and its ability to change our experience of the present, but mostly the familiar strategies of appropriation, collage, assemblage and quotation prevail. Still, the selections are often strong, especially in photo-based works and films including those by Emily Roysdon, Laure Prouvost, Rosemarie Trockel, Rosalind Nashashibi, Aurelien Froment and Steve Roden, whose varied contributions make him the show's star. SculptureCenter, 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, sculpture-center.org. (Smith)
'Annie Truitt and Hannah Wilke' (closes on Friday) Representing two strands of late-1970s art, projects by the minimalist sculptor Anne Truitt (1921-2004) and the Conceptual-performance artist Hannah Wilke (1940-1993) have more in common than you might expect. In a provocative 1978 series of photographs, Ms. Wilke strikes action-hero poses in the halls and on the rooftops of PS1 Contemporary Art Center while carrying a toy pistol and wearing nothing but high heels. Ms. Truitt's white-painted rectangular column ''Portal,'' from the same year, has a similar edge to its ethereal beauty. Alex Zachary, 16 East 77th Street, alexzachary.com, (212) 628-0189. (Rosenberg)
Richard Tuttle: 'What's the Wind' (closes on Friday) Working quite a bit larger than usual, this Post-Minimalist master of seeming trifles presents a series of deftly cobbled-together thingamajigs that charm and challenge. Each presents a kind of stage-set-like open volume of sculptural events patched together from colorful, lightweight materials and objects. The result is a somewhat slovenly, art-supplies Constructivism that is characteristically light, ephemeral and full of joy. Pace Gallery, 510 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-4044, thepacegallery.com. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ALEXANDER McQUEEN: SAVAGE BEAUTY': (through Aug. 7) A triumph for this British fashion designer -- who died at 40, by his own hand, last year -- and for the curator Andrew Bolton of the Met's Costume Institute, this career retrospective is ethereal and gross, graceful and manipulative, and poised on a line where fashion turns into something else. The operatic spectacle is pushed along by a soundtrack of wind, Handel and orgiastic moans, and has a holographic image of Kate Moss spinning like a moth in a flame at the center. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter) (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); RELIGION (86%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

PERSON: KATE MOSS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



796 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (TCM) STAR OF THE MONTH: SINGING COWBOYS Turner Classic Movies celebrates the tuneful heroes of the Wild West, like Gene Autry and Roy Rogers, who could ride, shoot and slug it out with the best of them before sliding out of the saddle, grabbing a guitar and serenading listeners with ballads like ''Tumbling Tumbleweeds'' and ''Happy Trails.'' This 26-movie tribute, shown on Fridays in July, continues with four films starring Dick Foran, a New Jersey-born, Princeton-educated band singer and radio performer signed by Warner Brothers in 1934 as its answer to Autry. The lineup begins with ''Moonlight on the Prairie'' (1935), in which an unemployed rodeo star takes on cattle rustlers. ''Song of the Saddle'' (1936), about a cowboy who goes on a quest to avenge his father's murder, follows at 9:15; ''Treachery Rides the Range'' (1936), in which a cowboy takes on buffalo hunters out to stir up trouble with Indians, at 10:30; and ''Land Beyond the Law'' (1937), about an innocent rancher who gets mixed up with rustlers, at 11:30. Two films with Monte Hale, above, a rodeo performer who took over for Autry at Republic Studios and was considered the last of the great singing cowboys, wrap up the evening: ''Home on the Range'' (1946), in which a cowboy tries to protect bears from ranchers who think they are killing cattle, at 12:30 a.m., and ''Under Colorado Skies'' (1947), about a bank teller who recognizes a robber as his brother, at 1:30. 
7 P.M. (Oxygen) LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE (2006) Abigail Breslin (above far left with, from left, Toni Collette, Steve Carell and Greg Kinnear) received an Academy Award nomination for her portrayal of the unlikely preteen princess Olive Hoover in this comedy about a family of everyday misfits determined to get a 7-year-old to a beauty pageant. Alan Arkin won an Oscar for best supporting actor as the heroin-snorting grandfather who helps put Olive's talent routine over the top; Mr. Kinnear and Ms. Collette play the parents driving the ravaged family and its equally dilapidated Volkswagen bus; Mr. Carell is Frank, Olive's suicidal gay uncle; and Paul Dano is Dwayne, the Hoovers' teenage son, who has decided to keep his mouth shut about the situation. Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called the film ''a tale about genuine faith and manufactured glory that unwinds in the American Southwest, but more rightly takes place at the terminus of the American dream, where families are one bad break away from bankruptcy.''
8 P.M. (Flix) ROGER DODGER (2002) Campbell Scott (near right, with Jesse Eisenberg) plays Roger Swanson, a slick-talking lothario, and Mr. Eisenberg is his 16-year-old nephew, Nick, who shows up at his New York office unannounced with the excuse that he has come to visit the campus of Columbia. An evening of drunken carousing ensues. Nick craves sexual experience, and who better to tutor him on picking up women than his uncle? Writing in The Times, Stephen Holden described the role of the oily Roger as ''a small coup for Mr. Scott, who is normally the quintessence of earnest sincerity on the screen.'' But it is Mr. Eisenberg (''The Social Network'') who steals the show. ''The young actor's portrayal of an innocent but adventurous high school student finds a lovely balance between crude adolescent avidity and an inner sweetness that contradicts everything Roger stands for,'' Mr. Holden wrote.
8:30 P.M. (TV5Monde) LA PEAU DE CHAGRIN (2010) Just as he is contemplating ending his life, a penniless writer (Thomas Coumans) receives an unusual gift: an object that grants wishes. The catch: With every desire that is fulfilled, his life grows shorter. Alain Berliner directed this period drama, adapted, with Alexandra Deman, from the novel by Balzac.
9 P.M. (Bravo) THE BREAK-UP (2006) Fresh from her divorce from Brad Pitt, Jennifer Aniston made this middling comedy about a couple who decide to end their relationship but won't give up their piece of prime real estate. Ms. Aniston's relationship with her co-star, Vince Vaughn, didn't work out in real life either.
9 P.M. (Animal Planet) WHALE WARS The Sea Shepherds bring the first leg of their anti-whaling campaign to a close, leaving the pilot Chris Aultman on the brink of physical and mental exhaustion. Meanwhile they receive an anonymous tip that leads to the whalers' factory ship, the Nisshin Maru.
10 P.M. (Starz) TORCHWOOD: MIRACLE DAY The group goes on the lam and faces a new enemy. Later it raids the PhiCorp headquarters, and Captain Jack (John Barrowman) confronts a mysterious evildoer. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); RODEOS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (73%); HEROIN (50%)

PERSON: STEVE CARELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); SOUTHWEST, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



797 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: The Lesser Depression

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
These are interesting times -- and I mean that in the worst way. Right now we're looking at not one but two looming crises, either of which could produce a global disaster. In the United States, right-wing fanatics in Congress may block a necessary rise in the debt ceiling, potentially wreaking havoc in world financial markets. Meanwhile, if the plan just agreed to by European heads of state fails to calm markets, we could see falling dominoes all across southern Europe -- which would also wreak havoc in world financial markets.
We can only hope that the politicians huddled in Washington and Brussels succeed in averting these threats. But here's the thing: Even if we manage to avoid immediate catastrophe, the deals being struck on both sides of the Atlantic are almost guaranteed to make the broader economic slump worse. 
In fact, policy makers seem determined to perpetuate what I've taken to calling the Lesser Depression, the prolonged era of high unemployment that began with the Great Recession of 2007-2009 and continues to this day, more than two years after the recession supposedly ended.
Let's talk for a moment about why our economies are (still) so depressed.
The great housing bubble of the last decade, which was both an American and a European phenomenon, was accompanied by a huge rise in household debt. When the bubble burst, home construction plunged, and so did consumer spending as debt-burdened families cut back.
Everything might still have been O.K. if other major economic players had stepped up their spending, filling the gap left by the housing plunge and the consumer pullback. But nobody did. In particular, cash-rich corporations see no reason to invest that cash in the face of weak consumer demand.
Nor did governments do much to help. Some governments -- those of weaker nations in Europe, and state and local governments here -- were actually forced to slash spending in the face of falling revenues. And the modest efforts of stronger governments -- including, yes, the Obama stimulus plan -- were, at best, barely enough to offset this forced austerity.
So we have depressed economies. What are policy makers proposing to do about it? Less than nothing.
The disappearance of unemployment from elite policy discourse and its replacement by deficit panic has been truly remarkable. It's not a response to public opinion. In a recent CBS News/New York Times poll, 53 percent of the public named the economy and jobs as the most important problem we face, while only 7 percent named the deficit. Nor is it a response to market pressure. Interest rates on U.S. debt remain near historic lows.
Yet the conversations in Washington and Brussels are all about spending cuts (and maybe tax increases, I mean revisions). That's obviously true about the various proposals being floated to resolve the debt-ceiling crisis here. But it's equally true in Europe.
On Thursday, the ''heads of state or government of the euro area and the E.U. institutions'' -- that mouthful tells you, all by itself, how messy European governance has become -- issued their big statement. It wasn't reassuring.
For one thing, it's hard to believe that the Rube Goldberg financial engineering the statement proposes can really resolve the Greek crisis, let alone the wider European crisis.
But, even if it does, then what? The statement calls for sharp deficit reductions ''in all countries except those under a programme'' to take place ''by 2013 at the latest.'' Since those countries ''under a programme'' are being forced into drastic fiscal austerity, this amounts to a plan to have all of Europe slash spending at the same time. And there is nothing in the European data suggesting that the private sector will be ready to take up the slack in less than two years.
For those who know their 1930s history, this is all too familiar. If either of the current debt negotiations fails, we could be about to replay 1931, the global banking collapse that made the Great Depression great. But, if the negotiations succeed, we will be set to replay the great mistake of 1937: the premature turn to fiscal contraction that derailed economic recovery and ensured that the Depression would last until World War II finally provided the boost the economy needed.
Did I mention that the European Central Bank -- although not, thankfully, the Federal Reserve -- seems determined to make things even worse by raising interest rates?
There's an old quotation, attributed to various people, that always comes to mind when I look at public policy: ''You do not know, my son, with how little wisdom the world is governed.'' Now that lack of wisdom is on full display, as policy elites on both sides of the Atlantic bungle the response to economic trauma, ignoring all the lessons of history. And the Lesser Depression goes on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); FAMILY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (91%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



798 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Blackstone's Quarterly Profit More Than Tripled

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
7:33 p.m. Updated
The Blackstone Group said Thursday that its profit more than tripled in the second quarter, bolstered once again by its huge real estate operations as the market for commercial property continued to improve. 
''Despite the challenges presented by slowing global economic growth, over all our portfolio companies and real estate investments performed well in the second quarter,'' Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of Blackstone, said in a statement.
The private equity firm reported a profit of $703.3 million, or 63 cents a share, in the latest quarter, compared with a profit of $205.2 million, or 18 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Blackstone reports its profit as economic net income after taxes, which excludes charges tied to the firm's initial public offering in 2007.
Those results exceeded analysts' expectations of a profit of 33 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
On a generally accepted accounting principles basis, Blackstone earned $86 million in the second quarter, in contrast to a loss of $193 million a year earlier.
Over all, Blackstone's revenue more than doubled in the quarter, to $1.3 billion, up from $550 million in the 2010 period.
Most of Blackstone's businesses continued to grow as the outlook for private equity brightened. According to Blackstone, the value of its holdings increased 9 percent in the quarter, with the company getting a lift in part from the public offerings of two portfolio companies, Kosmos and Vanguard. Revenue for the division increased to $399.4 million, from $83.9 million a year earlier.
The real estate group was a standout performer, as Blackstone bought the United States assets of the shopping mall operator Centro. The group recorded revenue of $648.5 million for the quarter, up from $208.5 million a year earlier.
Still, Blackstone is struggling in its smaller advisory business, despite the strength of the deal-making environment. Revenue for the division fell to $104.4 million from $135.6 million a year earlier.
Shares of Blackstone rose 74 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $17 on Thursday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (56%); ACCOUNTING (53%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



799 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Fuel Hurts Profits At US Air And United

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
United Continental Holdings and the US Airways Group posted weaker profits on Thursday, hit by higher fuel costs amid a murky outlook for travel demand.
The results for the two airlines topped Wall Street expectations, but the surprises were not enough to offset weakness perceived among analysts, which they attributed to increased fuel prices. 
''Revenues are going up, but costs are really, really up there. And that's because of fuel,'' said Helane Becker, an airline analyst with Dahlman Rose & Company.
She said travel bookings could be weaker in the second half of the year as economic weakness hampers the United States.
American Airlines on Wednesday reported a larger-than-expected loss, in contrast with the profits of its peers.
United Continental, formed from the 2010 union of United Airlines and Continental Airlines, said second-quarter net profit fell to $538 million, or $1.39 a share, from $611 million, or $1.57 a share, in the period a year earlier when the companies were still separate. Excluding one-time items, the company earned $1.49 a share, compared with Wall Street forecasts for $1.43.
Revenue rose 10.3 percent, to $9.81 billion, while fuel costs rose 30.2 percent, to $3.23 billion.
On a conference call with analysts and reporters, United Continental executives predicted demand for travel in the second half of 2011 would be consistent with that of the first half despite signs of a stalling economic recovery.
''With significant uncertainties here and abroad, we have responded appropriately, raising fares in the face of high fuel cost and reducing our planned capacity to reflect the challenging environment that we face,'' said Jeff Smisek, United Continental's chief executive.
After the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, United Continental reduced capacity by 11.8 percent on Japanese routes because of weaker travel demand. The cuts eroded second-quarter unit revenue by $100 million.
Second-quarter earnings at US Airways were $92 million, or 49 cents a share, compared with $279 million, or $1.41 a share, in the quarter a year earlier.
Excluding special charges, US Airways earned 56 cents a share, beating a Wall Street consensus forecast for 53 cents per share.
Revenue at US Airways rose 10.5 percent, to $3.5 billion. Its fuel bill rose 53.8 percent, to $948 million.
Scott Kirby, president of US Airways, said on a conference call with analysts and reporters that while the bookings outlook is uncertain, demand is solid.
''We continue to see an unusually volatile environment for bookings,'' Mr. Kirby said, noting the negative impact of political upheaval and natural disasters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TSUNAMIS (62%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (96%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (96%); UAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



800 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
PROPOSED SAUDI LAW SEEKS
TO STOP DISSENT, CRITICS SAY
A proposed Saudi counterterrorism law that would give the Interior Ministry sweeping powers and mandate jail sentences for criticizing the king would effectively squelch political dissent, human rights activists said. Page A4
THE ROLE OF ART IN AN ARREST 
Questions arose about the role of a stolen painting in the arrest of Goran Hadzic, the war crimes suspect who was apprehended near Belgrade, Serbia, after seven years in hiding. Page A5
SPAIN MAY LIMIT MIGRANTS
The Spanish government was moving toward endorsing restrictions on Romanians seeking to enter the country at a time of enormous unemployment in Spain. Page A6
SYRIA CRACKS DOWN IN CITY
Syrian security forces tightened their grip on the central city of Homs and its surroundings, firing machine guns randomly and arresting scores of people in house-to-house raids, residents and activists said. Page A8
FATALITIES IN MALAWI PROTESTS
At least 10 people have died during protests in Malawi, which has enjoyed relative peace and stability in the past decade but has been recently suffering from fuel shortages and price hikes. Page A8
National
DEBT CEILING UNCERTAINTY
HAS SOME STATES AT RISK
States whose economies rely on the federal government -- including Maryland and Virginia, home to many federal employees and contractors -- are at the greatest risk if there is no agreement in the federal debt ceiling debate. Page A10
A CITY AMID FEWER TREES
The sprawling green canopy that earned Atlanta the nickname ''The City in a Forest'' is significantly thinner after hundreds of trees have been damaged this year by unusually bad weather. Page A10
New York
MAYOR PLEDGES MILLIONSTO END COAL-FIRED PLANTS
Expressing frustration with the widespread paralysis on setting policies on climate change, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced that he would donate $50 million to the Sierra Club's campaign to shut down coal-fired power plants across the United States. Page A17
Obituaries
ZYGMUNT NAGORSKI, 98
The Polish emigre wrote widely about East-West relations during the cold war and founded an organization that addresses ethics in international business. Page A14
Business
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SELLS
ITS SHARES IN CHRYSLER
The federal government sold off its stake in Chrysler, giving majority control of the carmaker to Italy's Fiat SpA and leaving taxpayers $1.3 billion short of recovering the full investment they made two years ago to keep Chrysler afloat. Page B1
REPAIRING THE POSTAL SERVICE
Until the deficit negotiations took center stage this summer, several members of Congress had another idea about what they wanted to focus on: an overhaul of the Postal Service, which is on the brink of insolvency. Page B1
DRUG COMPANIES TO MERGE
Two of the nation's largest pharmacy benefit managers, Express Scripts and Medco Health Solutions, said they wanted to combine forces in a $29.1 billion merger that would account for about four of every 10 prescription claims. Page B1
Weekend
BRAZILIAN RAPPER BRINGS
VARIED STYLE TO CENTRAL PARK
Marcelo D2, a Brazilian rapper kicking off Brazil Summerfest in Central Park, combines different genres in unexpected ways, Larry Rohter writes. This year's festival will focus on some underappreciated genres and less familiar names. Page C1
Sports
MORE CRITICISM FOR WOODS,
THIS TIME FROM EX-CADDIE
Since Tiger Woods announced the firing of his longtime caddie, Steve Williams, on his Web site, he might be wondering about the non-disparagement clause in Mr. Williams's contract. Page B10
Op-Ed
David Brooks PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEBT CEILING (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); ETHICS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SENTENCING (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); WAR CRIMES (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); ART THEFT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); POWER PLANTS (68%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (61%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (61%); POSTAL SERVICE (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (52%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (81%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (81%); F (BIT) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (81%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (81%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); SPAIN (92%); MALAWI (92%); SERBIA (92%); SYRIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ITALY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

 
