

1 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 7; Page 74; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2068 words

HEADLINE: A Noteworthy Collection

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:
This selection of paperbacks is from the New & Noteworthy column since the 1991 summer reading issue. It includes novels, stories, biography, memoirs, history, essays and science.
 
A HOLE IN THE WORLD: An American Boyhood, by Richard Rhodes. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $10.) Memoirs of redemption from the survivor of a terrible childhood. 

A MIDWIFE'S TALE: The Life of Martha Ballard, Based on Her Diary, 1785-1812, by Laurel Thatcher Ulrich. (Vintage, $13.) The story of a woman who delivered as many as 50 babies a year.
 
A MIRACLE, A UNIVERSE: Settling Accounts With Torturers, by Lawrence Weschler. (Penguin, $9.95.) How Uruguay and Brazil came to grips with the fact that their governments kept torturers on the payroll.
 
A NATURAL HISTORY OF THE SENSES, by Diane Ackerman. (Vintage, $11.) Celebrations of the portals through which we experience the world.
 
A PLACE I'VE NEVER BEEN, by David Leavitt. (Penguin, $8.95.) Fictional love triangles built from a complicated array of gender permutations.
 
A YEAR IN PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Vintage, $10.) The travails of trying to fix up an old farmhouse in the south of France.
 
ALTERED LOVES: Mothers and Daughters During Adolescence, by Terri Apter. (Fawcett Columbine, $10.) Good news from a researcher about mother-daughter relationships.
 
AMERICAN CASSANDRA: The Life of Dorothy Thompson, by Peter Kurth. (Little, Brown, $12.95.) The biography of a journalist once called America's second most popular woman, after Eleanor Roosevelt.
 
ANIMAL DREAMS, by Barbara Kingsolver. (Harper Perennial, $10.95.) A woman goes home to a small town in Arizona to help her father, who seems to be coming down with Alzheimer's disease.
 
THE BABY DOCTORS: Probing the Limits of Fetal Medicine, by Gina Kolata. (Dell, $4.99.) How doctors are learning to treat fetuses in the womb.
 
THE BOOK OF EVIDENCE, by John Banville. (Warner, $8.99.) A scientist becomes a drifter, living a life of debauchery.
 
THE BOOK OF J. Translated by David Rosenberg. Interpreted by Harold Bloom. (Vintage, $12.) Did a woman help write the Old Testament?
 
CIRCLE OF FRIENDS, by Maeve Binchy. (Dell, $5.99.) College classmates seek sophistication in 1950's Dublin.
 
THE CLOSEST OF STRANGERS: Liberalism and the Politics of Race in New York, by Jim Sleeper. (Norton, $11.95.) Why racial separatism threatens to shatter New York City's ethnic mosaic.
 
THE CONTENT OF OUR CHARACTER: A New Vision of Race in America, by Shelby Steele. (Harper Perennial, $9.95.) Essays arguing that it is time for blacks to stop thinking of themselves as victims.
 
DOGEATERS, by Jessica Hagedorn. (Penguin, $8.95.) In a novel about Marcos's Philippines, the lives of the very rich can seem even more squalid than those of the very poor.
 
EAST IS EAST, by T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Penguin, $8.95.) A fugitive Japanese sailor hides out in an American artists' colony.
 
EDGE OF EDEN, by Nicholas Proffitt. (Bantam, $5.99.) A Nairobi police inspector teams up with a former big-game hunter to track down a poacher.
 
ENCOUNTERS & REFLECTIONS: Art in the Historical Present, by Arthur C. Danto. (Noonday/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $12.) These essays on art won the 1990 National Book Critics Circle Award for criticism.
 
EUNUCHS FOR THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN: Women, Sexuality and the Catholic Church, by Uta Ranke-Heinemann. (Penguin, $10.95.) A professor of religion attacks the celibate hierarchy of the Roman Catholic church.
 
THE EXPERIENCE OF PLACE, by Tony Hiss. (Vintage, $11.) What we are has a lot to do with where we are, the writer says.
 
FAMILY SINS & OTHER STORIES, by William Trevor. (Penguin, $8.95.) In one of these short stories, a recently married man runs off with his wife's promiscuous sister.
 
FRAGILE GLORY: A Portrait of France and the French, by Richard Bernstein. (Plume, $10.95.) In the minds of its people, the author says, France is still in its glory days.
 
FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS: A Town, a Team, and a Dream, by H. G. Bissinger. (Harper Perennial, $10.) A season in the football-crazy town of Odessa, Tex.
 
FRIEND OF MY YOUTH, by Alice Munro. (Vintage, $10.) Short stories by "a writer of extraordinary richness and texture," our reviewer said.
 
GENE DREAMS: Wall Street, Academia, and the Rise of Biotechnology, by Robert Teitelman. (Basic Books, $10.95.) Why the biotechnology industry has been better at cloning dollars than at coming up with useful products.
 
THE GENERAL IN HIS LABYRINTH, by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Translated by Edith Grossman. (Penguin, $9.95.) A dreamlike novel starring Simon Bolivar, liberator of South America.
 
GET SHORTY, by Elmore Leonard. (Dell, $5.99.) A Miami hoodlum finds himself perfectly at home in Hollywood.
 
GIRL WITH CURIOUS HAIR, by David Foster Wallace. (Avon, $9.95.) A beautiful young lesbian, the protagonist of one of these stories, is the queen of "Jeopardy" and the obsession of the game show's host, Alex Trebek.
 
GONE PRIMITIVE: Savage Intellects, Modern Lives, by Marianna Torgovnick. (University of Chicago, $14.95.) Reflections on the mix of fear and longing modern Westerners feel for the cultures they call primitive.
 
GREAT MAMBO CHICKEN AND THE TRANSHUMAN CONDITION: Science Slightly Over the Edge, by Ed Regis. (Addison-Wesley, $8.95.) Our reviewer called this "a very well-written compendium of some bizarre thoughts."
 
HIT MEN: Power Brokers and Fast Money Inside the Music Business, by Fredric Dannen. (Vintage, $11.) A journalist finds that it is often the love of money more than the love of music that causes records to be made.
 
HOCUS POCUS, by Kurt Vonnegut. (Berkley, $5.99.) This story of America in 2001 is "the most topical, realistic Vonnegut novel to date," our reviewer said.
 
IN A DARK WOOD WANDERING, by Hella S. Haasse. Revised and edited by Anita Miller from a translation by Lewis C. Kaplan. (Academy Chicago, $12.95.) A Dutch novel about feuds among the French aristocracy in the Hundred Years' War.
 
IN ALL HIS GLORY. The Life of William S. Paley: The Legendary Tycoon and His Brilliant Circle, by Sally Bedell Smith. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $15.) The legend of William S. Paley, the man who built CBS.
 
IN THE ABSENCE OF ANGELS, by Elizabeth Glaser and Laura Palmer. (Berkley, $5.99.) Ms. Glaser tells how she became infected with HIV through a blood transfusion and unwittingly passed it on to both her children.
 
THE INDIAN LAWYER, by James Welch. (Penguin, $8.95.) An Indian lawyer's political career is sabotaged by a disgruntled prisoner and his seductive wife.
 
THE INNOCENT, by Ian McEwan. (Bantam, $6.99.) In cold war Berlin, a bland young British clerk becomes involved in a plan to dig a tunnel from the American sector to the Russian.
 
KILLING MISTER WATSON, by Peter Matthiessen. (Vintage, $11.) Our reviewer called this story of the Everglades Peter Matthiessen's "most impressive novel."
 
LANDSCAPE PAINTED WITH TEA, by Milorad Pavic. (Vintage, $12.) More word games by the author of "Dictionary of the Khazars."
 
THE LAST STATION: A Novel of Tolstoy's Last Year, by Jay Parini. (Warner, $9.99.) A poet's fictional account of the feud over the copyrights to Tolstoy's work.
 
THE LIFE AND DEATH OF A DRUID PRINCE: The Story of Lindow Man, an Archaeological Sensation, by Anne Ross and Don Robins. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $10.95.) A historian and a chemist join forces to reconstruct the life of a 2,000-year-old druid corpse.
 
LIKE LIFE, by Lorrie Moore. (Plume, $8.95.) Stories about people stranded by love.
 
LITTLE WILSON AND BIG GOD: The First Part of the Confessions, by Anthony Burgess. (Grove Weidenfeld, $14.95.) The author of "A Clockwork Orange" tells why he thinks Roman Catholicism is the one true religion.
 
LOW CITY, HIGH CITY: Tokyo From Edo to the Earthquake, by Edward Seidensticker. (Harvard University, $14.95.) How Japan began its emergence as a world power.
 
LUDWIG WITTGENSTEIN: The Duty of Genius, by Ray Monk. (Penguin, $15.95.) "A vivid, clear, sympathetic and credible" portrait of a most unusual philosopher.
 
MAPPING OUR GENES: The Genome Project and the Future of Medicine, by Lois Wingerson. (Plume, $9.95.) Why deciphering the DNA blueprint is of more than academic interest.
 
MARY SHELLEY: Romance and Reality, by Emily W. Sunstein. (Johns Hopkins University, $15.95.) What "promises to be the definitive biography," our reviewer said.
 
METAPHOR & MEMORY: Essays, by Cynthia Ozick. (Vintage International, $12.) Essays about Italo Calvino, William Gaddis, J. M. Coetzee, Primo Levi, Saul Bellow and others.
 
MIDDLE PASSAGE, by Charles Johnson. (Plume, $8.95.) An emancipated and very educated slave stows away on a ship bound for Africa.
 
NEMESIS, by Rosamond Smith. (Onyx, $5.50.) After a composer-in-residence at a Connecticut school rapes a young male student, revenge comes in the form of a poisoned box of chocolates.
 
THE NEW RUSSIANS, by Hedrick Smith. (Avon, $12.50.) Our reviewer called this "the best work yet on the first half-decade of perestroika."
 
THE OTHER SIDE, by Mary Gordon. (Penguin, $8.95.) Five generations of the MacNamara clan gather at the family home in Queens.
 
PHILADELPHIA FIRE, by John Edgar Wideman. (Vintage, $10.) A novel inspired by the 1985 bombing of a Philadelphia row house occupied by a cult called Move.
 
THE POLITICS OF RICH AND POOR: Wealth and the American Electorate in the Reagan Aftermath, by Kevin Phillips. (Harper Perennial, $9.95.) Predictions that the excesses of the rich will lead to a backlash of populism.
 
POSSESSION: A Romance, by A. S. Byatt. (Vintage International, $12.) A romance about academic sleuths uncovering the secrets of a fictional Victorian poet modeled after Robert Browning.
 
RABBIT AT REST, by John Updike. (Fawcett, $5.99.) The end of the saga of Harry (Rabbit) Angstrom.
 
SATURDAY NIGHT, by Susan Orlean. (Fawcett Crest, $5.99.) A journalist's search for what is so special about those hours of mandatory recreation called Saturday night.
 
SEVENTH HEAVEN, by Alice Hoffman. (Fawcett Crest, $5.99.) In this novel a Long Island woman is rumored to be a witch.
 
SIMONE DE BEAUVOIR: A Biography, by Deirdre Bair. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $14.95.) Our reviewer called this "a demystifying biography of de Beauvoir -- the serious, frumpy mother of feminism."
 
SOLOMON GURSKY WAS HERE, by Mordecai Richler. (Penguin, $9.95.) A promising young scholar is ruined by his obsession with a clan of Canadian Jewish bootleggers.
 
THE TELEPHONE BOOK: Technology, Schizophrenia, Electric Speech, by Avital Ronell. (University of Nebraska, $20.) Is the telephone a symptom of a schizophrenic society whose main cultural activity is talking to itself?
 
THE THINGS THEY CARRIED, by Tim O'Brien. (Penguin, $8.95.) Semifictional reflections on memory, imagination and war.
 
TIME BOMB, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Bantam, $5.99.) A sniper is shot to death after opening fire on an elementary school playground.
 
TROPICAL GANGSTERS, by Robert Klitgaard. (Basic Books, $10.95.) A former official of the World Bank tells about trying to reform the economy of one of the poorest countries on earth.
 
THE TRUE AND ONLY HEAVEN: Progress and Its Critics, by Christopher Lasch. (Norton, $14.95.) In this finite world, the author says, the lower middle class is a victim of so-called progress.
 
WALTER WINCHELL: A Novel, by Michael Herr. (Vintage, $9.) A fictional account of America's most powerful gossip columnist.
 
WHAT I SAW AT THE REVOLUTION: A Political Life in the Reagan Era, by Peggy Noonan. (Ivy, $5.95.) A speechwriter tells what it was like to put words in the mouth of Ronald Reagan.
 
WHY THE RECKLESS SURVIVE . . . And Other Secrets of Human Nature, by Melvin Konner. (Penguin, $9.95.) Essays that include anthropological speculations on how drinking, smoking and other self-destructive behaviors have escaped the sieve of evolution.
 
WIDOW'S JOURNEY: A Return to the Loving Self, by Xenia Rose. (Owl/Holt, $9.95.) The widow of the cellist Leonard Rose tells how she learned to listen to music again without crying.
 
THE WITCHING HOUR, by Anne Rice. (Ballantine, $14.) Unbeknownst to her patients, a San Francisco neurosurgeon named Rowan Mayfair comes from a family of witches.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); FRANCE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); FRANCE (55%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); CHILDREN (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (63%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (61%); LIBERALISM (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



2 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2991 words

HEADLINE: CHRISTMAS BOOKS 1991;
ART

BYLINE: By John Russell; John Russell writes frequently on art and culture for The New York Times.

 BODY:
In the 1990's, as in the 1980's, the most conspicuous art book is the monumental catalogue that comes with an exhibition devoted to a single indisputably great artist. Such a catalogue has everything in its favor. It is a compendium of all that is newest and brightest (and sometimes most tendentious) in art scholarship. Thanks in particular to the entente cordiale that now links the museums of France with the museums of Britain and the United States, it may well be backed by two, three and sometimes four major institutions. It has in those museums an audience that may total 500,000 people, not to mention those who cannot get to the show but who will treasure the catalogue for a lifetime.
That is the context in which people have lately cherished the catalogues of exhibitions of Seurat (at the Metropolitan Museum in New York), Rembrandt (lately in Berlin, and due to open in Amsterdam this week), Gericault (now at the Grand Palais in Paris), Constable (at the Tate Gallery in London not long ago) and Toulouse-Lautrec (now at the Hayward Gallery in London, and later at the Grand Palais in Paris.) 
 For the individual scholar, working on his own between four walls and with no governmental or other official backup, these catalogues are big competition. But they have their drawbacks. There never was an exhibition, no matter how great, that did not lack one or two key pieces. What is said in the catalogue may well be superseded when the works of art actually get on the wall, all together.
Above all, there is a large and intelligent public that prefers a consecutive, smooth-running text from a single hand to the stops, the starts and the mingling of learned voices that are fundamental to the catalogue. Readers like to be in clever company, but they also like to be wooed without interruption. Scheherazade herself would never have made it through her 1,001 nights if her husband had started saying "Now wait a minute! What's your authority for that?" Happily, this season's books on art show that Virginia Woolf's "common reader" has not been forgotten.
SEURAT. By Robert L. Herbert with Francoise Cachin, Anne Distel, Susan Alyson Stein and Gary Tinterow. 459 pp. (Metropolitan Museum of Art/Abrams, $70.)
SEURAT. By Alain Madeleine-Perdrillat. 215 pp. (Skira/ Rizzoli, $75.) In recent years Seurat has been much written about. John Rewald's pioneering study of 1943 was given a sumptuous new edition last year. Books, articles and dissertations have proliferated. But Robert L. Herbert, a scholar at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts, has been on the track of Seurat since 1958, and it is to him that the bulk of the catalogue for the Metropolitan Museum show of Seurat was confided. Mr. Herbert did a glorious job, as did his colleagues. Order and reason prevail. Speculations of a sociopolitical sort are kept within the limits of good sense, and so are those that have to do with gender. The 230 works in the catalogue include some of the most beautiful paintings and some of the most original drawings ever produced. The 14 appendices include much weighty material, and the format allows almost every painting to be shown complete on a single page.
Ideal, one might say. But there is still a place for the discursive, well-researched and well-written text that sees Seurat as a poet in paint, rather than a partisan of this or that political, sociological or scientific point of view. That is Alain Madeleine-Perdrillat's position. To some it may seem old-fashioned, and it is true that much of what he has to say in his volume on the painter could have been said by a thoughtful and widely read esthete in Seurat's lifetime. But that is not to say that it is out of date. It may, in fact, be closer to Seurat's own ambitions than many of the speculations of our own day. In any case, this is a book that has both coherence and integrity and carries us with it from start to finish.
TOULOUSE-LAUTREC. By Richard Thomson, Claire Freches-Thory, Daniele Devynck and Anne Roquebert. 557 pp. (Yale University, $65.)
TOULOUSE-LAUTREC. By Bernard Denvir. 216 pp. (Thames and Hudson, Paper, $12.95.) Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec bears one of the most famous names in French 19th-century painting, and some of his prints have become so hackneyed, and been so often travestied in reproduction, that we almost shudder to think of them. By contrast, his paintings are so widely dispersed that for many visitors to the current exhibition in London, this may be the first and only time they will have access to the full range of his achievement.
The catalogue does a monumental job of resuscitation. The smoldering indecency of many of his most famous works is shown to be incidental to the wide gamut of human sympathy Lautrec had at his command. Letters, photographs, documents and the accounts of contemporary witnesses are all brought into play, and the result has a stately quality that may come as a surprise to many readers.
But as with Seurat, and at a much lower price, there is a new book that marshals much of the same material in a much smaller space. Bernard Denvir's account of Lautrec and his career is a model of condensation, and it has flashes of wit that Lautrec himself would have applauded.
AMERICAN VIEWS: Essays on American Art. By John Wilmerding. 357 pp. (Princeton University, $65.) John Wilmerding, formerly the deputy director of the National Gallery of Art in Washington and now the Sarofim Professor in American Art at Princeton University, is fortunate in his vocation. Born in Boston and schooled in New England, he learned to sail on Fishers Island Sound and has a house on Mount Desert Island. We cannot wonder that he identifies to the point of decorous frenzy with the northeastern coastline of this country from the Charles River to Canada. Where possible, he sees the area as benevolent and the art to which it has given rise as a healing art (in the case above all of Fitz Hugh Lane). Of the landscape of Rhode Island he says that ultimately it makes us "feel that little separates the real from the ideal. How could it be otherwise in a state that has place-names like Prudence, Patience, Providence, Hope, and Paradise?"
But he is also aware of what John Updike said in his "Witches of Eastwick," that the land of Rhode Island "holds manifold warps and wrinkles. Its favorite road sign is a pair of arrows pointing either way. Swampy poor in spots, elsewhere it became a playground for the exceedingly rich."
He is also aware of the savagery of nature as it was expressed in the 1860's and 70's by the painter William Bradford in his "Abandoned in the Arctic Ice Fields" and "Sealers Crushed by Icebergs." Nor is anything in the great grieving nature of Thomas Eakins -- arguably the greatest of American painters -- beyond his understanding. Mr. Wilmerding sees American painting in the late 19th century as a moral activity, one vital to the health of the Republic after the Civil War.
Many of the essays in this volume were written for exhibition catalogues, and once or twice their occasional nature shows through. (It was for this reader a mercy that the essay on George Bellows's boxing pictures pays only scant attention to its ostensible subject.) But on his home ground, Mr. Wilmerding never flags.
NETHERLANDISH DRAWINGS OF THE FIFTEENTH AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES AND FLEMISH DRAWINGS OF THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES IN THE PIERPONT MORGAN LIBRARY. By Felice Stampfle with Ruth S. Kraemer and Jane Shoaf Turner. 640 pp. (Pierpont Morgan Library and Princeton University, $160.) With every one of its 347 drawings reproduced, 154 comparative illustrations and a characteristically stringent text (much of it from Felice Stampfle's hand), this majestic and notably uncommercial book is a tribute not only to the Morgan's drawings collection but to Miss Stampfle. The curator of drawings at the Morgan from 1945 to 1984, she had no sooner retired as head of the department than she began on this catalogue and brought it to completion with great energy.
If the contents of the book are in some ways lopsided, it is in part because 244 of the 347 Netherlandish drawings were acquired by Pierpont Morgan from Charles Fairfax Murray (1849-1919), a British artist and amateur dealer. They represent what is by now a period taste, but to an unusual degree both Murray's likings and his attributions have borne the test of time. Among them was the largest single item in this catalogue -- the 103 drawings made by Otto van Veen (1556-1629) for a 1607 emblem book illustrating lines from Horace. Lively and versatile as van Veen was, he could not be said to bulk very large in the history of Netherlandish art.
With Van Dyck, Jordaens and Rubens, many readers will tread firmer ground. Rubens, in particular, is superbly represented. But fine drawing is not simply a matter of great names. "Portrait of a Man in a Cap With Ear Flaps" (No. 11 in the catalogue) was auctioned as a self-portrait ascribed to Hubert van Eyck when Fairfax Murray bought it in 1902. Miss Stampfle downgrades it to "Anonymous," but it's an arresting image, all the same. A companion volume on the Morgan's 17th-century Dutch drawings is on the way, and will be worth waiting for.
ARTISTS AND WARFARE IN THE RENAISSANCE. By J. R. Hale. 278 pp. (Yale University, $60.) This is that rarity among present-day books on art -- a solid, old-fashioned, unhurrying read on an original subject by a scholar of the first rank. As we look through the 345 illustrations, all of them pertinent and most of them unfamiliar, we realize that John Hale is treading where few have thought to tread before. Neither self-important nor competitive, the book moves at the pace of an untiring infantryman through Europe at a time -- the 15th and 16th centuries -- when warfare was an inescapable and almost omnipresent fact of life.
It is the author's contention that historians of the Renaissance have glanced only fitfully at "the connection between art and war, surely a major fact of human existence." He finds this all the stranger in that at the time "the visual arts had acquired an unprecedented command over description and expressiveness." "My concern," he goes on, "is to suggest how the pictorial imagination of the Renaissance responded, spontaneously or to order, to the outstanding visual and emotional aspects of warfare -- the troops themselves, and the battles, skirmishes and sieges that made up a conquering or defensive campaign."
Here and there, heroes like the Venetian captain general Gattamelata make cameo appearances (Donatello's great equestrian statue of him in Padua would simply have to be in the book). Stupendous battles turn up, likewise (how could this not be so when one of the artists discussed is Albrecht Altdorfer and another is Paolo Uccello?). But John Hale's concern is just as much with the everyday, down-to-earth routine of soldiering, whether in Germany, in Switzerland or Italy. Home life and whoring play out their dismal duet. So do economics, varying social status, bizarre costumery and the glorification (or its opposite) of the arts and evils of war.
None of this has gone out of style. The importance of this book derives from the fact that in our time, as in the 15th and 16th centuries, nobody can count on immunity from war. Who would have thought a year ago that the ancient inner city of Dubrovnik would be bombarded now? This book is also important because it shows with what a compassionate imagination this sempiternal human problem was regarded by artists whose very names may be unknown to us. That great collective informant, Anonymous, racks up around 70 appearances, along with Durer and Mantegna and Pieter Bruegel the Elder. "Artists and Warfare in the Renaissance" is irresistible reading, not least because every time we turn on the television news we see the up-to-the-minute equivalent of the slaughtered soldiers whom Urs Graf portrayed close on to 500 years ago.
RICHARD PARKS BONINGTON "ON THE PLEASURES OF PAINTING." By Patrick Noon. 315 pp. (Yale Center for British Art/Yale University, $85.)
EUGENE DELACROIX: Prints, Politics and Satire 1814-1822. By Nina Maria Athanassoglou-Kallmyer. 153 pp. (Yale University, $40.) When the English painter and watercolorist Richard Parkes Bonington died in 1828, his death was regretted in England. But in Paris he was mourned as no English artist has been mourned there, before or since.
For Eugene Delacroix, he was not only a close friend and traveling companion but a painter whose incomparable lightness of touch set him apart from all others. "You are a king of your domain," he would say to Bonington, "and Raphael could not do what you do." Among other French painters, Corot to the end of his life remembered Bonington as a key inspiration in his youth and the prototype of sincerity and directness in his attitude to landscape.
Among French poets, Theophile Gautier believed that the Romantic revolution in color owed as much to Bonington as the Romantic revolution in literature did to Shakespeare. More than 30 years after Bonington died, Charles Baudelaire upheld him as the very spirit of modernity.
Doubtless it helped that he did not have the status in Paris of a visiting Englishman. From the age of 15 until his death at a few days short of 26, he lived in France, thanks to his father's decision to leave England and set up in business, first in Calais and later in Paris. Even so, and even if we bear in mind the Anglomania that was widespread in France in the 1820's, there is something amazing about the speed and the unanimity with which Bonington was accepted in France in a way that neither Turner nor Constable was ever accepted.
Nothing of the kind has happened so far in the United States. Until the opening of the Yale Center for British Art in New Haven, Boningtons were rare in this country and Bonington had, at best, the status of an agreeable minor master. If anything can change that, it will be the current Bonington show at the Yale Center and, with it, the book-length catalogue by Patrick Noon, the center's curator for prints, drawings and rare books. Mr. Noon's book is a model of its kind. He knows the art. He knows the life. He knows the society that could not get enough of the art. And despite Bonington's reluctance ever to write a letter or keep a diary, Patrick Noon leaves us with the feeling that we have known him ever since he made his strange gangling entry in Paris in 1819 into the studio of Baron Antoine-Jean Gros, a renowned teacher in his day.
Who but Mr. Noon would have realized, for instance, the fact that Bonington's last watercolor bears within it a secret reference to the fact that his father's business activity in France was made possible by the illegal transportation of machinery from England?
As for Bonington's friend Eugene Delacroix, we can never learn enough about him. Nina Maria Athanassoglou-Kallmyer's book is based on a mere 17 political and satirical cartoons and prints. All of them date from between 1814, the year in which Delacroix turned 16, and 1822. About 80 more comparative illustrations are introduced in support of the author's thesis, which is that the Delacroix material goes far beyond juvenilia. The basic material remains thin, but to the social historian, as much as to the esthete, her book offers lively amusement.
JAMES ABBOTT MCNEILL WHISTLER: Pastels. By Robert H. Getscher. 199 pp. (Braziller, $65.) Such is the apparent fragility of Whistler's pastels that sometimes we hardly dare to look at them for fear they will blow away. How can those puffs and smudges and smears of powdered color survive a day, let alone 100 years and more? We might imagine, moreover, that his incomparably fastidious views of Venice in pastel were worked up in comfort from a series of privileged windows. Not at all. In the bitterly cold winter of 1879-80 in Venice, Whistler was at work in the open every evening, not long before sunset, with an icicle on his nose and the beginnings of an ulcerated throat to compound his discomfort. All this at a time when he had not even enough money for the fare back to London.
Yet of the pastels he made, even one of Whistler's severest critics had this to say: "A few touches of the pastel in various colors, and somehow the sky is aglow and the water dancing. The thing has been wrought as it were by pure magic."
It is also important that Whistler boasted of the brilliant color he had achieved in his Venetian views. That color is not stinted in this book, either in the Venetian studies or in those made in London.
A last word for Whistler's pastels of the female nude -- some of the most subtly seductive ever made. Even the ancient St. Anthony who fought off diabolical temptations in the desert would have trouble resisting some of the images in this book.
MILTON AVERY. By Robert Hobbs. Introduction by Hilton Kramer. 264 pp. (Hudson Hills, $75.) It is as a seraphic and ever welcome invader that Milton Avery (1885-1965) becomes part of the imaginative life of those who have come to love his work. What looks at first glance like an awkward, hesitant and elliptical approach to his subject matter is entirely deceptive. He sees more, feels more and tells more than almost any other American artist of his time. Avery caught the world off its guard and made it look all the better for it. Robert Hobbs, in a text blessedly free from hype, touches lightly on the many major artists of Avery's time with whom his work sometimes kept company. But Avery was finally his own man, and as he got older he got better and better. The 120 color plates in this book make the case for that judgment. So does the final phrase of Hilton Kramer's introduction to the book -- that this is "a very American kind of painting, unsolemn, disabused, suggesting a Yankee candor, yet everywhere touched by an uncommon imagination."

GRAPHIC: Drawing by Maurice Sendak (pg. 1); Anonymous drawing from the early 16th century, "Portrait of a Man in a Cup With Ear Flaps," (From "Netherlandish Drawings) (pg. 76); "Caricature of Halberdier and Boy Servant," woodcut by Hans Weiditz, about 1521. (From "Artists and Warfare In the Renaissance") (pg. 77)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); NETHERLANDS (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (90%); NETHERLANDS (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ART; REVIEWS; CHRISTMAS; GIFTS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); CITIES (68%); 

PERSON: RUSSELL, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



3 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 7; Page 21; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: CHRISTMAS BOOKS 1991;
Cooking

BYLINE: By Richard Flaste; Richard Flaste is working with Pierre Franey on a book and a public television series about cooking in America.

 BODY:
Although today's cookbooks may come in fancy trappings -- recipes elaborately garnished with a text of childhood memories, or travel anecdotes, or impressive erudition -- the dishes themselves are often simple and straightforward. Amid all that intellectual finery, one finds a yearning, in fact, for home cooking -- everybody's home cooking, from Peoria to Peru. It's as if the bad economic times had sent us all lurching toward hot soup and rice pudding.
A standout for the richness of what it has to say as well as for its no-nonsense, homey recipes is THE ART OF SOUTH AMERICAN COOKING by Felipe Rojas-Lombardi (504 pp., HarperCollins, $25). The chef of the Ballroom restaurant in New York City, Rojas-Lombardi died this fall at the age of 46, and I find myself somewhat lamely regretting now that it took me so long to become a fan of his. 
 An earlier book by Rojas-Lombardi, "Soups, Beautiful Soups," prefigured one of the strengths of the new book, its powerful collection of soup recipes. I'm thinking in particular of a knockout kale and potato soup (caldo verde) that comes from Brazil via Portugal, and also of a vibrant Chilean clam chowder (chupe de loco).
The clear recipes are accompanied by equally lucid commentary on the development of an American cuisine that began with the well-honed sensibilities of the Incas and was then overlaid with European and African influences. Felipe-Rojas grew up in Peru and learned to cook in the family kitchen. His book delivers on all of that experience with a sure instinct for doable dishes that will certainly find their way into many an everyday repertoire.
In more familiar territory for many cookbook readers is LA FRANCE GASTRONOMIQUE by Anne Willan (illustrated, 192 pp., Arcade, $35). Ms. Willan, the founder of the Varenne cooking school in Paris and Burgundy and a cookbook writer of some experience, offers an array of often rustic recipes (pork stew with leeks and the honey spice bread of Burgundy, for instance) that, in many instances, emerge directly from French family cooking. All are tied to the 10 regions she tours in a book meant to evoke one of the same name by the legendary food journalist Maurice Sailland, known as "Curnonsky, Prince des Gastronomes." Although hers is not as comprehensive as the Curnonsky book, it is glossier, with strong photographs by Michael Boys and an overall slickness that helps account for the relatively high price.
Ms. Willan points out early on that as urbane as France may seem from afar, it remains 85 percent rural. Her countrified orientation to France can yield some surprising recipes, like an ice cream made with Armagnac-macerated prunes that she was served at a farmhouse in Gascony. Now and then, "La France Gastronomique" offers driving instructions that are unsettlingly specific in the context of a recipe book: "For the last night in Alsace, the choice is wide," she writes. "You might wish to head back into the mountains to the Grand Hotel. . . ."
FLAVORS OF GREECE by Rosemary Barron (494 pp., Morrow, $25) leaves out the touring instructions but invokes a hunger for the country just the same. There are some nifty historical tidbits, like the anecdotal report that during the centuries of Turkish occupation, Greek chefs took refuge in monasteries and, to differentiate themselves from the black-hatted monks, began wearing white hats, the toques that came to signify cooks around the world.
Ms. Barron, who teaches Greek cooking in the United States, England and Greece, makes bold use of the traditional Greek ingredients and doesn't hold anything back to protect more delicate palates: to roast a chicken, in one instance, she fairly blankets a skinned bird with the Greek oregano rigani. Time and again she turns to honey, as in a fine dish of honey-glazed onions. And she clearly outlines the preparations of such standards as moussaka and the widely used egg and lemon sauce, avgolemono.
A book whose domain is about as narrow as it can get is RICE, THE AMAZING GRAIN: Great Rice Dishes for Every Day by Marie Simmons (288 pp., Holt, $24.95). Rice probably needs more than an effusive title to get the juices flowing the way pasta does (I'm not going to guess why pasta is so much more exciting than rice, given the fact that, if anything, it possesses even less character, but there you have it).
Nevertheless, by the time you get into Ms. Simmons' work -- this is her third cookbook -- you're glad to be there, learning about the defining differences in the various grains, the reason risotto gets so creamy (she describes the creaminess as a function of the stirring that breaks down each kernel's exterior) and how the aromatic varieties of rice get their nutty flavor.
Because rice is often the secondary or tertiary ingredient, the recipes don't exactly cry out to be in a book about rice. Savoy cabbage stuffed with sausage and rice and served with tomato and fennel sauce could have just as readily been in a book called "Fennel!" But "Rice, the Amazing Grain" did win my heart with a sumptuous collection of 10 rice pudding recipes: one that uses chocolate, another that employs orange zest, a third that cuts down on calories, one that's a kind of rice pudding ice cream, and it goes on.
Game used to be restricted mostly to outdoorsmen. Now, with the advent of widespread game farming, many relatively exotic food animals -- from quail and pheasant to buffalo -- are much more easily obtained. AMERICAN GAME COOKING: A Contemporary Guide to Preparing Farm-Raised Game Birds and Meats by John Ash and Sid Goldstein (illustrated, 288 pp., Aris/Addison-Wesley, $25) is a literate and well-informed attempt to capitalize on new culinary opportunities and bring them home to the everyday cook.
But it does have its odd moments. Where else are you likely to find a recipe for wild boar borscht? If you can't find boar, it says here, you can always substitute elk. The book is generous to a fault in its notion of wildness; the authors even try to justify a recipe for that wild and crazy beast, the escargot.
And I'm not sure how a duck that is merely a duck and not some exotic variety can qualify for this book, as it does in the roast lacquered duck with muscat-tamarind sauce. But in that case, as with so many others, the recipe is winning enough, so one might well choose not to debate the dish's inclusion here and just eat it. The book was published in association with Fetzer Vineyards, which employs both authors in other capacities, and the association causes them to concentrate on grapes that flourish in California in their wine recommendations.
In these days of heartiness and simplicity in cookbooks, HEARTLAND: The Best of the Old and the New From Midwest Kitchens by Marcia Adams (photographs by Dorothy Handelman, 258 pp., Clarkson Potter, $30) fits in beautifully. In Ms. Adams's rendering of the Middle West, it comes across as the broadly diverse region it is, capable of pirogi in Minnesota and Amish date oatmeal cake in Iowa.
Ms. Adams's previous book, "Cooking From Quilt Country," focused on the Amish and Mennonite cooking of the region. I prefer this new one, with its warm embrace of so many culinary traditions.
Janeen Aletta Sarlin may have grown up to be a New York cooking teacher, but she was raised on a farm in Minnesota and turns to her cooking roots for FOOD FROM AN AMERICAN FARM (illustrated, 367 pp., Simon & Schuster, $24.95). She extracts everything she can from her family's cooking through the generations. Here we have not just Mom, Dad, Grams and Granddad, but also Edna Nagel, a "distant cousin of Granddad's" who, we learn, "lived three-quarters of a mile south of the home place next to Gordon Snyder's farm."
Cooking from the book (keeping it simple, of course), I made one meal of barbecued spareribs, fried cabbage and custard pie. It was the kind of meal that would have been satisfying if it hadn't been so heavy. The cabbage, in particular, carried a price with it; it was sliced, sauteed and then blended with heavy cream. Flavorful, but too much -- for me, anyway.
Full and bleary, I returned to the book and kept leafing through it until I fell on a recipe that called for, among other things, 15 pounds of mutton tallow. It turned out that I had stumbled into the "Family Pharmacy" section and this was actually a recipe for soap -- not, as I read it the first time, soup. Good thing, too. I was about to get indignant.

GRAPHIC: Drawing by Maurice Sendak

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); PERU (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); PORTUGAL (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (93%); PERU (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); PORTUGAL (74%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; GIFTS; CHRISTMAS; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); WRITERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (74%); LITERATURE (72%); 

PERSON: FLASTE, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



4 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 7; Page 54; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 16354 words

HEADLINE: Notable Books of the Year 1991

 BODY:
This list has been selected from books reviewed since the Christmas Books issue of December 1990. It suggests only high points in the main fields of reader interest, and it does not include the titles chosen by the editors of The Book Review as the Best Books of 1991. Books are arranged alphabetically under subject headings.
 
Autobiography and Biography
 ADAM CLAYTON POWELL, JR.: The Political Biography of an American Dilemma. By Charles V. Hamilton. (Atheneum, $24.95.) Mr. Hamilton's diligent scholarship captures the full life of an exciting man, at once a civil rights pioneer and a buccaneer. 
 ANNE SEXTON: A Biography. By Diane Wood Middlebrook. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $24.95.) Ms. Middlebrook, a professor of English at Stanford, gives a balanced, insightful, intelligent account of how a poorly educated, mentally ill woman became a poet of distinctive and original gifts.
BERNARD SHAW. Volume Three: 1918-1950. The Lure of Fantasy. By Michael Holroyd. (Random House, $30.) Mr. Holroyd's commanding life of Shaw concludes with the years 1918-50 -- a long, strong period in which what amounted (for him) to decline would have been more than strenuous for anyone else.
BEST NIGHTMARE ON EARTH: A Life in Haiti. By Herbert Gold. (Prentice Hall, $19.95.) More a memoir than a travel book, the novelist's account of his sojourns in Haiti since the 1950's amply justifies his membership in the "fraternity of Haiti fanatics."
BLACK ICE. By Lorene Cary. (Knopf, $20.) Ms. Cary recounts her two years as a black student at a New England boarding school, analyzing both her new environment and her developing life in it.
BLOOD MEMORY. By Martha Graham. (Doubleday, $25.) Dictated in the final months of her life, this intense autobiographical memoir by the great choreographer who died in April at 96 goes far to explain how she got to be such a passionate creature; with about 100 photographs from her own collection.
THE BOOKMAKER'S DAUGHTER: A Memory Unbound. By Shirley Abbott. (Ticknor & Fields, $19.95.) A moving personal memoir that explores the histories of two clever people -- the author herself and the father to whom age, experience and disappointment brought not wisdom but bitterness.
BREAKING BARRIERS: A Memoir. By Carl Rowan. (Little, Brown, $22.95.) An anecdotally rich memoir of the pioneering African-American journalist.
BROKEN VESSELS. By Andre Dubus. (Godine, $19.95.) This first book of autobiographical (and often painful) essays by an outstanding fiction writer who lost the use of his legs in 1986 seeks to capture the contradictory demands of being an American man.
BY HER OWN HAND: Memoirs of a Suicide's Daughter. By Signe Hammer. (Soho Press, $18.95.) A fascinating and disturbing family memoir that carefully follows to their beginnings the threads of family history that ultimately converged in disaster.
CELIA: A Slave. By Melton A. McLaurin. (University of Georgia, $19.95.) Through ingenious use of local histories, newspapers, court records and census data, Melton McLaurin pieces together the horrifying and shocking life story of a woman who was purchased as a slave at age 14, raped repeatedly by the man who bought her, and eventually hanged for killing him while warding off his advances.
COLD WARRIOR. James Jesus Angleton: The CIA's Master Spy Hunter. By Tom Mangold. (Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) An account of the C.I.A.'s 20-year chief of counterintelligence and his futile, obsessive, destructive hunt for a Soviet mole in the agency.
COMING INTO THE END ZONE: A Memoir. By Doris Grumbach. (Norton, $19.95.) This curmudgeonly journal, begun at age 70, includes a list of "things I now actively dislike."
COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT: A Memoir. By Clark Clifford with Richard Holbrooke. (Random House, $25.) A life and a career of extraordinary scope, recalled by the polished lawyer from St. Louis whose 45-year career as public and private adviser to generations of Democrats discreetly made him one of the century's most influential men.
A DAMNED SERIOUS BUSINESS. By Rex Harrison. (Bantam, $21.95.) A last observation on a life in comedy, written shortly before his death. Though sometimes vulgar and arrogant, Rex Harrison always worked at what he did best: presenting a superior facade over calculated insecurity. This book is another demonstration of his art.
DEADLINE: A Memoir. By James Reston. (Random House, $25.) The memoirs of a reporter, editor and columnist of The New York Times who was effective, fair and much admired in each position.
DICKENS. By Peter Ackroyd. (HarperCollins, $35.) A conventional, in some respects old-fashioned biography, full of well-told anecdotes, that remains open to the peculiarity of its subject.
THE DIVINE SARAH: A Life of Sarah Bernhardt. By Arthur Gold and Robert Fizdale. (Knopf, $30.) An encyclopedic knowledge of things French underlies this splendid evocation of the actress who ruled Western theater from the 1870's to well into our century.
THE DREAM AT THE END OF THE WORLD: Paul Bowles and the Literary Renegades in Tangier. By Michelle Green. (HarperCollins, $22.95.) A carefully researched life and times of Tangier's most famous resident and the circles that moved around him: outlaws, socialites, highly advanced fun seekers.
ENTRANCES & EXITS: A Life in and Out of the Theatre. By Norris Houghton. (Limelight, $29.95.) A consistently amusing, pertinent and touching book of memoirs at 81 by the illustrious producer, director, artistic director and conscience of Off Broadway.
FORD MADOX FORD. By Alan Judd. (Harvard University, $27.50.) A friendly, vivifying biography of the great editor, meticulous novelist, unwise lover and disorganized Englishman (1873-1939).
FORTUNATE SON. By Lewis B. Puller Jr. (Grove Weidenfeld, $21.95.) The dark and bitter, but ultimately redemptive, autobiography of a Vietnam veteran, the son of a renowned Marine general, who was horribly mutilated in combat.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS. By William S. McFeely. (Norton, $24.95.) A detailed and finely written portrait of the former slave who became a great orator, civil rights crusader and editor.
FROM THE OLD MARKETPLACE. By Joseph Buloff. (Harvard University, $19.95.) Posthumously published, this charming memoir by a veteran of the Yiddish and Broadway theaters is cast as a tale of coming of age in prerevolutionary Lithuania.
GOD, COUNTRY, NOTRE DAME. By Theodore M. Hesburgh with Jerry Reedy. (Doubleday, $21.95.) The life of the priest best known as the president of the University of Notre Dame reads like oral history -- easily, at times breezily, as if the author were just chatting about himself.
GOETHE: THE POET AND THE AGE. Volume One: The Poetry of Desire (1749-1790). By Nicholas Boyle. (Clarendon/Oxford University, $37.50.) This insightful study, unsurpassed in thoroughness, of the greatest German poet takes its subject up to the return to Weimar from his second trip to Italy.
HENRY CLAY: Statesman for the Union, by Robert V. Remini. (Norton, $35.) A historian's biography of the Kentuckian whose compromises could not avert the Civil War but whose program of commercial development assured the North would win it.
THE HOUSE OF BARRYMORE. By Margot Peters. (Knopf, $29.95.) A candid chronicle of America's great theatrical trio -- reclusive Lionel, difficult Ethel, absolutely impossible John.
IN THE EYE OF THE STORM: The Life of General H. Norman Schwarzkopf. By Roger Cohen and Claudio Gatti. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $19.95.) Solid, readable reporting by a Times reporter and an Italian journalist who provide numerous insights into the general's origins, character and psychology.
I REMEMBER BALANCHINE: Recollections of the Ballet Master by Those Who Knew Him. By Francis Mason. (Doubleday, $25.) Eighty-four people -- some famous, many not -- relate what Balanchine was to them, giving a real sense of his achievement.
I REMEMBER NOTHING MORE: The Warsaw Children's Hospital and the Jewish Resistance. By Adina Blady Szwajger. (Pantheon, $20.) An unsentimental memoir, at once damning and uplifting, by a doctor who did her duty until it could no longer be done.
THE JAMESES: A Family Narrative. By R. W. B. Lewis. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) Mr. Lewis handsomely presents Henry, William and all the others interacting with one another in a family that was virtually a brilliant American nation of its own.
J. EDGAR HOOVER: The Man and the Secrets. By Curt Gentry. (Norton, $29.95.) A journalist who is a master of detail and description tells us at length what Hoover said and did in his remarkable career, leaving judgment mainly to us.
KING EDWARD VIII: A Biography. By Philip Ziegler. (Knopf, $24.95.) The well-known story of how the Fairy Prince became a mortal takes on new freshness and excitement in this frank and generous portrait that draws on hitherto unavailable sources.
KOOP: The Memoirs of America's Family Doctor. By C. Everett Koop. (Random House, $22.50.) A revealing and provocative autobiography by the former Surgeon General who got his job by being opposed to abortion, then astonished everyone -- especially his sponsors -- by talking and acting like a physician.
A LIFE OF HER OWN: A Countrywoman in Twentieth-Century France. By Emilie Carles, as told to Robert Destanque. (Rutgers University, $19.95.) Rural canniness is conveyed in the voice of a peasant in this memoir, immensely popular in France, of a sharp-tongued country teacher who fought to keep the Alps unspoiled.
LONE STAR RISING: Lyndon Johnson and His Times, 1908-1960. By Robert Dallek. (Oxford University, $30.) Mr. Dallek's Johnson is a champion of the New Deal whose "sense of unrelenting deprivation" made him do anything to win the glittering prizes.
LUDWIG WITTGENSTEIN: The Duty of Genius. By Ray Monk. (Free Press, $29.95.) A vivid, credible, substantial biography of the philosopher, one of the world's smartest and oddest men.
LITTLE MAN: Meyer Lansky and the Gangster Life. By Robert Lacey. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) An entertaining, credible, detailed biography of the last of America's great Jewish gangsters.
MADAM VALENTINO: The Many Lives of Natacha Rambova. By Michael Morris. (Abbeville, $35.) Michael Morris, a Dominican friar, gives us the familiar story of Natacha Rambova (nee Winifred Shaughnessy), the hated woman who married a sultry Rudolph Valentino and made him over as a dandy, but this time it's from her point of view.
MARTHA: The Life and Work of Martha Graham. By Agnes de Mille. (Random House, $30.) Long a friend and critic of Martha Graham, never a collaborator, Agnes de Mille offers a biography with many important characters Graham neglected to mention.
ME: Stories of My Life. By Katharine Hepburn. (Knopf, $25.) An unsaintly, selfish, narcissistic and often ruthless Katharine Hepburn emerges in this rambling, stream-of-consciousness memoir.
MEMOIRS. By Kingsley Amis. (Summit, $25.) Low opinions of nearly everybody and everything that has crossed Sir Kingsley's path, rendered in his everyday dazzlingly addictive prose.
MOTHERS OF PSYCHOANALYSIS: Helene Deutsch, Karen Horney, Anna Freud, Melanie Klein. By Janet Sayers. (Norton, $24.95.) This valuable biography of four of the pioneering women of psychoanalysis shows how their lives shaped their theories.
NIXON. Volume Three: Ruin and Recovery, 1973-1990. By Stephen E. Ambrose. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) The concluding volume of a massive three-part biography of Richard Nixon lays out the facts chronologically -- from his landslide re-election, to Watergate and beyond -- in an accretion of detail that has a repellent illuminating effect.
THE NOBLE SAVAGE: Jean-Jacques Rousseau, 1754-1762. By Maurice Cranston. (University of Chicago, $32.50.) This second volume of Mr. Cranston's handsome and elegant biography finds Rousseau, the uneasy misanthrope who was arguably the strangest of the French Enlightenment thinkers, as he was writing "The Social Contract" and "Emile" but before he began the "Confessions."
ORWELL: The Authorized Biography. By Michael Shelden. (HarperCollins, $25.) This life of Orwell furnishes new details of the career of a writer the influence of whose honesty and decency has been far greater than his literary accomplishments.
THE PATRIARCH: The Rise and Fall of the Bingham Dynasty. By Susan E. Tifft and Alex S. Jones. (Summit, $24.95.) This prodigy of research and interviewing is both a history of the family that built a distinguished newspaper empire in Louisville, Ky., and a psychodrama of the squabbling siblings who destroyed it.
PATRIMONY: A True Story. By Philip Roth. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) Mr. Roth brings his gift for attention and prodigious storytelling powers to his father's struggle with a fatal brain tumor in this agonized, often comic, infallibly realistic account.
PHIL STONE OF OXFORD: A Vicarious Life. By Susan Snell. (University of Georgia, $45.) A genial biography of the man who taught and nurtured William Faulkner, then vanished into his fiction.
PAUL SCOTT: A Life of the Author of "The Raj Quartet." By Hilary Spurling. (Norton, $24.95.) A thorough, thoughtful treatment of the conflicted man whose success waited for the end of his career.
PRIDE OF FAMILY: Four Generations of American Women of Color. By Carole Ione. (Summit, $19.95.) The captivating story of a black aristocratic clan and the mother-daughter conflicts within it, fought out with spunk, energy and resourcefulness.
RIGHTEOUS PILGRIM: The Life and Times of Harold L. Ickes, 1874-1952. By T. H. Watkins. (Holt, $35.) A huge yet charming biography of the articulate reform politician, F.D.R.'s Secretary of the Interior, who did so much to define liberalism in his time.
RIVETHEAD: Tales From the Assembly Line. By Ben Hamper. (Warner, $19.95.) A roughshod, vehement autobiographical essay that conveys the atmosphere and the malaise of a generation that cannot find satisfaction or self-esteem in factory work.
SERIOUS PLEASURES: The Life of Stephen Tennant. By Philip Hoare. (Hamish Hamilton/Viking, $29.95.) A biography both scholarly and hilarious of a truly amazing creature, a man who aspired only to be decorative and succeeded tremendously.
SQUANDERED FORTUNE: The Life and Times of Huntington Hartford. By Lisa Rebecca Gubernick. (Putnam, $24.95.) The riches-to-rags saga of a remarkably privileged American who never quite found his calling while losing nearly all his money.
SOMEDAY. By Andrew H. Malcolm. (Knopf, $22.) A Times reporter's delicate, engrossing account of his own involvement with issues of death and dying as a journalist and as a son.
STALIN: Breaker of Nations. By Robert Conquest. (Viking, $25.) A superb portrait for the general reader of the mean-spirited little man who terrorized the Soviet Union for 30 years.
THE STARCHED BLUE SKY OF SPAIN: And Other Memoirs. By Josephine Herbst. (HarperCollins, $19.95.) Autobiographical fragments from the Spanish Civil War and other scenes.
A TERRIBLE LIAR: A Memoir. By Hume Cronyn. (Morrow, $23.) Not quite an autobiography by the distinguished actor; a self-investigation into what makes him go and how seriousness and industry transformed him from a Canadian patrician into a star.
TRAPS, THE DRUM WONDER: The Life of Buddy Rich. By Mel Torme. (Oxford University, $21.95.) A loose, anecdotal hybrid biography and memoir of the boyish and prickly drummer known for his self-immolatory solos, written by his friend.
TURNING JAPANESE: Memoirs of a Sansei. By David Mura. (Atlantic Monthly, $22.95.) A journey of discovery by a poet and third-generation Japanese-American who explores the sense of difference that haunts him both at home and in Japan.
U AND I: A True Story. By Nicholson Baker. (Random House, $18.) Intermittently obsessed with John Updike, Mr. Baker embarked on this peculiar book-length personal essay, a remarkable journey of literary analysis and self-discovery. Strange, delightful.
WANDERING GHOST: The Odyssey of Lafcadio Hearn. By Jonathan Cott. (Knopf, $24.95.) An "informal biographical reader," in the author's phrase, about the eccentric American journalist who ended his days in 1904 as a substantial Japanese citizen and talented interpreter of its culture to the West.
WOODY ALLEN: A Biography. By Eric Lax. (Knopf, $24.) A journalist's fond chronicle of the film maker's life captures his essential, Bob Hope-versus-Ingmar Bergman tension.
VLADIMIR NABOKOV: The American Years. By Brian Boyd. (Princeton University, $29.95; $35 after Dec. 31.) The second volume of Mr. Boyd's definitive biography fully redeems its length (783 pages) and immense detail by its unraveling of Nabokov's endless verbal puzzles and its relation of them to his life.
 
Children
 AMAZING GRACE. By Mary Hoffman. Illustrated by Caroline Binch. (Dial, $13.95.) Grace, the spunky heroine, wants to be Peter Pan in the class production and, because example rather than psychobabble proves to be the best method of instruction, she eventually succeeds. (Ages 5 to 8)
AT THE CROSSROADS. Written and illustrated by Rachel Isadora. (Greenwillow, $13.95.) The children in a South African shantytown are waiting for their fathers to return from their work in the mines. They wait and wait, and come the morning, come the fathers, who carry their rejoicing children from the road back to the shacks. (Ages 4 and up)
A BOY WANTS A DINOSAUR. By Hiawyn Oram. Illustrated by Satoshi Kitamura. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $13.95.) Buying a pet for Alex at the Dino-Store is simple, but dinosaur care and maintenance prove to be a tall order. Fred (for that is her name) pines for the swamp. The setting is a wittily detailed, wildly animated London cityscape. (Ages 5 to 9)
EIGHT HANDS ROUND: A Patchwork Alphabet. By Ann Whitford Paul. Illustrated by Jeanette Winter. (HarperCollins, $14.95.) Only incidentally an alphabet book, this sampler uses 26 quilt patterns to piece together a charming history of quilts and the early American life that inspired them. The illustrations, boldly colored and gently washed out, are just right. (Ages 8 and up)
FOLLOW THE DREAM. Written and illustrated by Peter Sis. (Knopf, $15.) This wonderful large-format storybook, as it describes Christopher Columbus and his journeys, manages to show us how vision can penetrate stone, how, where there seems to be nothing but drabness and defeat, the mind finds possibility. (Ages 5 to 10)
THE FROG PRINCE, CONTINUED. By Jon Scieszka. Illustrated by Steve Johnson. (Viking, $14.95.) Now a nice yuppie-looking man in a suit and tie, the unhappily married Frog Prince packs his bag and leaves, but the witches he meets are apparently heavily influenced by Stephen Sondheim. The illustrations are witty and spooky at the same time. (Ages 5 and up)
THE LAMPFISH OF TWILL. By Janet Taylor Lisle. Illustrated by Wendy Anderson Halperin. (Orchard, $15.95.) On the fictional coast of Twill the hazards of rock and riptide are thought too great, it seems, for any but the most foolish and arrogant to hunt the lampfish, yet those who do finally get one are fantastically celebrated. Here is a fresh and fascinating intellectual thriller. (Ages 10 and up)
LYDDIE. By Katherine Paterson. (Lodestar, $14.95.) The battleground is the Industrial Revolution in America, specifically the mills of Lowell, Mass., in the mid-1840's; and the heroine, Lydia Worthen, is in many ways larger than life in order to endure what she endures. The novel is full of life, full of lives, full of reality. (Ages 10 and up)
OOH-LA-LA: (Max in Love). Written and illustrated by Maira Kalman. (Viking, $14.95.) The Parisian adventures and amour of Max Stravinsky, the dog poet, are described in rapid-fire English that has the flavor of fractured French, and the clever illustrations include parodies of famous French paintings. Witty throughout. (All ages.)
TAR BEACH. Written and illustrated by Faith Ringgold. (Crown, $15.) Cassie Louise Lightfoot literally flies over the frustrations of her life as she gets to float up over the New York City of the 1930's, and wear the George Washington Bridge "like a giant diamond necklace." The book and its illustrations carry an air of triumph. (All ages)
 
Crime
 THE CAVALIER CASE. By Antonia Fraser. (Bantam, $17.95.) This seventh book in the Jemima Shore mystery series involves the ghost of a 17th-century poet, an upscale tennis club and modern London society. Ms. Fraser writes with zest and verve, and her primary interest is people.
THE CITY WHEN IT RAINS. By Thomas H. Cook. (Putnam, $19.95.) A brooding, haunting work about a bizarre suicide and a freelance photographer who covers Manhattan after dark, when its guard is down.
DOUBLE DOWN. By Tom Kakonis. (Dutton, $19.95.) Mr. Kakonis's second novel about an ace gambler, a contemplative, overeducated poker pro. The author is a flashy stylist who knows his game.
DOWNTOWN. By Ed McBain. (Morrow, $20.) All the twists, turns and surprises one expects from the author, merged in a wildly comic plot and situations -- and all without the 87th Precinct.
GOOD NIGHT, MR. HOLMES. By Carole Nelson Douglas. (Tom Doherty/Tor, $18.95.) The author, who has a saucy style and a delicious sense of humor, purports to tell how Irene Adler outfoxed Sherlock Holmes in "A Scandal in Bohemia."
"H" IS FOR HOMICIDE. By Sue Grafton. (Holt, $17.95.) In this engaging, fast-paced story of urban gang violence, white-collar crime and friendship between women, the detective Kinsey Millhone takes on the identity of a reckless vamp .
THE KILLING OF THE SAINTS. By Alex Abella. (Crown, $19.) A strange and powerful first novel, narrated by a court investigator and written in an ornate style, about the Cuban-American subculture in Los Angeles.
MAXIMUM BOB. By Elmore Leonard. (Delacorte, $20.) Mr. Leonard outdoes himself in his 29th novel, in which Maximum Bob, a crackpot judge in Palm Beach County, Florida, tries to get rid of his wife with two personalities by bringing an alligator home.
PASTIME. By Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $19.95.) In this unexpectedly moving book, the 18th of Robert B. Parker's Spenser detective novels, we get glimpses of the righteous detective's childhood and his initiation into manhood.
PRIOR CONVICTIONS. By Lia Matera. (Simon & Schuster, $17.95.) Willa Jansson, one of the most articulate and surely the wittiest of women sleuths at large in the genre, finds herself compromised in a securities fraud case involving 60's radicals.
RUMPOLE A LA CARTE. By John Mortimer. (Viking, $18.95.) The eighth collection of stories about the barrister; that they continue to be so enjoyable is a mark of both the author's craftsmanship and his natural talent.
A SCANDAL IN BELGRAVIA. By Robert Barnard. (Scribners, $17.95.) A shocking tale of murder and corruption in which Mr. Barnard never loses control of his polished form.
THE SHADOW OF THE SHADOW. By Paco Ignacio Taibo 2d. (Viking, $18.95.) This spellbinding novel, which takes place in Mexico City in 1922, is about a little band of intellectuals caught up in a political conspiracy.
THE SONG DOG. By James McClure. (Mysterious Press/Warner, $17.95.) In a fresh-as-paint prequel, set in 1962, we learn how the author's ratchet-tongued South African detective, Lieut. Tromp Kramer, met his Zulu partner, Sgt. Mickey Zondi.

 
Current Affairs and Social Commentary
 BACKLASH: The Undeclared War Against American Women. By Susan Faludi. (Crown, $24.) A bracing look, by a reporter for The Wall Street Journal, at the reaction against women's progress -- led, she argues, by a shrewd coalition of conservative forces, abetted by movie makers, writers and journalists.
THE BEAUTY MYTH: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women. By Naomi Wolf. (Morrow, $21.95.) A sweeping, vigorous book about the ways women enslave themselves -- and their bank accounts -- to an industry that promises physical perfection.
BERLIN JOURNAL: 1989-1990. By Robert Darnton. (Norton, $22.95.) With an appreciation for Berlin's cynical humor, Mr. Darnton interprets the significance of the days of the collapsing wall.
BLOOD OF BROTHERS: Life and War in Nicaragua. By Stephen Kinzer. (Putnam, $24.95.) Mr. Kinzer, who reported for The Times from Nicaragua from 1983 to 1989, examines United States policy and Sandinista rule during the period; both get failing marks.
BRINGING DOWN THE GREAT WALL: Writings on Science, Culture, and Democracy in China. By Fang Lizhi. (Knopf, $19.95.) A comprehensive selection of the written (and spoken) words of the witty, passionate, tenacious and articulate Chinese scientist and dissident who at present is living in the United States.
CHAIN REACTION: The Impact of Race, Rights, and Taxes on American Politics. By Thomas Byrne Edsall with Mary D. Edsall. (Norton, $22.95.) A candid, insightful account of the fortunes of the Democratic Party in the last 30 years that finds the party's powerful reform wing detached from reality and its Congressional membership lacking creativity and the will to act.
CHUTZPAH. By Alan M. Dershowitz. (Little, Brown, $22.95.) Afraid of rocking the boat, too many American Jews see themselves as guests in someone else's land, an attorney and civil libertarian argues; the solution, he says, is more chutzpah!
THE DEMOCRATIC WISH: Popular Participation and the Limits of American Government. By James A. Morone. (Basic Books, $22.95.) Mr. Morone contends that Americans don't really know what they want government to do; consequently, reform efforts merely add more unresponsive layers of government.
DEN OF THIEVES. By James B. Stewart. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) In his forceful, detailed, spicy record of the insider-trading scandals of the 1980's, James B. Stewart, the front-page editor of The Wall Street Journal, pulls no punches and exposes the corruption of capitalist markets.
THE END OF LAISSEZ-FAIRE: National Purpose and the Global Economy After the Cold War. By Robert Kuttner. (Knopf, $22.95.) An economics correspondent for The New Republic takes issue with what he views as the myth of a pure market economy and suggests an alternate reality, in a richly detailed book that will have to be taken into account by anyone assessing the present state of the world economy.
FEMINISM WITHOUT ILLUSIONS: A Critique of Individualism. By Elizabeth Fox-Genovese. (University of North Carolina, $24.95.) An insightful and important book by a professor of history at Emory University, challenging the culture's embrace of absolute individual right and feminism's unquestioning acceptance of it.
FOR THE COLOR OF HIS SKIN: The Murder of Yusuf Hawkins and the Trial of Bensonhurst. By John DeSantis. (Pharos, $18.95.) Mr. DeSantis, a reporter both relentless and compassionate, spikes many myths in his account of the killing and its aftermath.
THE GERMAN COMEDY: Scenes of Life After the Wall. By Peter Schneider. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $21.) Caustic notes and reflections by a German liberal on the first year of unification.
THE GOOD SOCIETY. By Robert N. Bellah, Richard Madsen, William M. Sullivan, Ann Swidler and Steven M. Tipton. (Knopf, $25.) This passionate sequel to "Habits of the Heart" is a defense of participatory democracy, arguing that democratic reform is linked to personal transformation.
THE HIDDEN WAR: A Russian Journalist's Account of the Soviet War in Afghanistan. By Artyom Borovik. (Morgan Entrekin/Atlantic Monthly, $19.95.) One of the first Soviet journalists to give his readers an honest glimpse of the war, Mr. Borovik concerns himself in these reports with the conflict's cost in lives and spirit.
HIGH ROLLERS: Inside the Savings and Loan Debacle. By Martin Lowy. (Praeger, $24.95.) A clear, detailed, impartial analysis of the savings and loan mess that blames no single person, institution or incident but traces the roots of the debacle to the double-digit inflation and double-digit interest rates of the 1970's.
THE HOLE IN THE FLAG: A Romanian Exile's Story of Return and Revolution. By Andrei Codrescu. (Morrow, $21.) The poet and essayist Andrei Codrescu gives us a gripping account of the mysterious Romanian revolution and a crisp portrait of the country's disquieting contrasts.
HOPE AND HISTORY: Why We Must Share the Story of the Movement. By Vincent Harding. (Orbis, $10.95.) A collection of essays about the larger meanings of the civil rights movement, written in an incantatory prose that does honor to the religious imperative of the movement itself.
INDIA: A Million Mutinies Now. By V. S. Naipaul. (Viking, $24.95.) Mr. Naipaul's third nonfiction book about India is an elegant documentary tour in which no detail is insignificant; it is also, for a remarkable change, moderately hopeful for the nation's future.
IN SEARCH OF HUMAN NATURE: The Decline and Revival of Darwinism in American Social Thought. By Carl N. Degler. (Oxford University, $24.95.) A masterly guide to the history of the nature/nurture debate and the reverberations of Darwinian ideas in both popular and academic social thinking.
INSIDE CENTRAL AMERICA: Its People, Politics, and History. By Clifford Krauss. (Summit, $19.95.) An acute survey by a New York Times correspondent who finds that the region's problems are of native growth, though United States meddling hasn't helped.
IN THE REALM OF A DYING EMPEROR, by Norma Field. (Pantheon, $22.) Absorbing reporting by a scholar, half Japanese by parentage, on three incidents in which Japanese society treated nonconformity as simply perverse.
THE LAST FINE TIME. By Verlyn Klinkenborg. (Knopf, $19.95.) Mr. Klinkenborg's talent for evoking time and place shines in this respectful, affectionate account of a family (into which he later married) and a neighborhood in a Buffalo that is no more.
MAKE NO LAW: The Sullivan Case and the First Amendment. By Anthony Lewis. (Random House, $25.) A New York Times columnist's splendid account of a libel suit against The Times that resulted in one of the most significant of all press-freedom cases.
MOLLY IVINS CAN'T SAY THAT, CAN SHE? By Molly Ivins. (Random House, $23.) An irreverent and often hilarious collection of previously published pieces on everything from Debutantes for Christ to the Iran-contra affair.
THE MONEY MACHINE: How KKR Manufactured Power & Profits. By Sarah Bartlett. (Warner, $24.95.) A readable and insightful examination of the company that perfected the leveraged buyout, by a Times reporter who doesn't hesitate to identify heroes and villains.
THE OUTLAW STATE: Saddam Hussein's Quest for Power and the Gulf Crisis. By Elaine Sciolino. (John Wiley & Sons, $22.95.) A popular history, by a reporter for The Times, of the rise to power and methods of control of Mr. Hussein in his state and the region.
PANAMA: The Whole Story. By Kevin Buckley. (Simon & Schuster, $21.95.) A journalist's history of the bizarre relationship between a bemused United States and the slippery, unsavory but sometimes, alas, useful Panamanian dictator Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega.
PRAYING FOR SHEETROCK. By Melissa Fay Greene. (Addison-Wesley, $21.95.) An exciting book, reported intimately and extensively, about a black community in rural Georgia that rose from passivity to civil-rights militancy and subsided again to calm over the last decade and a half.
THE PRIZE: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, and Power. By Daniel Yergin. (Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) A comprehensive, careful book that pulls together reams of information in its analysis of modern society's dependence on a resource it cannot control.
THE PROMISED LAND: The Great Black Migration and How It Changed America. By Nicholas Lemann. (Knopf, $24.95.) A skillful, energetic account of the migration of 6.5 million black people from rural South to urban North between 1910 and 1970.
REFLECTIONS OF AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION BABY. By Stephen L. Carter. (Basic Books, $23.) A Yale law professor, himself a beneficiary of affirmative action programs, argues that what we say we want -- diversity -- won't be attained by enforcing orthodoxy, on this subject or on others.
THE SAMSON OPTION: Israel's Nuclear Arsenal and American Foreign Policy. By Seymour M. Hersh. (Random House, $23.) This readable and fascinating study of the dynamic driving Israel's not-so-secret nuclear program and the United States' reluctance to stop it reveals that Israel may have hundreds of thousands of nuclear warheads pointing at Soviet and Arab targets and that its nuclear forces may have been put on alert thrice.
SAVAGE INEQUALITIES: Children in America's Schools. By Jonathan Kozol. (Crown, $20.) The author of "Death at an Early Age" argues vigorously that our public schools, as public facilities, should offer the same quality of education everywhere.
STREETWISE: Race, Class, and Change in an Urban Community. By Elijah Anderson. (University of Chicago, $19.95.) A sharply observed stoop-level study of two Philadelphia neighborhoods -- one gentrifying, the other in total collapse.
THERE ARE NO CHILDREN HERE: The Story of Two Boys Growing Up in the Other America. By Alex Kotlowitz. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $21.95.) A sensitive and unremitting survey of the life and times of Lafeyette and Pharoah Rivers, their family and the Chicago housing project they live in.
THREE BLIND MICE: How the Networks Lost Their Way. By Ken Auletta. (Random House, $25.) An account of the decline of the Big Three since 1984, replete with detail that gives cause for wonder how the networks maintained their oligopoly as long as they did.
THE TRUE AND ONLY HEAVEN: Progress and Its Critics. By Christopher Lasch. (Norton, $25.) Contentious, provocative and polemical, Mr. Lasch argues that the idea of progress as now understood by liberals rests on untenable beliefs about expanding consumption to which lower-middle-class values are the antidote.
TWILIGHT OF EMPIRE: Inside the Crumbling Soviet Bloc, by Robert Cullen. (Atlantic Monthly, $21.95.) Collected essays, mostly from the last two years, by a Moscow correspondent whose sense of what was happening has proved remarkably reliable.
THE UNITED STATES OF AMBITION: Politicians, Power, and the Pursuit of Office. By Alan Ehrenhalt. (Times Books/Random House, $23.) In this brilliant analysis of what's wrong with politics today, Alan Ehrenhalt argues that we are governed by a generation of ambitious career officeholders who care only about winning the next election.
A VERY THIN LINE: The Iran-Contra Affairs. By Theodore Draper. (Hill & Wang, $27.95.) A richly detailed, formidably researched analysis concludes that the Iran-contra cover-up was no aberration, but evidence of what can happen when a President overreaches himself.
WHY AMERICANS HATE POLITICS. By E. J. Dionne Jr. (Simon & Schuster, $22.95.) No wonder the public is fed up with politics and government: both liberals and conservatives are ideologically bankrupt and still fighting the battles of the 1960's, according to a journalist's cogent, stimulating analysis.
WHY GORBACHEV HAPPENED: His Triumphs and His Failure. By Robert G. Kaiser. (Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) A journalist's skillful chronicle of Mikhail S. Gorbachev's era offers a gripping and insightful analysis of a noble experiment gone awry.
 
>Essays, Criticism and Letters
 THE CROOKED TIMBER OF HUMANITY: Chapters in the History of Ideas. By Isaiah Berlin. (Knopf, $22.) Wise and learned essays that echo one of the historian's favorite themes -- pluralism versus utopianism. Pluralism is recommended.
FIEDLER ON THE ROOF: Essays on Literature and Jewish Identity. By Leslie Fiedler. (Godine, $19.95.) The bad boy of literary criticism weighs his assimilationism against his preoccupation with Jewish figures and themes.
GOOD BOYS AND DEAD GIRLS: And Other Essays. By Mary Gordon. (Viking, $19.95.) Like her novels, Ms. Gordon's essays are sustained by a powerful moral vision, and are at their best when life, art and Irish Catholicism are the subjects.
LETTERS FROM A LIFE: The Selected Letters and Diaries of Benjamin Britten, 1913-1976. Edited by Donald Mitchell and Philip Reed. (University of California, $125.) This absorbing two-volume collection documents better than ever before Britten's place in the artistic world and his life with the tenor Peter Pears.
MODERNITY ON ENDLESS TRIAL. By Leszek Kolakowski. (University of Chicago, $24.95.) A historian of philosophy argues in these handsome, pessimistic essays that our 20th-century sense of crisis will not go away; we'll just have to muddle through.
MY FRANCE: Politics, Culture, Myth. By Eugen Weber. (Belknap/Harvard University, $24.95.) Delightful, highly personal essays by a resolutely untheoretical Romanian-born historian whose life's work has transformed the study of the French past.
NEW WORLD AVENUE AND VICINITY. By Tadeusz Konwicki. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.95.) A sort of writer's diary of the 1980's by the great Polish jester and grump, confronting the nation's apparently hopeless predicament with ironic detachment.
ODD JOBS: Essays and Criticism. By John Updike. (Knopf, $35.) Mr. Updike's fourth volume of higher journalism shows a mind at once crammed and uncluttered, with courage to tackle any subject.
OPERA AND ITS SYMBOLS: The Unity of Words, Music, and Staging. By Robert Donington. (Yale University, $29.95.) A book-length essay by a performer and scholar that argues for a fusion of production elements into an archetypal, myth-endowed whole.
PARLIAMENT OF WHORES: A Lone Humorist Attempts to Explain the Entire U.S. Government. By P. J. O'Rourke. (Morgan Entrekin/Atlantic Monthly, $19.95.) Angry, boisterous essays that ridicule elected representatives as "yea-saying ballot leeches," the Supreme Court as "nine old nags in black muumuus" and the members of the press as "America's professional bed-wetting class."
A PASSIONATE APPRENTICE: The Early Journals, 1897-1909. By Virginia Woolf. Edited by Mitchell A. Leaska. (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $24.95.) The scrupulously edited contents of seven notebooks that show a teen-ager growing into a writer.
SIGNS OF THE TIMES: Deconstruction and the Fall of Paul de Man. By David Lehman. (Poseidon, $21.95.) A poet, critic and journalist examines a literary philosophy and the flap that ensued when the Nazi-shaded past of a leading practitioner showed up.
THE USES OF ERROR. By Frank Kermode. (Harvard University, $24.95.) Reviews published between 1967 and 1989 by a scholar and critic who knows how to speak to common readers, and likes to.
 
Fiction
 THE ACCIDENT. By David Plante. (Ticknor & Fields, $18.95.) Mr. Plante's 12th novel is a relentlessly compressed little story of moral analysis about faith and loss of faith, with the mystery of God's intentions for humanity at its center.
AFRICAN VISAS: A Novella and Stories. By Maria Thomas. (Soho, $19.95.) Funny, poignant, incisive, sexy, polished and enlightening fiction that makes wise use of its author's life in Africa.
AFTER SHOCKS/NEAR ESCAPES. By Stephen Dobyns. (Viking, $19.95.) This intelligently conceived novel begins with a massive earthquake in Chile in 1960 and examines the shakiness of the ground we stand on, both literally and metaphorically.
ALL-BRIGHT COURT. By Connie Porter. (Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) A beautiful and profound first novel about a community of black steelworkers and their families whose hopes have been betrayed by the violence of the 1960's and the layoffs of the 70's.
ALONE. By David Small. (Norton, $19.95.) Mr. Small's third novel concerns a damaged family yearning for love that's not to be had; its big themes are parenthood, solitude, the loss of the beloved.
ANGIE, I SAYS. By Avra Wing. (Warner, $16.95.) A spirited, engaging first novel about a half-Italian, half-Jewish, wisecracking 30-year-old secretary from Brooklyn in search of a better life.
BET THEY'LL MISS US WHEN WE'RE GONE. By Marianne Wiggins. (HarperCollins, $19.95.) Virtuoso short stories, all dealing with the limits of memory, language and thought.
BEYOND THE CURVE. By Kobo Abe. (Kodansha, $18.95.) The dozen stories in Mr. Abe's first story collection in English place his boundlessly confident protagonists in impossible situations.
BEYOND DESERVING. By Sandra Scofield. (Permanent Press, $21.95.) This wickedly observant novel circles around the pains and joys of a family of macho men and the women who are married to them; it suggests that rogues may indeed be amiable, or at least tolerable.
BLUE RIVER. By Ethan Canin. (Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) A novel in acute prose, charged with uncomfortable but inescapable family themes, confronting a good brother with a bad one.
BODY SNATCHER. By Juan Carlos Onetti. (Pantheon, $23.) A fabulist's delight, published in Spanish in 1964, by a Uruguayan novelist whose nominal protagonist pursues two ambitions: to achieve "a perfect woman and a perfect bordello."
THE BOOK OF SAINTS. By Nino Ricci. (Knopf, $19.) A beautifully paced first novel, almost mythological in its impact, about a poor Italian mountain village and a family left behind by immigration.
BRAZZAVILLE BEACH. By William Boyd. (Morrow, $21.) This clever novel by a champion storyteller concerns vanity, marriage, civil war, chaos theory and a woman who's better at loving chimps than humans.
BRIEF LIVES. By Anita Brookner. (Random House, $20.) A meditative, quiet novel that reveals the depth beneath the calm of a woman's constricted life, by a sovereign creator of such novels.
BROTHERLY LOVE. By Pete Dexter. (Random House, $22.) The tragic life story, told with vividness and force, of a working-class man condemned by fate and the rules of his society -- a South Philadelphia neighborhood where life is brutal and unforgiving.
THE CAMPAIGN. By Carlos Fuentes. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.95.) A vast social, intellectual and political panorama appears in this highly entertaining novel, which focuses on the decade of Latin America's independence struggle, from 1810 to 1820.
A CERTAIN FINKELMEYER. By Felix Roziner. (Norton, $19.95.) A profoundly comic novel about life in the Soviet Union before glasnost and all that, finished -- but not published -- in 1975.
CHICAGO LOOP. By Paul Theroux. (Random House, $20.) A hard, unrelentingly bleak novel that is an exploration of one man's violent sexual nightmare, his crime and his punishment.
CHINA BOY. By Gus Lee. (Dutton, $19.95.) This hilarious and poignant coming-of-age novel filters the customs and mores of the American present through those of the Chinese past.
CITY OF THE MIND. By Penelope Lively. (HarperCollins, $20.) An elegant, erudite novel that evokes the successes and misfortunes encoded in the bricks and paving stones of London.
CLOSING ARGUMENTS. By Frederick Busch. (Ticknor & Fields, $19.95.) Mr. Busch's 15th book of fiction is a tight, dense, dark, complicated novel about child abuse, sex, violence, war and law.
THE CONTINUING SILENCE OF A POET: The Collected Stories of A. B. Yehoshua. (Penguin, Paper, $9.95.) The realities and contradictions of Israeli life, plumbed by a renowned storyteller.
CRACKING INDIA. By Bapsi Sidhwa. (Milkweed Editions, $18.95.) Ms. Sidhwa, a Pakistani who writes in English, offers heartbreak and slapstick in this novel about an 8-year-old girl caught up in the horrors of the partition of India in 1947.
A CURE FOR DREAMS. By Kaye Gibbons. (Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, $14.95.) An engagingly personal novel set in the North Carolina community of the author's two previous novels; this anecdotal tale of three generations of family history reveals a maturity of vision.
A DANGEROUS WOMAN. By Mary McGarry Morris. (Viking, $19.95.) In Ms. Morris's second novel an emotionally disturbed young woman struggles against traps of circumstance and personality that offer no real hope of escape.
DARCY'S UTOPIA. By Fay Weldon. (Viking, $18.95.) An unflinching satirical novel whose heroine's zeal to remodel the world makes her a media sensation and the founder of a new religion.
DAUGHTERS. By Paule Marshall. (Atheneum, $19.95.) This brave novel examines the state of black people's lives in the United States and on a Caribbean island, and calls urgently for revising the relations between men and women.
DEAD CERTAINTIES: (Unwarranted Speculations). By Simon Schama. (Knopf, $21.) The death of a British general and the murder of a Massachusetts doctor are the actual incidents around which a historian dexterously weaves multiple accounts, both real and invented, that blend the historical and the poetic.
THE DIAMOND LANE. By Karen Karbo. (Putnam, $21.95.) A wonderfully comic novel about savvy Hollywood outsiders trying to get in -- and to juggle their disastrous but funny love lives.
DIRTY TRICKS. By Michael Dibdin. (Summit, $18.) Mr. Dibdin's fifth novel, a highly sophisticated entertainment set in present-day Britain, mines the themes of sex, murder and social climbing with much more and better humor than is customary.
DRINKING DRY CLOUDS: Stories From Wyoming. By Gretel Ehrlich. (Capra, Paper, $9.95.) Eloquent and often comic linked pieces set in the West in the 1940's, in which the humor derives not from wit but from the characters' bewilderment.
EVE'S TATTOO. By Emily Prager. (Random House, $19.) The heroine in this admirable and compassionate novel is a magazine columnist named Eve who becomes so obsessed with a strikingly similar-looking woman in a photograph taken at Auschwitz in 1944 that she has her arm tattooed with the ID number of the prisoner and makes up various biographies for her.
FATHER MELANCHOLY'S DAUGHTER. By Gail Godwin. (Morrow, $21.95.) The author's 10th book of fiction -- about a young woman, her minister father and the woman who abandons them both -- has a number of real satisfactions.
THE FIREMAN'S FAIR. By Josephine Humphreys. (Viking, $19.95.) Set on a barrier island off the South Carolina coast, this warm and comfortable novel about love and community is far better written than most.
A FOREIGN WOMAN. By Sergei Dovlatov. (Grove Weidenfeld, $17.95.) A wild and, alas, posthumous novel whose Soviet yuppie heroine ends up in the brightly evoked emigre world of Queens.
THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. By Reynolds Price. (Atheneum, $21.95.) Three longish short stories that invoke the meditative and retrospective powers of the form to show us people whose interior lives enable them to survive in the ordinary world.
1492: The Life and Times of Juan Cabezon of Castile. By Homero Aridjis. (Summit, $21.95.) A powerful historical novel that re-creates the woeful year in history when Granada fell and the Jews were expelled from Spain -- and, oh yes, when Columbus sailed westward for the Indies.
GERONTIUS. By James Hamilton-Paterson. (Soho, $19.95.) A wonderfully readable fictional account of a little-examined period in the life of the English composer Edward Elgar.
A GLIMPSE OF SCARLET: And Other Stories. By Roxana Robinson. (Edward Burlingame/HarperCollins, $18.95.) A stunning first collection of stories, chiefly concerning lost familial love and the struggle to rebuild it.
THE GOLD BUG VARIATIONS. By Richard Powers. (Morrow, $25.) With stunning virtuosity, Mr. Powers's novel employs every trick of structure, metaphor and pun to inspect the career of a young scientist who ends up a dead-end computer programmer.
THE GOLDIN BOYS: Stories. By Joseph Epstein. (Norton, $19.95.) The first book of fiction by this notable essayist is made of beautifully realized short stories, set mostly in Chicago and among Jews, rich in the experience of families, lovers and money.
GRINGOS. By Charles Portis. (Simon & Schuster, $18.95.) A high-rolling picaresque novel propelled by the author's love for his characters, for Mexico and for the eccentricity and pathos of both.
LOS GUSANOS. By John Sayles. (HarperCollins, $22.95.) This fierce, profuse novel follows an exile family in Miami through a complex history of heroic and disastrous efforts at Cuban liberation.
HARLOT'S GHOST. By Norman Mailer. (Random House, $30.) Mr. Mailer's whopping (1,328 pages) novel, full of real as well as imaginary people, takes an epic-size look at world and national events over the last few decades from the point of view of three aristocratic Yankees who work for the C.I.A.
HEAT: And Other Stories. By Joyce Carol Oates. (William Abrahams/Dutton, $21.95.) The best of the stories in this collection effectively confine great chunks of rage and hatred on the psychological, internal level.
AN HONORABLE PROFESSION. By John L'Heureux. (Viking, $19.95.) Mr. L'Heureux's 13th book is a risky combination: a thriller, a philosophical, melodramatic novel of sexual possession, a satire of small-town mores in New England.
HOW THE GARCIA GIRLS LOST THEIR ACCENTS. By Julia Alvarez. (Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, $16.95.) This collection of interwoven stories by a Dominican-American writer captures the immigrant's experience of being on the threshold between alienation and assimilation.
HOW TO MAKE AN AMERICAN QUILT. By Whitney Otto. (Villard, $18.) This intricate little first novel about a women's quilting circle in central California is at once a history of social change, a tribute to an art form mostly reserved for women and a demonstration of how individual lives fit together in a community.
HUNTING THE WILD PINEAPPLE. By Thea Astley. (Putnam, $19.95.) No one fares very well in these compassionate but dark-edged stories by the prolific Australian novelist.
IMMORTALITY. By Milan Kundera. (Grove Weidenfeld, $21.95.) Mr. Kundera's thoughtful, somewhat daunting novel of reflection and discourse is full of stylistic and narrative felicities.
IN THE CENTER OF THE NATION. By Dan O'Brien. (Atlantic Monthly, $21.95.) Set in South Dakota, this eloquent novel revolves around issues both ecological and humane -- the unsettling of the land, the values of the loners who undertake a rancher's life.
THE INDIAN LAWYER. By James Welch. (Norton, $19.95.) This fine fourth novel by Mr. Welch (himself a Native American) is his first to follow the complex relationships of whites and Indians into the world of white-collar professionals.
INHERIT THE MOB. By Zev Chafets. (Random House, $19.) A hilarious novel in which a respectable journalist's uncle Max dies, leaving him the last of the great American Jewish gangs.
JERNIGAN. By David Gates. (Knopf, $21.) Mr. Gates's profoundly sorrowful first novel concerns a father crippled by alcoholism, emotional turmoil -- or drought -- and perpetual irony.
JUMP: And Other Stories. By Nadine Gordimer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $20.) Stories full of Ms. Gordimer's usual moral and political intelligence, her painstaking eye for detail, her commitment to social redemption.
KISS OUT. By Jill Eisenstadt. (Knopf, $19.95.) A novel of extravagant wackiness, eccentricity and exuberance, featuring a Queens rock singer who loves a virgin from New Jersey.
THE KITCHEN GOD'S WIFE. By Amy Tan. (Putnam, $22.95.) A Chinese matriarch in San Francisco unfolds the harrowing story of her life in Ms. Tan's second novel, which poses, in a Tolstoyan tide of events, large questions of fate, circumstance and free will.
LADY'S MAID. By Margaret Forster. (Doubleday, $19.95.) This lucid and graceful novel is a fictional account of the love story of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning, as seen through the eyes of the servant who made it possible.
THE LAST VOYAGE OF SOMEBODY THE SAILOR. By John Barth. (Little, Brown, $22.95.) An ingenious multi-story fiction, in which a Barth-resembling hero voyages back and forth between the Chesapeake Bay and Burton's "Thousand and One Nights."
THE LATE NIGHT MUSE. By Bette Pesetsky. (HarperCollins, $20.) A disturbing cautionary fable for writers about a poet who finds she is dying and tries to put her literary life in order.
THE LAUGHING SUTRA. By Mark Salzman. (Random House, $18.95.) A robust, preposterous novel concerning a Chinese Buddhist lad's effort to recover a sacred text from America, with the help of a supernatural hero thousands of years old.
LIVE FREE OR DIE. By Ernest Hebert. (Viking, $19.95.) The fifth in a series of novels about Darby, N.H., draws to a conclusion Mr. Hebert's vigorous saga of several families, both upper-crust and underdog, whose sense of community has been wasted by history.
LOVE AND GARBAGE. By Ivan Klima. (Knopf, $20.) A writer turned street sweeper is enmeshed in a love triangle in this satisfying Czechoslovak novel of conflict and contradiction.
THE MACGUFFIN. By Stanley Elkin. (Linden/Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) Mr. Elkin's besotted, betroped high style, pleading for the power of talk, is at its work in this tale of a municipal bureaucrat looking for meaning not of his own making. Fat chance!
MAGIC HOUR. By Susan Isaacs. (HarperCollins, $21.95.) A murder in the Hamptons is the pretext of this sparkling mystery-romance, in which the investigator falls in love with his own chief suspect.
MAKING HISTORY. By Carolyn See. (Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) Terrible things happen in this novel to a man who tries to engineer a better country, without suffering, evil or original sin.
MALINA. By Ingeborg Bachmann. (Holmes & Meier, $24.95.) An intense, courageous novel that projects an unconventional triangle on a nasty background of corrupted language and power.
MAO II. By Don DeLillo. (Viking, $19.95.) A dark, dazzling, discursive novel in which writers, terrorists and hostages converge to adopt one another's functions and take one another's places in the historical imagination of the world.
MARIETTE IN ECSTASY. By Ron Hansen. (Edward Burlingame/HarperCollins, $20.) The unusual subject of this novel -- the progress in devotion of a postulant whose experiences threaten her convent -- is sustained by its clear, polished prose.
MENDELSSOHN IS ON THE ROOF. By Jiri Weill. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.95.) A brilliant novel that renders wartime Prague as seen by its triumphant but ultimately futile German masters.
THE MIRACLE GAME. By Josef Skvorecky. (Knopf, $22.95.) Raffish, acrimonious Danny Smiricky sleeps through the "miracle" of the title in this incident-crammed, gritty and lyrical novel of Czechoslovakia and its travails from 1949 to 1970.
A MODEL WORLD: And Other Stories. By Michael Chabon. (Morrow, $18.95.) Short fiction of kaleidoscopic beauty that explores estrangement and other modern phenomena.
MURTHER & WALKING SPIRITS. By Robertson Davies. (Viking, $21.95.) The narrator is murdered in the first line of this tremendously enticing novel, and thereafter his spirit flits around -- learning of his ancestral past in Holland, Wales and North America, watching seances from the dead's point of view and, slowly, getting revenge.
THE NIGHT TRAVELLERS. By Elizabeth Spencer. (Viking, $21.95.) Personal relationships, not historical events, hold together this strong novel that deals with civilians who felt obliged to resist the Vietnam War, even unto violence.
OBJECT LESSONS. By Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $19.) This engaging, entertaining first novel concerns a huge Irish Catholic family; its focus is the coming of age of Maggie Scanlan, age 13.
ON THE EVE OF UNCERTAIN TOMORROWS. By Neil Bissoondath. (Clarkson N. Potter, $18.95.) In these stories of exile by a Trinidadian now living in Canada, the West stands in for a dream denied, and for most of his emigres there is no going back.
PALACE OF DESIRE: The Cairo Trilogy II. By Naguib Mahfouz. (Doubleday, $22.95.) The second novel in the celebrated trilogy of the 1988 Nobel Prize winner opens in the early 1920's and relates the ups and downs of a Cairo family.
PANGS OF LOVE: Stories. By David Wong Louie. (Knopf, $19.) This inventive first collection of short stories tends to feature protagonists with an unstable sense of identity, forced either to reinvent themselves appropriately or to sink into isolation.
PATCHWORK. By Karen Osborn. (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $19.95.) A strong first novel of three women who grow old in a Southern mill town, looking for autonomy in a man's world.
PETER DOYLE. By John Vernon. (Random House, $22.) Mr. Vernon's energetic third novel takes us from the squalid New York of the Gilded Age to the weird open spaces of Colorado, along with a picaresque hero and a couple of Bonapartes, one a cyborg.
PINOCCHIO IN VENICE. By Robert Coover. (Linden/Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) A Professor Pinenut, retired from an American university, is the hero of Mr. Coover's Rabelaisian burlesque version of Collodi's puppet fable.
PLAYING THE GAME. By Ian Buruma. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $19.) A curious fancy -- half novel and half travelogue -- in which Benjamin Disraeli, Oscar Wilde and the great Indian cricketer K. S. Ranjitsinhji share a huge joke on the English.
POLITE SEX. By James Wilcox. (HarperCollins, $19.95.) A different species of aspiring-actress-in-New York novel, in which we see how life worked out for an earnest Smith graduate from the South.
THE REVOLUTION OF LITTLE GIRLS. By Blanche McCrary Boyd. (Knopf, $19.) This spare and precise novel of a South Carolina girl who becomes a well-adjusted gay woman doubles as a circuitous feminist guide through 30 years of American life.
THE RISE OF LIFE ON EARTH. By Joyce Carol Oates. (New Directions, $16.95.) A concentrated, single-minded, compact novel that explores the life and consciousness of an abused little girl who grows up to be a hospital worker bent on secret deadly acts.
THE RUNAWAY SOUL. By Harold Brodkey. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) In the writing for close to 30 years, this long, bold and puzzling novel concerns a famous writer's exploration of his own mind and efforts to recapture his deceased adoptive family.
SAINT MAYBE. By Anne Tyler. (Knopf, $22.) Anne Tyler's 12th novel is the arresting, intimate, oddball story of a man overwhelmed by guilt over the death of his brother who sets out to redeem himself by joining the Church of the Second Chance, giving up sex and helping to raise the brother's orphaned children.
SARAH CANARY. By Karen Joy Fowler. (Holt, $21.95.) An accomplished, if strange, first novel that takes place in a Pacific Northwest dreamscape of the 1870's, organized, sort of, around a Chinese laborer and a mysterious woman in black.
SCUM. By Isaac Bashevis Singer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $19.95.) Another trip back to the master Yiddish novelist's Warsaw just after the turn of the century, this time in the company of Max Barabander, a rich, self-pitying liar and former thief.
SEA OF LENTILS. By Antonio Benitez-Rojo. (University of Massachusetts, $22.95.) Four narratives, loosely founded on Spanish chronicles of the conquest of the Americas, collide and impinge in this convincing, unsettling novel by a Cuban.
THE SECOND BRIDEGROOM. By Rodney Hall. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $19.95.) This energetic and ebullient first volume in a historical trilogy that ends with the already published "Captivity Captive" is narrated by a convict who is shackled to a corpse for a time and then adopted by Australian aborigines.
SWALLOW HARD. By Sarah Gaddis. (Atheneum, $19.95.) An elegiac first novel that revolves about the unmastered feelings between a talented young woman and her surly genius of a father.
SWEET EYES. By Jonis Agee. (Crown, $18.95.) A year of sin, passion, cracked Formica and Willie Nelson tunes in fictional Divinity, Iowa, where crazed people yearn to tell their life stories.
THE SWEET HEREAFTER. By Russell Banks. (HarperCollins, $20.) The author of "Continental Drift" coolly but generously engages an appalling theme: a town's need to fix the blame for a dreadful school bus accident so the world will make sense again.
TALKING IT OVER. By Julian Barnes. (Knopf, $21.) Mr. Barnes's sixth novel -- credible, moving, funny and frightening -- concerns an impossible love triangle and raises, like his previous books, some risky questions about the nature of fiction itself.
THE TATTERED CLOAK: And Other Novels. By Nina Berberova. (Knopf, $21.) Actually six novellas or longish stories by a Russian emigre, most of them brilliantly impressionistic evocations of the Russian enclave in Paris before and during World War II.
THEREAFTER JOHNNIE. By Carolivia Herron. (Random House, $18.95.) This lyrical first novel, in which the daughter born of an incestuous relationship emerges as a kind of messiah, adds a mythic dimension to the African-American experience.
THE THIRTEEN-GUN SALUTE. By Patrick O'Brian. (Norton, $19.95.) The latest in an admirable series of romances, set in Lord Nelson's navy, whose themes include friendship and music, poetry, food, scholarship and the delights of nature. Honest!
A THOUSAND ACRES. By Jane Smiley. (Knopf, $23.) The perils of family and property, the difficulty of being a daughter, inform this novel in which an Iowan divides his farm among his children.
TIME'S ARROW: Or, The Nature of the Offense. By Martin Amis. (Harmony, $18.) In this poignant and savagely indignant novel, Mr. Amis explores what life would feel like if time ran backward, and so, as in psychoanalysis or detective fiction, the climax is what happened long ago.
TO KNOW A WOMAN. By Amos Oz. (Helen and Kurt Wolff/Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $19.95.) A claustrophobic, mercilessly domestic novel, in which an Israeli widower, a retired spy, contrives strategies for getting through the day.
TOO LOUD A SOLITUDE. By Bohumil Hrabal. (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $16.95.) Published in Czechoslovakia 14 years ago, this irresistibly eccentric romp concerns the life of a gigantically passionate man whose job is the bundling of books to be pulped.
TRAFFIC AND LAUGHTER. By Ted Mooney. (Knopf, $19.95.) Mr. Mooney's funny novel, fearlessly experimental, works some changes on our world: for example, the atomic bomb, if used, will ignite the atmosphere, incinerating everything.
THE TRANSLATOR. By Ward Just. (Richard Todd/Houghton Mifflin, $21.95.) A cunningly ironic novel about an expatriate German translator in Paris who tries to escape history, nationality, politics and the memories of World War II.
THE TRENCH: Volume Two of the "Cities of Salt" Trilogy. By Abdelrahman Munif. (Pantheon, $25.) Mr. Munif's powerful novel of the making of a rich, corrupt oil state goes far to deepen, correct and humanize our views of Arabs and Arab culture.
TROPICAL NIGHT FALLING. By Manuel Puig. (Simon & Schuster, $19.) This compressed, elliptical, posthumously published novel, told entirely through dialogue, letters and police reports, is set in Rio de Janeiro and concerns two middle-class Argentine sisters, their neighbor, a doorman and a 13-year-old nanny.
TWO GIRLS, FAT AND THIN. By Mary Gaitskill. (Poseidon, $18.95.) Ms. Gaitskill's grim first novel is about an obese young woman paralyzed by childhood wounds and an elegant journalist who expresses herself in sadistic sexual relationships.
TYPICAL. By Padgett Powell. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $19.) Short stories, some very short, well using all the tricks of distillation, timing, bull's-eye observation and Southern colloquial speech.
TYPICAL AMERICAN. By Gish Jen. (Seymour Lawrence/Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) Gish Jen's first novel explores the transformation of Chinese immigrants into Americans, chiefly through the agency of greed, in prose of epigrammatic swiftness.
THE VOICE OF AMERICA. By Rick DeMarinis. (Norton, $18.95.) Fidelity -- between mother and son, husband and wife, soldier and nation -- is the issue in these fierce, often hilarious short stories.
THE WEIGHT OF WINTER. By Cathie Pelletier. (Viking, $22.95.) In this sharp, strong novel, vicious inbred families in a small Maine town cope with hopeless situations and with weather so cold that even the trees are "stunned above their roots."
WHAT WAS MINE: Stories. By Ann Beattie. (Random House, $20.) Portraits of forlorn men and unpredictable women from an author whose famous detachment has given way to greater tenderness.
THE WHITE CASTLE. By Orhan Pamuk. (Braziller, $17.50.) A canny novel of slavery and intrigue in 17th-century Istanbul, from a young Turkish writer with the narrative zip of Scheherazade.
WHITE PEOPLE. By Allan Gurganus. (Knopf, $21.95.) Eleven stories, sharp of eye and ear, all accessible, all evidently the product of a storyteller who knows and loves his work.
WHO DO YOU LOVE. By Valerie Sayers. (Doubleday, $18.95.) Ms. Sayers brings humor, irony, history both national and family, and a fascinating setting all to bear on 37-year-old Dolores Rooney in this affecting novel of 24 hours in Due East, S.C.
WILDERNESS TIPS. By Margaret Atwood. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $20.) The well-constructed, tough-minded short stories in Ms. Atwood's third collection feature such oddities as a pickled tumor, a bog man and Manuel Noriega.
WITH FIRE AND SWORD. By Henryk Sienkiewicz. (Copernicus Society of America/Hippocrene, $24.95.) Thundering hoofbeats pound the Ukrainian plains in this extravagant historical novel of Polish gentry and rebellious Cossacks in the 17th century, first published in Polish in 1884 by the author of "Quo Vadis."
WLT: A Radio Romance. By Garrison Keillor. (Viking, $21.95.) This loosely constructed, exuberant but surprisingly dark novel about the birth, prosperity and decline of a wild, down-home Minneapolis radio station is held together by the nostalgia that made Mr. Keillor famous.
WOMAN HOLLERING CREEK: And Other Stories. By Sandra Cisneros. (Random House, $18.) Unforgettable characters march through a satisfying collection of tales about Mexican-Americans who know the score and cling to the anchor of their culture.
A WOMAN'S STORY. By Annie Ernaux. (Four Walls Eight Windows, $15.95.) Almost giving up the pretense of fiction, the French writer Annie Ernaux, who has been compared to Simone de Beauvoir, writes powerfully of a once-ungrateful daughter remembering her mother's slow death from Alzheimer's disease in a suburb of Paris.
THE WOMEN OF WHITECHAPEL AND JACK THE RIPPER. By Paul West. (Random House, $22.) In a gloriously farfetched novel, true crime's most enduring unsolved mystery begins with an idyllic romance between a shopgirl and a prince.
ZELDA FITZGERALD: The Collected Writings. Edited by Matthew J. Bruccoli. (Scribners, $24.95.) All the literary work of this tragic figure, the wife and muse of F. Scott Fitzgerald, showing an offbeat intelligence and a free-flowing wit.
 
History
 ABRAHAM LINCOLN AND THE SECOND AMERICAN REVOLUTION. By James M. McPherson. (Oxford University, $17.95.) The author of "Battle Cry of Freedom" takes issue with the propositions that the Civil War achieved nothing much and that Lincoln didn't really know what he was up to.
AMERICAN NERVOUSNESS, 1903: An Anecdotal History. By Tom Lutz. (Cornell University, $29.95.) A witty, concrete, gossipy study of neurasthenia, the disease that racked nearly every self-respecting member of the Edwardian brainworking classes.
BARONS OF THE SKY. From Early Flight to Strategic Warfare: The Story of the American Aerospace Industry. By Wayne Biddle. (Simon & Schuster, $22.95.) Not so much the glories of men in their flying machines as a timely history of how the United States Government's military contracts have sustained the aerospace industry for almost a century.
THE BIRTH OF THE MODERN: World Society 1815-1830. By Paul Johnson. (HarperCollins, $35.) A tasty social history, spiced with gossip and anecdote, of the 15 years Mr. Johnson argues were the changingest ever, what with steam power, cheap books, mass advertising, rebellions, uprisings and middle-class arrivisme.
THE CRISIS YEARS: Kennedy and Khrushchev, 1960-1963. By Michael R. Beschloss. (Edward Burlingame/HarperCollins, $29.95.) A fascinating narrative of the three years during which two theatrically inclined and relatively inexperienced leaders led the superpowers as close to Armageddon as they have ever been.
THE DESTRUCTIVE WAR: William Tecumseh Sherman, Stonewall Jackson, and the Americans. By Charles Royster. (Knopf, $30.) A fresh narration of the Civil War, arguing that the conflict's devastating violence was inherent from the beginning.
DREADNOUGHT: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War. By Robert K. Massie. (Random House, $35.) A massive account of the breakdown of the European status quo in the late 19th century and the rivalry that led to the catastrophe of 1914.
THE DUEL. 10 May-31 July 1940: The Eighty-Day Struggle Between Churchill and Hitler. By John Lukacs. (Ticknor & Fields, $19.95.) A convincing argument that the particular personalities and decisions of these antagonists determined the future of the world.
ELECTRIFYING AMERICA: Social Meanings of a New Technology, 1880-1940. By David E. Nye. (MIT, $29.95.) A deep historical probing into the everyday significance of utility-provided electricity and the changes it has wrought.
FALLEN LEAVES: The Civil War Letters of Major Henry Livermore Abbott. Edited by Robert Garth Scott. (Kent State, $27.) These candid letters of a conservative, well-to-do Harvard graduate who brought his manservant with him to the battlefield when he joined the 20th Massachusetts Regiment are filled with grim humor and the horrors of war.
FREE AT LAST? The Civil Rights Movement and the People Who Made It. By Fred Powledge. (Little, Brown, $29.95.) An ample history, frankly partisan but generously comprehensive, of the nonviolent activists of the 1960's and their opponents.
FREEDOM. Volume One: Freedom in the Making of Western Culture. By Orlando Patterson. (Basic Books, $29.95.) The first of a projected two volumes on the origins of the idea of freedom focuses primarily on Greek and Roman societies, glances at the Middle Ages and concludes that in Western societies it was slavery that produced an awareness of the value of freedom.
FROM LENIN TO LENNON: A Memoir of Russia in the Sixties. By David Gurevich. (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $21.95.) A dryly witty account of totalitarian life along the Volga offers an important lesson: the most typical horrors are not savage repressions but the routine humiliations of the average citizen.
A HISTORY OF THE ARAB PEOPLES. By Albert Hourani. (Belknap/Harvard, $24.95.) This splendid, monumental, old-fashioned narrative history of the Arab peoples, starting with the Arab world before Islam and ending with the Arab world in the 1980's, is written with grace, wisdom, empathy and a sense of the irony of human history.
HITLER'S JUSTICE: The Courts of the Third Reich. By Ingo Muller. (Harvard University, $29.95.) A shocking history, by a former German law professor, of the corruption of justice by the legal establishment during the Nazi period -- and even later.
IN MORTAL COMBAT: Korea, 1950-1953. By John Toland. (Morrow, $25.) A distinguished military historian's examination of a war so humiliating for the United States that attention to avoiding the same mistakes may have contributed to defeat in Vietnam.
THE INVENTION OF ARGENTINA. By Nicolas Shumway. (University of California, $34.95.) An absorbing discussion of Argentina's founding fathers, arguing that their failure to agree on a model of the national destiny led to national collapse.
ISRAEL'S SECRET WARS: A History of Israel's Intelligence Services. By Ian Black and Benny Morris. (Grove Weidenfeld, $24.95.) A thoroughly documented demystification of Israel's three spy services, including blunders as well as triumphs.
LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO WAR: December 7, 1941. By Stanley Weintraub. (Truman Talley Books/Dutton, $26.95.) In this roving-camera view of the day Japan attacked an unprepared America, Stanley Weintraub amasses some highly readable detail on what was happening all over the world.
ON THE ALTAR OF FREEDOM: A Black Soldier's Civil War Letters From the Front. By Corporal James Henry Gooding. Edited by Virginia Matzke Adams. (University of Massachusetts, $21.95.) This, the only sustained account of life in a black Civil War regiment, is a slender sheaf of ornately written letters, penned by a soldier in the 54th Massachusetts and originally published in The New Bedford Mercury.
ONE OF US: Richard Nixon and the American Dream. By Tom Wicker. (Random House, $24.95.) A scrupulous and unconventional account by a Times columnist that agrees with the emerging consensus about Mr. Nixon's great abilities, but locates his accomplishments more in domestic than foreign affairs.
PERFECT CITIES: Chicago's Utopias of 1893. By James Gilbert. (University of Chicago, $27.50.) This subtle and nuanced re-examination of Chicago's World's Fair of 1893, with its utopian visions for the future, lends perspective to today's debates about whether there should be a homogeneous American culture.
POVERTY AND COMPASSION: The Moral Imagination of the Late Victorians. By Gertrude Himmelfarb. (Knopf, $30.) A pioneering study of the Victorians' response to poverty, showing that the spirit of the age was serious, committed and benevolent.
THE RITUALS OF DINNER: The Origins, Evolution, Eccentricities, and Meaning of Table Manners. By Margaret Visser. (Grove Weidenfeld, $22.95.) A learned romp through the rituals created to prevent cannibalism and other social ills.
THIS PEOPLE'S NAVY: The Making of American Sea Power. By Kenneth J. Hagan. (Free Press, $27.95.) A critical institutional history, in vivid, precise prose, of the United States Navy to 1990.
 
>Poetry
 THE CITY IN WHICH I LOVE YOU. By Li-Young Lee. (BOA Editions, Cloth, $18; Paper, $9.) Explosive and earthy poems by an audacious and passionate poet-traveler who takes great chances in verse that is colloquial and metaphysical at the same time.
CRIME AGAINST NATURE. By Minnie Bruce Pratt. (Firebrand Books, Cloth, $18.95; Paper, $8.95.) These poems have an emphatic perspective -- that of a feminist, lesbian mother -- derived from personal experience. They have a familiar, elegant tonal beauty, but each one is a verbal emergency, original and startling.
FLOW CHART. By John Ashbery. (Knopf, $20.) This 216-page poem, John Ashbery's most various and beautiful book, seems to meditate on the whole world and all literature. It is filled with stories, and only at the end do we realize we have been looking at one underlying story -- Mr. Ashbery's life.
JAGUAR OF SWEET LAUGHTER: New & Selected Poems. By Diane Ackerman. (Random House, $18.) Diane Ackerman is the great dramatist and explorer of the sensual world; her poems probe, open, take off lids, peel back covers, taste, sniff. There is no limit to her curiosity, and she is constantly discovering surprises.
LIVING WILLS: New & Selected Poems. By Cynthia Macdonald. (Knopf, $21.95.) Cynthia Macdonald's voice is prodigiously flexible; she can write about anything in gorgeous, baroque verse. Her later work shows movement toward longer poems about life and family.
MADOC: A Mystery. By Paul Muldoon. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $19.95.) This ingenious tale of what might have happened if Coleridge had really established his utopia in America, by one of Ireland's best poets, is filled with characteristic Muldoonish pranks that will amuse and puzzle readers for a long time.
OLD AND NEW POEMS. By Donald Hall. (Ticknor & Fields, Cloth, $24.95; Paper, $12.95.) Donald Hall is our time's great elegist. In this collection of verse from the last 15 years he celebrates the passing of people and things with grieving joy in burly lines that are classical in dignity and perfectly readable.
SELECTED POEMS. By Robert Creeley. (University of California, $25.) If Robert Creeley can get his point across with fewer syllables, so much the better. He is a some-assembly-required poet; his readers have to bring a certain amount of personal experience to his work to get the most from it.
WAKING. By Tom Sleigh. (University of Chicago, Cloth, $20; Paper, $8.95.) Tom Sleigh's precision marks him as the diamond cutter of poetry; his verse has a tense musicality, and his ability to convey exact emotions, even the state of consciousness itself, is unerring.
THE WORLD OF THE TEN THOUSAND THINGS: Poems 1980-1990. By Charles Wright. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) These poems can be read as a single poetic sequence like John Berryman's "Dream Songs." They chart a spiritual quest, an investigation of relations between the visible world and the invisible.
 
Popular Culture and the Arts
 THE ADVENTURES OF AMOS 'N' ANDY: A Social History of an American Phenomenon. By Melvin Patrick Ely. (Free Press, $22.95.) A Yale historian examines one of America's greatest cultural enigmas -- the amazing popularity, among blacks as well as whites, of "Amos 'n' Andy" on radio for more than 30 years.
CESAR PELLI: Buildings and Projects 1965-1990. Introduction by Paul Goldberger. Essays by Mario Gandelsonas and John Pastier. (Rizzoli, Cloth, $50; Paper, $35.) Drawings and photographs of buildings and models, accompanied by short essays about Cesar Pelli, an architect known especially for his large-scale compositions in reflective glass.
CHILDREN OF WAR, CHILDREN OF PEACE: Photographs by Robert Capa. Edited by Cornell Capa and Richard Whelan. (Bulfinch Press/Little, Brown, $50.) Photographed in China, Spain and other harsh places in the 1930's and 40's, Capa's children have the look of crushed adults baffled by the world around them.
DEAD ELVIS: A Chronicle of a Cultural Obsession. By Greil Marcus. (Doubleday, $25.) A longtime contributor to The Village Voice and Rolling Stone gives us the posthumous phase of Elvis Presley's transformation in American culture, in the form of record reviews, book reviews, essays, pastiches and parodies written since 1975.
THE DEVIL'S CANDY: "The Bonfire of the Vanities" Goes to Hollywood. By Julie Salamon. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.95.) An insightful look at how one producer's irresistible urge to make a movie out of Tom Wolfe's novel led to an obscenely expensive flop.
THE EMERGENCE OF CINEMA: The American Screen to 1907. By Charles Musser. (Scribners, $60.) THE TRANSFORMATION OF CINEMA, 1907-1915. By Eileen Bowser. (Scribners, $60.) AN EVENING'S ENTERTAINMENT: The Age of the Silent Feature Picture, 1915-1928. By Richard Koszarski. (Scribners, $60.) The first three volumes of "History of the American Cinema," a projected 10-volume series edited by Charles Harpole, are accurate, all-inclusive and appealing; they live up to extravagant promises.
MATISSE, PICASSO, MIRO AS I KNEW THEM. By Rosamond Bernier. (Knopf, $50.) This expertly edited and beautifully illustrated collection of the lectures on great artists given at the Metropolitan Museum by Rosamond Bernier, a founder of the art magazine L'Oeil, is a mix of esthetic exposition, reminiscence and quotation from artists, and it evokes a simpler and smaller art world.
MOVIE LOVE: Complete Reviews 1988-1991. By Pauline Kael. (William Abrahams/ Dutton, $24.95.) The latest collection of reviews from The New Yorker's combative and fervent film critic includes her effusions over "My Left Foot" and her vitriol about "Dances With Wolves."
ON BROADWAY: A Journey Uptown Over Time. By David W. Dunlap. (Rizzoli, $65.) An arresting, authoritative look at the past and present of Manhattan's 17-mile main street, by a reporter for The New York Times who takes fine photographs as well.
PASSAGE: A Work Record. By Irving Penn. (Knopf, $100.) The most complete and elaborately reproduced collection of the great photographer's work -- produced on assignment for Conde Nast and on his own time -- spans his 50-year career and illustrates an overriding impulse to show that beauty resides as much in sagging flesh and obdurate metal as it does in the supple figures and flowing gowns of fashion models.
THE THRILL OF FEAR: 250 Years of Scary Entertainment. By Walter Kendrick. (Grove Weidenfeld, $21.95.) A lively, informative treatment of the pleasures of goose bumps.
 
Religion, Philosophy and Mythology
 THE BLACK CHURCH IN THE AFRICAN AMERICAN EXPERIENCE. By C. Eric Lincoln and Lawrence H. Mamiya. (Duke University, Cloth, $47.50; Paper, $18.95.) A study both broad and deep of the "invisible institution" that has been a vehicle of social and spiritual transformation for two centuries.
CHAPTER AND VERSE: A Skeptic Revisits Christianity. By Mike Bryan. (Random House, $22.) An agnostic exposes himself to the evangelical zeal of the Southern Baptists at Criswell College in Dallas and emerges with this deft, revealing and eminently fair exploration of the ethical and theological debates taking place in seminaries across America.
DEBORAH, GOLDA AND ME: Being Female and Jewish in America. By Letty Cottin Pogrebin. (Crown, $22.) A defiant book by one of the founding editors of Ms. magazine chronicling her personal journey back to Judaism and her attempt to create a life that reconciles her religion and feminism.
ENCOUNTERING MARY: From La Salette to Medjugorje. By Sandra L. Zimdars-Swartz. (Princeton University, $24.95.) A fascinating study of seven apparitions of the Virgin Mary reported since 1846 and of how such events, usually cryptic at first, are interpreted and accepted -- or not -- by ecclesiastical authority.
EUNUCHS FOR THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN: Women, Sexuality and the Catholic Church. By Uta Ranke-Heinemann. (Doubleday, $21.95.) A historical critique of the Roman Catholic Church's attitude toward women and sexuality by a German Catholic and professor of the history of religion; few theologians have targeted church sexual teaching from so many angles or as trenchantly.
FREUD'S MOSES: Judaism Terminable and Interminable. By Yosef Hayim Yerushalmi. (Yale University, $25.) An elegant, suggestive, subtle examination of Freud's preoccupation with a historical figure who resembled himself in interesting ways.
IRON JOHN: A Book About Men. By Robert Bly. (Addison-Wesley, $18.95.) A poet's timely examination of the male psyche and the need men seem to have for a spiritual infusion from myths and mentors to help them manage the change from child to adult.
THE MYTHOLOGY OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA. By John Bierhorst. (Morrow, $14.95.) In his third volume of native American mythology, Mr. Bierhorst tracks shared beliefs and common experiences from a wide range of sources.
SAGES AND DREAMERS: Biblical, Talmudic and Hasidic Portraits and Legends. By Elie Wiesel. (Summit, $25.) A gifted storyteller reinvigorates and demystifies Hasidic and Talmudic masters and characters from the Bible by showing their human side.
THE SEARCH FOR GOD AT HARVARD. By Ari L. Goldman. (Times Books/Random House, $20.) A Times reporter's engaging account of a year at the Harvard Divinity School.
THE SPIRITUAL LIFE OF CHILDREN. By Robert Coles. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $22.95.) Showing again how much can be learned by paying attention, Dr. Coles explores the role of religious thought in creating wholeness in children's lives.
 
Science Fiction
 BRAIN CHILD. By George Turner. (Morrow, $20.) An updated "Frankenstein" by an Australian, this novel brilliantly unpacks the secrets of the Nursery Project, in which scientific tinkering with the human genome has created three groups of unlovable supermen and superwomen.
CARVE THE SKY. By Alexander Jablokov. (Morrow, $21.95.) Set in a vibrant 24th century not unlike 14th-century Burgundy, this story brings to life a society where the attainment of power and the appreciation of beauty are not seen as mutually exclusive aims.
THE CULT OF LOVING KINDNESS. By Paul Park. (Morrow, $20.) The third novel in "The Starbridge Chronicles" takes the long view of human history; the iconoclastic successors to the haughty Starbridge clan become the oppressors.
THE DARK BEYOND THE STARS. By Frank M. Robinson. (Tom Doherty/Tor, $19.95.) This epic clash of wills and generations -- between the old members of the starship Aston, who have been searching in vain for new forms of life, and their descendants, who want to return to Earth -- is a fresh look at the Christopher Columbus syndrome.
DAYS OF ATONEMENT. By Walter Jon Williams. (Tom Doherty/Tor, $19.95.) This genre-straddling blend of science fiction and police procedural features Loren Hawn, a Southwestern Columbo who is a lot smarter than he looks, able both to poke into the mysteries of high-energy physics at the tight-lipped research lab outside of town and to take the law into his own hands.
DEATH QUALIFIED. By Kate Wilhelm. (St. Martin's, $22.95.) This novel about the mathematics of chaos and the chaos of the human heart concerns a burned-out attorney defending a woman accused of murdering her estranged husband, who happened to be linked to a team of scientists redefining the fabric of reality.
MESS-MEND: Yankees in Petrograd. By Marietta Shaginian. (Ardis, $35.) A strange historical artifact, this novel, written by a Muscovite under the pseudonym Jim Dollar and published in biweekly installments in the Soviet Union in 1923, has a proletarian hero named Thingsmaster who leads the Mess-Mend union against the terrible international capitalists.
THE RAGGED WORLD. By Judith Moffett. (St. Martin's, $18.95.) This adult novel deals with little furry aliens and time travel, but its main focus is on ordinary and not-so-ordinary people caught up in events that, for all their cosmic significance, are played out on what can only be called a domestic scale.
THE SILICON MAN. By Charles Platt. (Spectra/Bantam, Paper, $4.50.) The author imagines what it would be like to be reconstituted as an "infomorph," a computer program so carefully modeled on the human brain that it can "experience" any sensory input it chooses. Mr. Platt's musings lead to some unsettling conclusions.
STRANGER SUNS. By George Zebrowski. (Spectra/Bantam, Paper, $4.50.) This playful but deadly earnest romp through space, time and alternative realities shows that while you can't go home again, you might be able to find something that's just as good or better.
XENOCIDE. By Orson Scott Card. (Tom Doherty/Tor, $21.95.) In this artful narrative is a moral question that will keep readers pleasurably off balance: Can such an awful act as xenocide, killing off an intelligent alien species, be justified if it is done in the name of self-defense?
 
Science, Medicine and Psychology
 THE ARROW OF TIME: A Voyage Through Science to Solve Time's Greatest Mystery. By Peter Coveney and Roger Highfield. (Fawcett Columbine, $22.50.) A physicist and a science editor take on the directionality of time in the light of current research.
BULLY FOR BRONTOSAURUS: Reflections in Natural History. By Stephen Jay Gould. (Norton, $22.95.) A provocative, spirited collection -- his best so far -- by the Stan Musial of essay writing.
THE CHANGING ATMOSPHERE: A Global Challenge. By John Firor. (Yale University, $19.95.) Mr. Firor, an atmospheric scientist, argues that man-made environmental change is inevitable and that further inaction will complicate our survival.
CHILDHOOD. By Melvin Konner. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) This companion volume to a PBS television series brings together current knowledge on how children around the world -- from a kibbutz in Israel to the Kalahari Desert -- change both physically and emotionally, from conception to adolescence.
THE CULTURE OF PAIN. By David B. Morris. (University of California, $29.95.) A sensitive literary scholar's fascinating tour of what hurts, both mentally and physically, and of what is, and has been, thought about pain in Western culture.
CYBERPUNK: Outlaws and Hackers on the Computer Frontier. By Katie Hafner and John Markoff. (Simon & Schuster, $22.95.) The passion and revenge of computer hackers, told in three separate stories -- one about "phone phreaks" in Los Angeles, one about a West Berliner who passed military secrets to the K.G.B. and one about a Cornell University student who sent a virus through the nation's computer network.
THE DINOSAUR MAN: Tales of Madness and Enchantment From the Back Ward. By Susan Baur. (Edward Burlingame/ HarperCollins, $19.95.) An empathic book that portrays the uncommon worlds of schizophrenic patients in mental hospitals and shows how their delusions help them survive.
EXPLORING SPACE: Voyages in the Solar System and Beyond. By William E. Burrows. (Random House, $24.95.) An exuberant paean to American planetary exploration, embedded in a detailed history of the space effort, by a veteran reporter.
FEMALE PERVERSIONS: The Temptations of Emma Bovary. By Louise J. Kaplan. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $24.95.) A fascinating, ambitious study by a psychoanalyst who argues that such conduct as shoplifting and compulsive sexy dressing are the female equivalents of more familiar male paraphilias.
IN THE PALACES OF MEMORY: How We Build the Worlds Inside Our Heads. By George Johnson. (Knopf, $22.95.) A lucid examination by a science journalist and Times editor of work in progress toward the understanding of human intelligence.
THE JOY OF INSIGHT: Passions of a Physicist. By Victor Weisskopf. (Basic Books, $24.95.) The memoirs of a gifted thinker remarkable for the breadth of his culture and of his sympathies.
LONELY HEARTS OF THE COSMOS: The Scientific Quest for the Secret of the Universe. By Dennis Overbye. (HarperCollins, $25.) A vivid journalistic history of the amazing discoveries -- as well as the amazing speculations -- of the last 20 years of cosmology.
THE MAN WHO KNEW INFINITY: A Life of the Genius Ramanujan. By Robert Kanigel. (Scribners, $27.95.) The captivating rags-to-mathematical-riches tale of a poor, uneducated Brahmin Hindu from south India whose genius expressed itself in the rarefied field of number theory.
MODELS OF MY LIFE. By Herbert A. Simon. (Basic Books, $26.95.) The Nobel laureate's autobiography shows his scientific activity -- most notably, his work in artificial intelligence -- as a deeply personal enterprise, a product not of irresistible technology but of the esthetic and self-examination of the researcher himself.
TELL ME A STORY: A New Look at Real and Artificial Memory. By Roger C. Schank. (Scribners, $19.95.) An impressive book, and fun to read, about human intelligence and its dependence on the stories we know and retell.
VIRUS HUNTING. AIDS, Cancer, and the Human Retrovirus: A Story of Scientific Discovery. By Robert Gallo. (New Republic/Basic Books, $22.95.) A scientist's formidable defense of his own version of the events leading up to the discovery of the AIDS virus.
WALKING WITH THE GREAT APES: Jane Goodall, Dian Fossey, Birute Galdikas. By Sy Montgomery. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) This shrewd, thought-provoking book about three amazing women sent into the field by Louis Leakey shows that it was not only their sharp eyes but their deep commitment and sympathy that allowed them to understand the great apes.
WITNESSES FROM THE GRAVE: The Stories Bones Tell. By Christopher Joyce and Eric Stover. (Little, Brown, $19.95.) A satisfyingly grisly guide, by two science writers, to the techniques and achievements of forensic anthropology.
 
Spies & Thrillers
 CATALYST. By Philip Cornford. (Bantam, $19.50.) An original, ambitious and entirely successful novel that is partly about espionage but mostly about ordinary Russians of the Gorbachev generation.
CRIMES OF THE CITY. By Robert Rosenberg. (Simon & Schuster, $18.95.) A superior, well-written thriller that introduces Avram Cohen, a police detective in Jerusalem, and concerns the slaying of two nuns in a Russian Orthodox convent.
THE DECEIVER. By Frederick Forsyth. (Bantam, $22.50.) Dedicated to cold warriors everywhere, these four linked and richly nuanced novellas feature an endearing 51-year-old British spy named Sam McCready.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE. By Larry Beinhart. (Harmony, $19.) A cynical, at times hilarious book, by an elegant writer, that spoofs the spooks of the C.I.A.
THE SECRET PILGRIM. By John le Carre. (Knopf, $21.95.) An intriguing amalgam of meditation, fictive autobiography and numerous spy stories whose protagonist, a man named Ned, will be familiar to Mr. le Carre's fans.
SUGARLAND. By Phillip Finch. (St. Martin's, $18.95.) A San Francisco insurance investigator looks into the possible death of a man in the Philippines; the writing is altogether expert.
THE SUM OF ALL FEARS. By Tom Clancy. (Putnam, $24.95.) A vivid page-turner in which the intrepid Jack Ryan battles post-cold war geopolitical terrors -- Palestinian terrorists, European radicals and former East German secret police and military scientists, who join forces and get hold of an Israeli nuclear weapon.
WET WORK. By Christopher Buckley. (Knopf, $19.95.) Bodies pile up in this satirical thriller as its wealthy protagonist goes after the system that provided a fatal drug overdose to his granddaughter.
WHITE RUSH/GREEN FIRE. By Mark McGarrity. (Morrow, $20.) Mr. McGarrity, who as Bartholomew Gill is the author of a series of Irish police procedurals, has written a superb suspense novel about the drug trade in the Bahamas.
 
Sports
 BASEBALL IN '41: A Celebration of the Best Baseball Season Ever -- in the Year America Went to War. By Robert W. Creamer. (Viking, $19.95.) A memorable book that brings back the year Joe DiMaggio hit safely in 56 straight games, Ted Williams hit .406 and the Brooklyn Dodgers won their first pennant in 21 years.
COLLISION AT HOME PLATE: The Lives of Pete Rose and Bart Giamatti. By James Reston Jr. (Edward Burlingame/HarperCollins, $19.95.) A dual biography that does justice to these two men who seemed at times to be the id and the ego of modern baseball.
CORNER MEN: Great Boxing Trainers. By Ronald K. Fried. (Four Walls Eight Windows, $21.95.) And IN THE CORNER: Great Boxing Trainers Talk About Their Art. By Dave Anderson. (Morrow, $20.) Like good corner men, the authors of these two books are unobtrusive. In chronicling the unique and dying art of training boxers, they have managed to complement each other's work wonderfully -- with Mr. Anderson rendering a straight oral history of current and recent trainers and Mr. Fried giving longer biographies and chapters on old-time trainers.
HARD COURTS. By John Feinstein. (Villard, $22.50.) A year's worth of juicy and unflattering anecdotes about the greats and ingrates of professional tennis, gleaned from interviews with more than 100 players and their agents and coaches.
I HAD A HAMMER: The Hank Aaron Story. By Henry Aaron with Lonnie Wheeler. (HarperCollins, $21.95.) A beautifully written rendition of the incredible journey of Henry Aaron as well as of the struggle of African-Americans to play major league baseball.
MUHAMMAD ALI: His Life and Times. By Thomas Hauser. (Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) The definitive biography, compiled from the recollections of more than 150 people who have known the great boxer.
MY FAVORITE SUMMER 1956. By Mickey Mantle and Phil Pepe. (Doubleday, $18.95.) The story of Mickey Mantle's brilliant season, told with much fine shrewdness and humor here.
TED WILLIAMS: A Baseball Life. By Michael Seidel. (Contemporary Books, $19.95.) And TED WILLIAMS: A Portrait in Words and Pictures. Text by Glenn Stout. Edited by Dick Johnson. (Walker, $24.95.) Two books about the Boston Red Sox outfielder whose real power was at the plate -- one, by the author of "Streak: Joe DiMaggio and the Summer of '41," provides a rounded biography of Williams; the other, written by a freelance sportswriter in collaboration with the curator of the Sports Museum in Boston, presents a lively and reverential mixture of narrative, photographs and short essays by assorted Williams fans.
A WHOLE DIFFERENT BALL GAME: The Sport and Business of Baseball. By Marvin Miller. (Birch Lane/Carol, $21.95.) The man who rewrote the rules of labor-management relations in baseball has written a sometimes insightful, sometimes bitter memoir about the pain and triumphs of the players' union.

 
 
Travel, Nature and Adventure
 AFRICAN SILENCES. By Peter Matthiessen. (Random House, $21.) Three extended essays on Africa by a distinguished nature writer whose environmental warnings and descriptions of destructive social forces are as urgent and relevant as ever.
BAGHDAD WITHOUT A MAP: And Other Misadventures in Arabia. By Tony Horwitz. (Dutton, $19.95.) A journalist's amusing, often insightful record of being at loose ends for two years among people whom we do not understand very well, and vice versa.
BURNING BUSH: A Fire History of Australia. By Stephen J. Pyne. (Holt, $27.95.) This exhaustive history of the interaction of nature, fire and mankind on a strange and distant (from us) continent is a major contribution to the literature of environmental studies.
CHASING THE MONSOON. By Alexander Frater. (Knopf, $21.) A delightful, unusual travel book, full of amusing perceptions about India and its inescapable links with the past, recent and remote.
GAME WARS: The Undercover Pursuit of Wildlife Poachers. By Marc Reisner. (Viking, $19.95.) Rambunctious reporting about the thriving business of wildlife poaching as seen through the eyes of Dave Hall, a voluble and egotistical undercover agent working for the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
HUNTING MISTER HEARTBREAK: A Discovery of America. By Jonathan Raban. (Edward Burlingame/HarperCollins, $25.) An Englishman with a gift for observation follows an 18th-century spectral guide in a search for this country's great good place.
THE LADY AND THE MONK: Four Seasons in Kyoto. By Pico Iyer. (Knopf, $22.) An affectionate, beautifully written book, arising from curiosity about a land at once so high-tech and so traditional; the author encountered many surprises, love not the least of them.
THE LAST ITALIAN: Portrait of a People. By William Murray. (Prentice Hall, $21.95.) Mr. Murray's second volume of casual essays about Italy and its civilization is partly just fine journalism, partly a lover's keen, observant diary of his affair.
TURKISH REFLECTIONS: A Biography of a Place. By Mary Lee Settle. (Prentice Hall, $19.95.) A diverting mixture of travelogue, history, polemic and contemporary portrait that is a model of how to take pleasure in places and people along paths not lately beaten.
WILD PEOPLE: Travels With Borneo's Head-Hunters. By Andro Linklater. (Morgan Entrekin/Atlantic Monthly, $19.95.) A wacky account, by a British journalist, of a sojourn in Sarawak.

GRAPHIC: Drawing by Maurice Sendak

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review; List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (91%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (95%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (91%); WRITERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL DE COURCY FRASER HOLROYD (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



5 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 6; Page 50; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5335 words

HEADLINE: Grady's Gift

BYLINE: By Howell Raines; Howell Raines is the Washington editor of The New York Times.

 BODY:
GRADY SHOWED UP ONE DAY at our house at 1409 Fifth Avenue West in Birmingham, and by and by she changed the way I saw the world. I was 7 when she came to iron and clean and cook for $18 a week, and she stayed for seven years. During that time everyone in our family came to accept what my father called "those great long talks" that occupied Grady and me through many a sleepy Alabama afternoon. What happened between us can be expressed in many ways, but its essence was captured by Graham Greene when he wrote that in every childhood there is a moment when a door opens and lets the future in. So this is a story about one person who opened a door and another who walked through it.
It is difficult to describe -- or even to keep alive in our memories -- worlds that cease to exist. Usually we think of vanished worlds as having to do with far-off places or with ways of life, like that of the Western frontier, that are remote from us in time. But I grew up in a place that disappeared, and it was here in this country and not so long ago. I speak of Birmingham, where once there flourished the most complete form of racial segregation to exist on the American continent in this century. 
 Gradystein Williams Hutchinson (or Grady, as she was called in my family and hers) and I are two people who grew up in the 50's in that vanished world, two people who lived mundane, inconsequential lives while Martin Luther King Jr. and Police Commissioner T. Eugene (Bull) Connor prepared for their epic struggle. For years, Grady and I lived in my memory as child and adult. But now I realize that we were both children -- one white and very young, one black and adolescent; one privileged, one poor. The connection between these two children and their city was this: Grady saw to it that although I was to live in Birmingham for the first 28 years of my life, Birmingham would not live in me.
Only by keeping in mind the place that Birmingham was can you understand the life we had, the people we became and the reunion that occurred one day not too long ago at my sister's big house in the verdant Birmingham suburb of Mountain Brook. Grady, now a 57-year-old hospital cook in Atlanta, had driven out with me in the car I had rented. As we pulled up, my parents, a retired couple living in Florida, arrived in their gray Cadillac. My father, a large, vigorous man of 84, parked his car and, without a word, walked straight to Grady and took her in his arms.
"I never thought I'd ever see y'all again," Grady said a little while later. "I just think this is the true will of God. It's His divine wish that we saw each other."
This was the first time in 34 years that we had all been together. As the years slipped by, it had become more and more important to me to find Grady, because I am a strong believer in thanking our teachers and mentors while they are still alive to hear our thanks. She had been "our maid," but she taught me the most valuable lesson a writer can learn, which is to try to see -- honestly and down to its very center -- the world in which we live. Grady was long gone before I realized what a brave and generous person she was, or how much I owed her.
Then last spring, my sister ran into a relative of Grady's and got her telephone number. I went to see Grady in Atlanta, and several months later we gathered in Birmingham to remember our shared past and to learn anew how love abides and how it can bloom not only in the fertile places, but in the stony ones as well.
I KNOW THAT OUTSIDERS TEND to think segregation existed in a uniform way throughout the Solid South. But it didn't. Segregation was rigid in some places, relaxed in others; leavened with humanity in some places, enforced with unremitting brutality in others. And segregation found its most violent and regimented expression in Birmingham -- segregation maintained through the nighttime maraudings of white thugs, segregation sanctioned by absentee landlords from the United States Steel Corporation, segregation enforced by a pervasively corrupt police department.
Martin Luther King once said Birmingham was to the rest of the South what Johannesburg was to the rest of Africa. He believed that if segregation could be broken there, in a city that harbored an American version of apartheid, it could be broken everywhere. That is why the great civil rights demonstrations of 1963 took place in Birmingham. And that is why, just as King envisioned, once its jugular was cut in Kelly Ingram Park in Birmingham in 1963, the dragon of legalized segregation collapsed and died everywhere -- died, it seems in retrospect, almost on the instant. It was the end of "Bad Birmingham," where the indigenous racism of rural Alabama had taken a new and more virulent form when transplanted into a raw industrial setting.
In the heyday of Birmingham, one vast belt of steel mills stretched for 10 miles, from the satellite town of Bessemer to the coal-mining suburb of Pratt City. Black and white men -- men like Grady's father and mine -- came from all over the South to do the work of these mills or to dig the coal and iron ore to feed them. By the time Grady Williams was born in 1933, the huge light of their labor washed the evening sky with an undying red glow. The division of tasks within these plants ran along simple lines: white men made the steel; black men washed the coal.
Henry Williams was a tiny man from Oklahoma -- part African, part Cherokee, only 5 feet 3 inches, but handsome. He worked at the No. 2 Coal Washer at Pratt Mines, and he understood his world imperfectly. When the white foreman died, Henry thought he would move up. But the dead man's nephew was brought in, and in the natural order of things, Henry was required to teach his new boss all there was to know about washing coal.
"Oh, come on, Henry," his wife, Elizabeth, said when he complained about being passed over for a novice. But he would not be consoled.
One Saturday, Henry Williams sent Grady on an errand. "Go up the hill," he said, "and tell Mr. Humphrey Davis I said send me three bullets for my .38 pistol because I got to kill a dog."
In his bedroom later that same afternoon, he shot himself. Grady found the body. She was 7 years old.
Over the years, Elizabeth Williams held the family together. She worked as a practical nurse and would have become a registered nurse except for the fact that by the early 40's, the hospitals in Birmingham, which had run segregated nursing programs, closed those for blacks.
Grady attended Parker High, an all-black school where the children of teachers and postal workers made fun of girls like Grady, who at 14 was already working part-time in white homes. One day a boy started ragging Grady for being an "Aunt Jemima." One of the poorer boys approached him after class and said: "Hey, everybody's not lucky enough to have a father working. If I ever hear you say that again to her, I'm going to break your neck."
Grady finished high school in early 1950, four weeks after her 16th birthday. Her grades were high, even though she had held back on some tests in an effort to blend in with her older classmates. She planned to go to the nursing school at Dillard University, a black institution in New Orleans, but first she needed a full-time job to earn money for tuition. That was when my mother hired her. There was a state-financed nursing school in Birmingham, about 10 miles from her house, but it was the wrong one.
BETWEEN THE DEPRESSION AND World War II, my father and two of his brothers came into Birmingham from the Alabama hills. They were strong, sober country boys who knew how to swing a hammer. By the time Truman was elected in 1948, they had got a little bit rich selling lumber and building shelves for the A.&P.
They drove Packards and Oldsmobiles. They bought cottages at the beach and hired housemaids for their wives and resolved that their children would go to college. Among them,they had eight children, and I was the last to be born, and my world was sunny.
Indeed, it seemed to be a matter of family pride that this tribe of hard-handed hill people had become prosperous enough to spoil its babies. I was doted upon, particularly, it occurs to me now, by women: my mother; my sister, Mary Jo, who was 12 years older and carried me around like a mascot; my leathery old grandmother, a widow who didn't like many people but liked me because I was named for her husband.
There was also my Aunt Ada, a red-haired spinster who made me rice pudding and hand-whipped biscuits and milkshakes with cracked ice, and when my parents were out of town, I slept on a pallet in her room.
Then there were the black women, first Daisy, then Ella. And finally Grady.
I wish you could have seen her in 1950. Most of the women in my family ran from slender to bony. Grady was buxom. She wore a blue uniform and walked around our house on stout brown calves. Her skin was smooth. She had a gap between her front teeth, and so did I. One of the first things I remember Grady telling me was that as soon as she had enough money she was going to get a diamond set in her gap and it would drive the men wild.
There is no trickier subject for a writer from the South than that of affection between a black person and a white one in the unequal world of segregation. For the dishonesty upon which such a society is founded makes every emotion suspect, makes it impossible to know whether what flowed between two people was honest feeling or pity or pragmatism. Indeed, for the black person, the feigning of an expected emotion could be the very coinage of survival.
So I can only tell you how it seemed to me at the time. I was 7 and Grady was 16 and I adored her and I believed she was crazy about me. She became the weather in which my childhood was lived.
I was 14 when she went away. It would be many years before I realized that somehow, whether by accident or by plan, in a way so subtle, so gentle, so loving that it was like the budding and falling of the leaves on the pecan trees in the yard of that happy house in that cruel city in that violent time, Grady had given me the most precious gift that could be received by a pampered white boy growing up in that time and place. It was the gift of a free and unhateful heart.
GRADY, IT SOON BECAME clear, was a talker, and I was already known in my family as an incessant asker of questions. My brother, Jerry, who is 10 years older than I, says one of his clearest memories is of my following Grady around the house, pursuing her with a constant buzz of chatter.
That is funny, because what I remember is Grady talking and me listening -- Grady talking as she did her chores, marking me with her vision of the way things were. All of my life, I have carried this mental image of the two of us:
I am 9 or 10 by this time. We are in the room where Grady did her ironing. Strong light is streaming through the window. High summer lies heavily across all of Birmingham like a blanket. We are alone, Grady and I, in the midst of what the Alabama novelist Babs Deal called "the acres of afternoon," those legendary hours of buzzing heat and torpidity that either bind you to the South or make you crazy to leave it.
I am slouched on a chair, with nothing left to do now that baseball practice is over. Grady is moving a huge dreadnought of an iron, a G.E. with stainless steel base and fat black handle, back and forth across my father's white shirts. From time to time, she shakes water on the fabric from a bottle with a sprinkler cap.
Then she speaks of a hidden world about which no one has ever told me, a world as dangerous and foreign, to a white child in a segregated society, as Africa itself -- the world of "nigger town." "You don't know what it's like to be poor and black," Grady says.
She speaks of the curbside justice administered with rubber hoses by Bull Connor's policemen, of the deputy sheriff famous in the black community for shooting a floor sweeper who had moved too slowly, of "Dog Day," the one time a year when blacks are allowed to attend the state fair. She speaks offhandedly of the N.A.A.C.P.
"Are you a member?" I ask.
"At my school," she says, "we take our dimes and nickels and join the N.A.A.C.P. every year just like you join the Red Cross in your school."
It seems silly now to describe the impact of this revelation, but that is because I cannot fully re-create the intellectual isolation of those days in Alabama. Remember that this was a time when television news, with its searing pictures of racial conflict, was not yet a force in our society. The editorial pages of the Birmingham papers were dominated by the goofy massive-resistance cant of columnists like James J. Kilpatrick. Local politicians liked to describe the N.A.A.C.P. as an organization of satanic purpose and potency that had been rejected by "our colored people," and would shortly be outlawed in Alabama as an agency of Communism.
But Grady said black students were joining in droves, people my age and hers. It was one of the most powerfully subversive pieces of information I had ever encountered, leaving me with an unwavering conviction about Bull Connor, George Wallace and the other segregationist blowhards who would dominate the politics of my home state for a generation.
From that day, I knew they were wrong when they said that "our Negroes" were happy with their lot and had no desire to change "our Southern way of life." And when a local minister named Fred L. Shuttlesworth joined with Dr. King in 1957 to start the civil rights movement in Birmingham, I knew in some deeply intuitive way that they would succeed, because I believed that the rage that was in Grady was a living reality in the entire black community, and I knew that this rage was so powerful that it would have its way.
I learned, too, from watching Grady fail at something that meant a great deal to her. In January 1951, with the savings from her work in our home, she enrolled at Dillard. She made good grades. She loved the school and the city of New Orleans. But the money lasted only one semester, and when summer rolled around Grady was cleaning our house again.
That would be the last of her dream of becoming a registered nurse. A few years later, Grady married Marvin Hutchinson, a dashing fellow, more worldly than she, who took her to all-black nightclubs to hear singers like Bobby (Blue) Bland. In 1957, she moved to New York City to work as a maid and passed from my life. But I never forgot how she had yearned for education.
Did this mean that between the ages of 7 and 14, I acquired a sophisticated understanding of the insanity of a system of government that sent this impoverished girl to Louisiana rather than letting her attend the tax-supported nursing school that was a 15-cent bus ride from her home?
I can't say that I did. But I do know that in 1963, I recognized instantly that George Wallace was lying when he said that his Stand in the School House Door at the University of Alabama was intended to preserve the Constitutional principle of states' rights. What he really wanted to preserve was the right of the state of Alabama to promiscuously damage lives like Grady's.
IT IS APRIL 23, 1991. I approach the locked security gate of a rough-looking apartment courtyard in Atlanta. There behind it, waiting in the shadows, is a tiny woman with a halo of gray hair and that distinctive gap in the front teeth. Still no diamond. Grady opens the gate and says, "I've got to hug you."
Grady's apartment is modest. The most striking feature is the stacks of books on each side of her easy chair. The conversation that was interrupted so long ago is resumed without a beat.
Within minutes we are both laughing wildly over an incident we remembered in exactly the same way. Grady had known that I was insecure about my appearance as I approached adolescence, and she always looked for chances to reassure me, preferably in the most exuberant way possible. One day when I appeared in a starched shirt and with my hair slicked back for a birthday party, Grady shouted, "You look positively raping."
"Grady," my mother called from the next room, "do you know what you're saying?"
"I told her yeah. I was trying to say 'ravishing.' I used to read all those True Confession magazines."
Reading, it turned out, had become a passion of Grady's life, even though she never got any more formal education. For the first time in years, I recall that it was Grady who introduced me to Ernest Hemingway. In the fall of 1952, when I had the mumps and "The Old Man and the Sea" was being published in Life, Grady sat by my bed and read me the entire book. We both giggled at the sentence: "Once he stood up and urinated over the side of the skiff. . . ."
Partly for money and partly to escape a troubled marriage, Grady explains, she had left Birmingham to work in New York as a maid for $125 a month. Her husband had followed.
"So we got an apartment, and the man I worked for got him a job," Grady recalls. "And we got together and we stayed for 31 years, which is too long to stay dead."
Dead, I asked? What did that mean?
For Grady it meant a loveless marriage and a series of grinding jobs as a maid or cook. And yet she relished the life of New York, developing a reputation in her neighborhood as an ace gambler and numbers player. Through an employer who worked in show business, she also became a regular and knowledgeable attender of Broadway theater.
There were three children: Eric Lance, 37, works for the New York subway system; Marva, 33, is a graduate of Wilberforce University and works in the finance department at Coler Memorial Hospital in New York; Reed, 29, works for a bank in Atlanta, where Grady is a dietetic cook at Shepherd Spinal Center. It has not been a bad life and is certainly richer in experiences and perhaps in opportunities for her children than Grady would have had in Birmingham.
At one point Grady speaks of being chided by one of her New York-raised sons for "taking it" back in the old days in Birmingham.
"He said, 'I just can't believe y'all let that go on,' " she says. "I said: 'What do you mean y'all? What could you have done about it?' What were you going to do? If you stuck out, you got in trouble. I always got in trouble. I was headstrong. I couldn't stand the conditions and I hated it. I wanted more than I could have.
"I always wanted to be more than I was," she adds. "I thought if I was given the chance I could be more than I was ever allowed to be."
I felt a pang of sympathy for Grady that she should be accused of tolerating what she had opposed with every fiber of her being. But how can a young man who grew up in New York know that the benign city he saw on visits to his grandmother each summer was not the Birmingham that had shaped his mother's life?
Among black people in the South, Grady is part of a generation who saw their best chances burned away by the last fiery breaths of segregation. It is difficult for young people of either race today to understand the openness and simplicity of the injustice that was done to this dwindling generation. When you stripped away the Constitutional falderal from Wallace's message, it was this: He was telling Grady's mother, a working parent who paid property, sales and income taxes in Alabama for more than 40 years, that her child could not attend the institutions supported by those taxes.
Even to those of us who lived there, it seems surreal that such a systematic denial of opportunity could have existed for so long. I have encountered the same disbelief in the grown-up children of white sharecroppers when they looked at pictures of the plantations on which they and their families had lived in economic bondage.
For people with such experiences, some things are beyond explanation or jest, something I learn when I jokingly ask Grady if she'd like her ashes brought back to Pratt City when she dies.
"No," she answers quite firmly, "I'd like them thrown in the East River in New York. I never liked Alabama. Isn't that terrible for you to say that? You know how I hate it."
WORD THAT I HAD FOUND Grady shot through my family. When the reunion luncheon was planned for my sister's house, my first impulse was to stage-manage the event. I had learned in conversations with Grady that she remembered my mother as someone who had nagged her about the housework. None of the rest of us recollected theirs as a tense relationship, but then again, none of us had been in Grady's shoes. In the end I decided to let it flow, and as it turned out, no one enjoyed the reunion more than Grady and my mother.
"You're so tiny," Grady exclaimed at one point. "I thought you were a great big woman. How'd you make so much noise?"
My mother was disarmed. In the midst of a round of stories about the bold things Grady had said and done, I heard her turn to a visitor and explain quietly, in an admiring voice, "You see, now, that Grady is a strong person."
Grady is also a very funny person, a born raconteur with a reputation in her own family for being outrageous. It is possible, therefore, to make her sound like some 50's version of Whoopi Goldberg and her life with my family like a sitcom spiced with her "sassy" asides about race and sex. But what I sensed at our gathering, among my brother, sister and parents, was something much deeper than fondness or nostalgia. It was a shared pride that in the Birmingham of the 50's this astonishing person had inhabited our home and had been allowed to be fully herself.
"She spoke out more than any person I knew of, no matter what their age," my sister observed. "She was the first person I'd ever heard do that, you see, and here I was 18 years old, and you were just a little fellow. This was the first person I'd ever heard say, 'Boy, it's terrible being black in Birmingham.' "
As Grady and my family got reacquainted, it became clear that my memory of her as "mine" was the narrow and selfish memory of a child. I had been blind to the bonds Grady also had with my brother and sister. Grady remembered my brother, in particular, as her confidant and protector. And although they never spoke of it at the time, she looked to him as her guardian against the neighborhood workmen of both races who were always eager to offer young black girls "a ride home from work."
"Even if Jerry was going in the opposite direction," Grady recalled, "he would always say: 'I'm going that way. I'll drop Grady off.' "
In my brother's view, Grady's outspokenness, whether about her chores or the shortcomings of Birmingham, was made possible through a kind of adolescent cabal. "The reason it worked was Grady was just another teen-ager in the house," he said. "There were already two teen-agers in the house, and she was just a teen-ager, too."
But it is also hard to imagine Grady falling into another family led by parents like mine. They were both from the Alabama hills, descended from Lincoln Republicans who did not buy into the Confederate mythology. There were no plantation paintings or portraits of Robert E. Lee on our walls. The mentality of the hill country is that of the underdog.
They were instinctive humanitarians. As Grady tells it, my father was well known among her relatives as "an open man" when it came to the treatment of his employees. I once saw him take the side of a black employee who had fought back against the bullying of a white worker on a loading dock -- not a common occurrence in Birmingham in the 50's.
The most powerful rule of etiquette in my parents' home, I realize now, was that the word "nigger" was not to be used. There was no grand explanation attached to this, as I recall. We were simply people who did not say "nigger."
The prohibition of this one word may seem a small point, but I think it had a large meaning. Hill people, by nature, are talkers, and some, like my father, are great storytellers. They themselves have often been called hillbillies, which is to say that they understand the power of language and that the power to name is the power to maim.
Everyone in my family seems to have known that my great long afternoon talks with Grady were about race. Their only concern was not whether I should be hearing such talk, but whether I was old enough for the brutality of the facts.
"I would tell Howell about all the things that happened in the black neighborhoods, what police did to black people," Grady recalled to us. "I would come and tell him, and he would cry, and Mrs. Raines would say: 'Don't tell him that anymore. Don't tell him that. He's too young. Don't make him sad.' He would get sad about it."
Grady told me in private that she recalled something else about those afternoons, something precise and specific. I had wept, she said, on learning about the murder of Emmett Till, a young black boy lynched in Mississippi in 1955.
To me, this was the heart of the onion. For while some of the benefits of psychotherapy may be dubious, it does give us one shining truth. We are shaped by those moments when the sadness of life first wounds us. Yet often we are too young to remember that wounding experience, that decisive point after which all is changed for better or worse.
Every white Southerner must choose between two psychic roads -- the road of racism or the road of brotherhood. Friends, families, even lovers have parted at that forking, sometimes forever, for it presents a choice that is clouded by confused emotions, inner conflicts and powerful social forces.
It is no simple matter to know all the factors that shape this individual decision. As a college student in Alabama, I shared the choking shame that many young people there felt about Wallace's antics and about the deaths of the four black children in the bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in September 1963. A year later, as a cub reporter, I listened to the sermons and soaring hymns of the voting rights crusade. All this had its effect.
But the fact is that by the time the civil rights revolution rolled across the South, my heart had already chosen its road. I have always known that my talks with Grady helped me make that decision in an intellectual sense. But I had long felt there must have been some deeper force at work, some emotional nexus linked for me, it seemed now on hearing Grady's words, to the conjuring power of one name -- Emmett Till -- and to disconnected images that had lingered for decades in the eye of my memory.
Now I can almost recall the moment or imagine I can: Grady and I together, in the ironing room. We are islanded again, the two of us, in the acres of afternoon. We are looking at Life magazine or Look, at pictures of a boy barely older than myself, the remote and homely site of his death, several white men in a courtroom, the immemorial Mississippi scenes.
Thus did Grady, who had already given me so much, come back into my life with one last gift. She brought me a lost reel from the movie of my childhood, and on its dusty frames, I saw something few people are lucky enough to witness. It was a glimpse of the revelatory experience described by Graham Greene, the soul-shaking time after which all that is confusing detail falls away and all that is thematic shines forth with burning clarity.
Our reunion turned out to be a day of discovery, rich emotion and great humor. Near the end of a long lunch, my sister and my brother's wife began pouring coffee. In classic Southern overkill, there were multiple desserts. Grady spoke fondly of my late Aunt Ada's artistry with coconut cakes. Then she spoke of leaving Birmingham with "my dreams of chasing the rainbow."
"I used to say when I was young, 'One day I'm going to have a big house, and I'm going to have the white people bring me my coffee,' " Grady said, leaning back in her chair. "I ain't got the big house yet, but I got the coffee. I chased the rainbow and I caught it."
OF COURSE, GRADY DID NOT catch the rainbow, and she never will. Among the victims of segregation, Grady was like a soldier shot on the last day of the war. Only a few years after she relinquished her dream of education, local colleges were opened to blacks, and educators from around the country came to Birmingham looking for the sort of poor black student who could race through high school two years ahead of schedule.
Grady's baby sister, Liz Spraggins, was spotted in a Pratt City high-school choir in 1964 and offered a music scholarship that started her on a successful career in Atlanta as a gospel and jazz singer. Grady's cousin Earl Hilliard, who is 10 years younger than she, wound up at Howard University Law School. Today he is a member of the Alabama Legislature. When Grady and I had lunch with the Hilliards, the family was debating whether Earl Jr. should join his sister, Lisa, at Emory or choose law-school acceptances at Stanford, Texas or Alabama.
If Grady had been a few years younger, she would have gone down the road taken by her sister and cousin. If she had been white, the public-education system of Alabama would have bailed her out despite her poverty. Even in 1950, fatherless white kids who zipped through high school were not allowed to fall through the cracks in Alabama. But Grady had bad timing and black skin, a deadly combination.
At some point during our reunion lunch, it occurred to everyone in the room that of all the people who knew Grady Williams as a girl, there was one group that could have sent her to college. That was my family. The next morning, my sister told me of a regretful conversation that took place later that same day.
"Mother said at dinner last night, 'If we had just known, if we had just known, we could have done something,' " Mary Jo said. "Well, how could we have not known?"
Yes, precisely, how could we not have known -- and how can we not know of the carnage of lives and minds and souls that is going on among young black people in this country today?
In Washington, where I live, there is a facile answer to such questions. Fashionable philosophers in the think tanks that influence this Administration's policies will tell you that guilt, historical fairness and compassion are outdated concepts, that if the playing field is level today, we are free to forget that it was tilted for generations. Some of these philosophers will even tell you that Grady could have made it if she had really wanted to.
But I know where Grady came from and I know the deck was stacked against her and I know who stacked it. George Wallace is old, sick and pitiful now, and he'd like to be forgiven for what he, Bull Connor and the other segs did back then, and perhaps he should be. Those who know him say that above all else he regrets using the racial issue for political gain.
I often think of Governor Wallace when I hear about the dangers of "reverse discrimination" and "racial quotas" from President Bush or his counsel, C. Boyden Gray, the chief architect of the Administration's civil rights policies. Unlike some of the old Southern demagogues, these are not ignorant men. Indeed, they are the polite, well-educated sons of privilege. But when they argue that this country needs no remedies for past injustices, I believe I hear the grown-up voices of pampered white boys who never saw a wound.
And I think of Grady and the unrepayable gift she gave with such wit, such generosity, to such a boy, so many years ago.
Grady told me that she was moved when she went to a library and saw my book, an oral history of the civil rights movement entitled "My Soul Is Rested." It is widely used on college campuses as basic reading about the South, and of everything I have done in journalism, I am proudest of that book.
I was surprised that Grady had not instantly understood when the book came out in 1977 that she was its inspiration. That is my fault. I waited much too long to find her and tell her. It is her book really. She wrote it on my heart in the acres of afternoon.

GRAPHIC: Cover: Gradystein Williams Hutchinson, who was the author's family maid and became his lifelong teacher. <9>Photograph by Ann States/Saba for The New York Times); Photos: The reunion, 34 years later. Back row, from left: Herman Dean, the author's brother-in-law; Jerry W. Raines, the author's brother, whom Grady remembers as her confidant and protector; W. S. Raines, the author's father; Gay Raines, the author's sister-in-law, and Mary Jo Dean, the author's sister. Front row: Bertha Raines, the author's mother; Grady Hutchinson, and the author. Howell Raines's mother greets her former maid. Left: The author's sister and Grady. "I used to say when I was young, 'One day I'm going to have a big house, and I'm going to have the white people bring me my coffee,' " Grady says. (pg. 51); Howell Raines at age 11, and Grady, in the family's kitchen, circa 1955. During those years of segregation in Birmingham, Grady gave the author "the gift of a free and unhateful heart." (pg. 50)(Photographs by Donna Ferrato/Black Star for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BIRMINGHAM (ALA) UNITED STATES (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RACIAL RELATIONS CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); RACE & RACISM (70%); POLICE FORCES (63%); 

PERSON: RAINES, HOWELL; HUTCHINSON, GRADYSTEIN WILLIAMS GRAHAM GREENE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



6 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 6; Page 68; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4639 words

HEADLINE: From Vice to Nice: The Suburbanization of Las Vegas

BYLINE: By Trip Gabriel; Trip Gabriel is a frequent contributor to this magazine.

 BODY:
WHEN THE NOVELIST Richard Wiley learned of a job opening at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas a few years ago, he didn't exactly rush to apply. Like many Americans, he could scarcely fathom the idea that people actually lived in Las Vegas, a place he associated with 24-hour drive-up wedding windows and Wayne Newton getting paid $90,000 a night to sing "MacArthur Park." But after two years as U.N.L.V.'s writer-in-residence, Wiley has discovered an unlikely flip side to the city -- a Las Vegas of backyard barbecues, slow-pitch softball games and sidewalks full of kids on Rollerblades. "It's a wonderful place to live; it's amazing," insists Wiley, who has made this discovery along with 1,250 new arrivals every week. "My whole neighborhood is full of people from someplace else. It's like living in an expatriate community abroad. No one knows where anything is. Everyone's kind of lost."
If Wiley and his neighbors are disoriented, that is the reaction of most people who come through Las Vegas these days. The desert oasis founded on casino gambling is no longer the place that has been fixed in the national imagination for more than four decades as a cheesy mecca of glitz, the ultimate arcade-lined combat zone. 
 Beyond "The Strip," the two-block-wide boulevard of monster hotels that tourists know, is a thriving community of middle-class, 9-to-5 residents who take only glancing notice of the gaudy gambling emporiums. In the past decade Las Vegas has become the fastest-growing city in America, according to the 1990 census, luring newcomers with the prospect of good jobs in a variety of industries, cheap housing, low taxes, safe streets and endless sun. If that is a familiar list, it's because the rise of Las Vegas is the latest chapter in the history of Southwest migration that began 50 years ago in Los Angeles. In one of the least likely settings imaginable, where the only surf is in the wave pool of the Wet 'n Wild theme park, Americans have discovered the New California.
It's strange, but true. For years the Southern California life style was the envy of the nation, and Americans from all over fled into its arms in search of jobs and perfect weather. Lately, however, between the drive-by shootings, the air no one can breathe and the houses few can afford, the region has lost much of its luster. Meanwhile, a five-hour drive up Interstate 15, the original version of the Southern California myth is still going strong, in a desert valley as wide and uncluttered as a clean slate.
While the rest of America faces a grim recession, for the fourth year in a row Las Vegas is leading the nation in number of jobs created. In every direction, California-style planned subdivisions are being built as fast as the supply of Spanish roofing tiles can be replenished.
Most significant, Las Vegas is drastically transforming its image. The city that was once perceived as the moral sinkhole of the country -- home to the mob and every form of vice from gambling to prostitution -- now feels, incredibly, like an acme of wholesomeness. In part, this is due to an ambitious casino industry bent on cleaning up its act to attract a larger, family crowd; in part, it's because the city's housing boom has created spanking new suburbs that seem right out of 50's television shows.
Those suburbs are filling with people like Janet and Max Anzelowitz, retirees from Brooklyn who fell for the neighborliness they encountered. "At the supermarket you get an individual greeting," marvels Janet, a former schoolteacher. "At first, I thought it was an act. I thought, 'Oh, how phony!' But it's real. It's part of the culture. It's nothing like New York."
And with people like Ron Bland, a lumber mill worker who moved his family from the Los Angeles basin, where it had taken one hour in congealed traffic to drive to a job 14 miles away. "We just got fed up with L.A.," Bland says.
And with Randi Friedman, who traded in high-priced Long Island for a desirable subdivision called Green Valley, paying $140,000 for a three-bedroom house. "Green Valley is basically your yuppies," she says. "You see magnificent homes you can buy for a fraction of the price of California or the East Coast, and you see an opportunity."
The numbers show that Las Vegas holds a hot hand. The population of Clark County, which includes the city and its suburbs, grew from 460,000 to 740,000 during the last decade -- a staggering 62 percent. As a result, new construction is also riding high, still catching the wave of the late 80's, when building jobs increased 30 percent and building permits doubled. At the same time, the gambling industry has been recording record revenues, while outside the casinos the economy has greatly diversified with an influx of out-of-state businesses.
"People do a double take when you suggest Vegas as a business address," says John P. Kuminecz, a former vice president of the Nevada Development Authority, which has helped bring 120 new industrial firms into the area in the past 24 months. Kuminecz admits the city's historic image can present a tough sell; the idea of putting down roots next to Glitter Gulch strikes many executives as unseemly. But their perception of the town as a slot-machine purgatory is outdated, and once they take a second look, many are converted.
The majority of relocating firms come from California or were weighing a move to California at the same time as Nevada. When executives waffled about giving up the West Coast, Kuminecz asked them some soul-searching questions: "Can you really enjoy California if you have to spend two hours in the car each way at a snail's pace and you're unable to afford a home?" "How do you enjoy the California Dream?"
"I think we offer a bit of that California Dream that was there 40 years ago," he says. "There's a way to step back 280 miles and get back into that enjoyment of life again."
Not everything, of course, is fabulous in the New California. As its population approaches one million, Las Vegas faces familiar big-city problems, from school overcrowding to water shortages to the sudden emergence of street gangs. But in grappling with these difficulties, the city has a peculiar advantage: most of the newcomers know firsthand how much worse urban life can be. "A lot of our new residents left California because of the falling quality of life, so they appreciate it here in Nevada," says Richard B. Holmes, director of the Clark County Department of Comprehensive Planning. And last year, many of these ex-Californians, clearly trying to avoid making old mistakes, voted for a tax increase to finance Las Vegas's first major public transportation plan.
ALMOST unanimously, the new Las Vegans report they have little to do with the gambling side of town. "The Strip is like a foreign country," says Jim Bingham, a stockbroker who relocated from a small town in Iowa. "My normal Friday night, my wife and I go out for dinner, or we rent a movie and stay home -- just like we did in Iowa." Richard Wiley says he doesn't even look up from his steering wheel when driving past the moat and soaring red turrets of the new Excalibur hotel. "I hardly even notice the place, and here it is, this incredible-looking thing that has come up from nowhere," he says.
Residents are able to avoid the garish, tourist side of town because the city's flash is confined to Las Vegas Boulevard (the official name of the Strip) and to an older downtown district. For dozens of miles beyond, Las Vegas sprawls in a continuum of low-lying homes and shopping malls, where only the occasional slot machine in a 7-Eleven is proof the place is not actually in Phoenix or Sacramento.
In a city so divided, one would expect a sharp clash of cultures: workaday suburbanites versus all-night denizens of the windowless casinos. But this is not the case. There is surprisingly little conflict. In the past 10 years, the two cultures have virtually merged, each in its own way co-opting the other.
The old Las Vegas that was run by gangsters and catered to flamboyant high rollers is mostly a romanticized fiction today. That image was first forged in the 1940's, when the mobster Bugsy Siegel muscled into the desert community with financing from the New York underworld boss Meyer Lansky. The state of Nevada had legalized gambling 15 years earlier, hoping to reverse, among other things, the declining fortunes of Las Vegas, a dusty railroad town founded in 1905.
In 1947, Siegel opened the first of many mega-resorts, the Flamingo. His lavish wagering palace was meant to attract big spenders, tuxedoed tough guys and movie star friends like Cary Grant and Clark Gable. It was Siegel's business masterstroke to link the thrill of gaming with the anticipation and payoff of sex. Suggestively clad cigarette girls, cocktail waitresses and showgirls were everywhere. Inevitably, some worked as call girls for the house, eliminating the infelicitous appearance of open solicitation. That formula -- sex, luxury and the mob's hand in the till -- built and powered Las Vegas for 20 years.
Then in 1966, Howard Hughes encamped on the top floor of the Desert Inn and raised the curtain on a new era. Hughes's pressure on state lawmakers eventually allowed public companies to acquire gaming licenses. These corporations, many of them major hotel chains, didn't need the mob to raise the huge sums required to run gambling casinos, and gradually the gangsters grew obsolete. Though in the popular imagination Las Vegas is still associated with the Mafia, it's been years since an organized-crime figure was hauled in on casino-related charges.
Today many of the hotels are owned by squeaky-clean, image-obsessed companies like Hilton and Holiday Inn. They are staffed by bean counters and micromanagers who live in the same suburbs and sport the same dress-for-success suits as Jim Bingham, the stockbroker from Iowa. If Bingham ever did venture onto the Strip, he would probably find that it looks a lot like his home state. The hottest ticket in town is no longer a revue with bare-breasted showgirls, but the Siegfried and Roy magic act starring white tigers. One of the busiest times in the casinos used to be 5 A.M., but now the action at that hour is dead.
Times have changed both Las Vegas and the rest of America. Neither of the vices that once made Vegas Sin City -- sex and gambling -- are considered particularly sinful anymore. Indeed, the city's sex trade, once controlled by the hotels and casinos, is now to be found mainly in the Yellow Pages, where "escort services" are listed openly -- just as in any other big American city. And legalized gambling can be enjoyed today in Atlantic City, in Deadwood, S.D., on Mississippi riverboats and in numerous state lotteries.
Nevertheless, people who want to gamble, as well as those who don't, are flocking to Las Vegas in unprecedented numbers. Last year, the city pulled 20 million visitors, up 12 percent from the year before. The convention crowd, which often gave the old Las Vegas a pass because of its naughtiness, has increased fourfold since 1977. Thanks to the tourist invasion, the city's McCarran International Airport has become the fastest-growing in the nation.
At a time when Atlantic City's business is in the doldrums, Las Vegas's hotel and casino industry has never been healthier. Since 1989, the city has added 10,000 hotel rooms, bringing the total to 75,000, and by next year it will be home to 9 of the 10 largest hotels in the world.
The new hotels, seeking the family crowd as much as the hard-core gambler, have borrowed a page from the Disney resorts. Every day, Las Vegas looks more and more like a theme park. Its newest and biggest hotel, the 4,000-room Excalibur, carries the medieval motif from its kitschy Camelot exterior to a restaurant where diners eat roast meat with their hands while watching a jousting match.
The Excalibur, however, is due to be one-upped by the 5,007-room MGM Grand, an architectural extravaganza from the billionaire Kirk Kerkorian. Guests will walk on a yellow brick road and enter the casino through a life-size version of the Emerald City. Out back will be other movie-related attractions. Once financially in doubt, the future of the $1 billion resort brightened significantly in May when Kerkorian promised to put up 40 percent of the money himself.
The biggest must-see on the Strip today is not a casino at all, but a 54-foot volcano that erupts in flame, hissing steam and pina colada-scented fumes. The volcano sits in front of the Mirage, a gold-sheathed hotel that sparked the current boom two years ago. "What keeps Las Vegas powerful is every few years it becomes more fabulous, more outrageous," says Steve Wynn, the hotel tycoon who splurged $615 million on the Polynesian-themed Mirage. The quintessential pitchman of the new Las Vegas, Wynn says proudly, "I'm more of a Disney person than a casino guy." Recently he proposed turning a downtown street into a canal, which the local media have dubbed "Las Venice."
Wynn tilts back confidently in his sumptuous office on the Mirage's ground floor, whose glass walls overlook a striking garden with orchids and palm trees. A television set is tuned to a live underwater picture of the hotel's 1.5 million-gallon dolphin pool, Wynn's latest enthusiasm. As the microphone picks up a clicking noise, Wynn explains that it's the sound of a dolphin using its sonar to "echo locate."
He pooh-poohs the idea that the success of his hotel, which reportedly must take in at least $1 million a day to break even, is threatened by the coming MGM Grand. On the contrary, he predicts the same sort of synergy as in Orlando, Fla., where Disney World lures customers to town, but other attractions also benefit. "Kerkorian's going to hire a sales force to fill those 5,000 rooms, and they'll reach out further to sell the family aspect of this town," Wynn says. "And where they gonna come? To the Mirage! They're coming for the midway! We benefit."
Even though Wynn is dressed contemporary casual -- jeans, clean white sneakers and flowery Hawaiian shirt -- he sounds like nothing so much as a 19th-century wagon master holding forth on Manifest Destiny: "This is what's gonna protect Las Vegas in its next generation -- the fact that we're not building little dumps with casinos anymore, we're building fantasy resorts.
"Kirk Kerkorian's going to be successful just like I was," he says. "And then there'll be nobody spending $60 million on little twerp joints anymore. It'll be like, 'We got to spend a-billion-two.' And the game gets richer. The game gets more exciting."
THE HOTEL AND casino industry has been the engine driving the current Las Vegas boom, providing, directly or indirectly, 55 percent of the jobs. But numerous other types of enterprises are mining the same ore, many relocating to take advantage of some of the lowest corporate taxes in the nation. In the past decade, the discount clothier T. J. Maxx has built a mammoth warehouse to be close to its West Coast stores without the expense of West Coast land, Lockheed Engineering and Sciences Company has put up a $10 million testing laboratory, and Citibank has shifted part of its national credit card operations to a grassy knoll that resembles a suburban corporate park.
Inc. magazine has rated Las Vegas, which leads the country in new business starts, as having the best entrepreneurial climate in America. Typical of the new breed is Ed Freed, who moved to Vegas with his wife this year to try to open a new restaurant after his old one, Crazy Ed's Little Chicken Shack, in Kona, Hawaii, flamed out. "We lost our business when the economy fell apart with the gulf war," Freed says. "We did research into the economy, the availability of work and affordable housing." After just two months in Las Vegas, Freed's wife had found a job in retailing and the couple had paid $55,000 for a condominium. "In California that would be just the down payment. You couldn't even buy a dump for that."
Construction tradespeople from depressed real-estate markets elsewhere have also made a beeline for Las Vegas. But often they're in for a rude shock. Local carpenters and roofers habitually work faster than normal to keep pace with demand. "Most of your guys from back East are good but they're slow," Bruce Burns, a construction foreman, said one morning as he and his crew hustled to erect a 1,200-square-foot house in three days. Burns predicted the 30-odd houses in the tract, called Pima Village, would sell fast. "Shoot, I've just been working here a week and a half and I've already had so many people walking up and asking about buying."
Life in the instant suburbs can seem surreal. When driving around, it's almost useless to consult road maps -- they're all out of date. Houses are thrown together and occupied even before the streets outside them are paved or the sidewalks poured. In a blitz to ready a new school, a group of Boy Scouts fills the library shelves with books, while movers sleep in the cafeteria between 21-hour shifts. Even the furnace-like heat of Las Vegas summers, when average daily highs top 100 degrees, doesn't seem to slow the expansion.
The city's growth, however, has produced certain strains. Although the school district has built 31 new schools in just two years, overcrowding is still a problem. Some schools have been forced to use portable classroooms and even schedule overlapping school days, with half the students starting bleary-eyed at 6:15 A.M. Large, impersonal schools with unwieldy numbers of transient students seem to have taken a social toll as well. Cases of juvenile delinquency have grown four times as fast as the student population. And in a clear-cut challenge to Las Vegas's image as a more innocent version of Los Angeles, there has been a sharp rise in street gangs.
A decade ago, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department had only one man assigned to monitor gangs. Today 22 officers keep track of an estimated 6,000 gang members. The city has experienced an explosion in gang-related crime, including two to three drive-by shootings a week. "It used to be the buzzword was narcotics, but right now it's gangs," says Sgt. Mike Dailey as he patrolled one night in gang territory north of the downtown casino district.
"The small-community environment is no more in Las Vegas."
We are driving in the area where many of the city's black and Hispanic residents -- who together make up 20 percent of Las Vegas's population -- live. But Sgt. Dennis Thompson, also riding in the front seat of the unmarked car, notes: "Our gangs come from all walks of life. We've had gang-related homicides in other areas, too."
Turning off Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., the officers enter Gerson Park, a nearly all-black housing project of two-story cinder-block units. Las Vegas's proximity to Los Angeles along Interstate 15, touted by the Nevada Development Authority to draw new businesses, also has a downside: it is a five-hour drive for drug-dealing Los Angeles gang members.
Dailey and Thompson stop to back up a second team of officers questioning three young men, one of whom freely admit he belongs to a Los Angeles gang. "I'm a Schoolyard Crip," says the tall, lanky figure in his early 20's, who identifies himself as Drac.
Dailey, who is fluent in gang genealogy as well as street slang, asks, "You showing these Gersons how to bang over here?"
Drac hotly denies it, explaining that he'd recently been paroled on a drug conviction.
"You still hit the pipe?" Dailey asks.
"Oh man, don't hit me with that," Drac says. "I'm on a natural sherm. I'm on parole. I can't do that."
"Picture time," chimes in one of the officers, Keith Blasko, producing a Polaroid camera. As Blasko photographs the three young men for the gang unit's intelligence files, Drac flashes a Crip hand sign.
"You gonna stay here?" Dailey asks him.
Drac insists he is going straight, claiming that he has moved to town with his mother. "I don't mess with no gangs because they perpetrate and I'm an original," he declares, clapping the backs of his two friends. "That's why I hang out with these squares."
Back in the car, after the cops had sent the three youths on their way, Dailey predicts they will meet up with Drac again. "He's got an attitude problem," he says. "Since he's basically unemployable, he'll be dealing drugs soon enough."
HOISTING THE main sheet of his 14-foot sloop, G. Robert Mahood, a retiree from Philadelphia, prepares for a sail on the private lake that is the prize amenity of a new community called the Lakes. "This is really living out here," says Mahood, the commodore of the Lakes Sailing Club, beneath an unblemished sky. Built on a hill, the 30-acre artificial lake affords a bird's-eye view of the entire Las Vegas valley. The city and its suburbs are surrounded by a horseshoe of treeless mountains that resemble the slag heaps of a Brobdingnagian mining operation. "Good morning, Charlie," Mahood calls to another skipper as the two pass on opposite tacks before a race.
Along the shoreline stands a hodgepodge of new houses commonly referred to by local real-estate agents as "Rodeo Drive." Among the most conspicuous are a gigantic brick mansion with white balconies designed to recall Tara and a Gothic castle, complete with turrets and a slate roof, going for a reported $6 million. Mahood crosses the starting line and soon leads the small fleet of boats, heeling down the lake on a stiff breeze. "This is a winning tack," he says. "I'm going to hold it as long as I can."
Las Vegas, too, would like to hold its winning tack, but even the Sun Belt's most flourishing oasis is showing signs of tarnish. The threat is most apparent to the area's fragile and long-taken-for-granted desert environment. Because of severe water shortages, the city and county have banned any further filling of luxury lakes like Mahood's from the valley's water supply.
Las Vegas is, by and large, a city of refugees from greener climes, and the first instinct of most new arrivals is to reproduce the verdant lawns and golf courses they left behind. Trying to overcome the reality of living in one of the driest regions of the country, they draw water from the Colorado River to irrigate suburbs with names like Montego Bay and Crystal Cove. Residents have been encouraged in their profligacy by water rates that are dirt cheap. Now the Las Vegas Valley Water District has announced it will exhaust available water supplies by 1995. To meet demands of a population expected to double by 2030, the city proposes to pipe in water from as far away as 300 miles -- a plan that has provoked charges from outraged ranchers in the northern part of the state of a Los Angeles-style water grab.
Growth has also dirtied the city's air. Las Vegas's carbon monoxide pollution ranks, surprisingly, alongside New York City's as the fifth worst in the nation. Its levels of ozone, the key ingredient of smog, are only borderline acceptable. On many days a brown fuzz obscures the famous downtown signs.
Not every business migrating from Southern California is motivated by cheap land and taxes. Some are air-pollution refugees, looking to escape tough new environmental restrictions in the Los Angeles basin. "We've had a number of inquiries from industries in Southern California in plating operations, furniture painting and appliance painting," says Richard Holmes, a county planner. Clark County requires less stringent pollution permits for many of these kinds of activities.
The Vegas population explosion has had environmental consequences that few ever paused to imagine. In the suburb of Henderson, subdivisions marched across the desert to the gates of an industrial park that was once miles from a major settlement. Now there are thousands of homes and 11 schools within a five-mile radius. Early in May, the unthinkable occurred: a leak at a chemical plant released a toxic cloud of chlorine gas that forced the evacuation of 10,000 residents and sent 300 to doctors complaining of burning eyes and throats.
THE FORECAST IN Las Vegas calls for growth followed by more growth. To the northwest, on land bought by Howard Hughes for as little as $2.50 an acre, the Summa Corporation is erecting a city-within-a-city named Summerlin that would house 200,000 people. At the opposite end of the valley, six hotels and five golf courses are to be built by the Bass family of Fort Worth, in a $3.5 billion project. Development on such a fantasy scale is possible because the trackless desert surrounding Las Vegas is owned by the Federal Bureau of Land Management, which has classified this land as "disposable."
"The B.L.M. keeps giving away land," says Joe Lambert, a planning commissioner in the neighboring community of Boulder City. "Now we're out of air and out of water and out of roads."
Lambert appears to be one of the few anti-growth voices in local government, which has a tradition of kowtowing to the enthusiasms of the hotel and construction industries. This tradition dates back to the very founding of the Strip, which Bugsy Siegel and the mob built outside the city limits, thwarting all attempts by local politicians to annex the area. To this day the Strip is located not in Las Vegas itself but in an unincorporated area of Clark County -- beyond the control of city officials.
Most political power today resides with the seven-member Clark County Commission, which has for the most part supported unlimited growth. Developers are usually well represented on the county's planning commission.
"A couple of prominent builders with political influence were in Houston a few years ago and they burned that out," Lambert says. "Then they went to Phoenix and burned that out, too. Then they were joined by a couple of others from Denver. They probably have a secret war room with maps somewhere."
The possibility of a Phoenix-style collapse, where a building glut led to a 30 percent drop in property values in the late 80's, is dismissed by most Las Vegas developers. "Right now we're not even considering that possibility," says Terry Murphy, formerly of the Southern Nevada Homebuilders Association. "Vacancy rates for rental apartments are very low, and on new houses we're still having a good time of it keeping up with demand."
But recently, official questions about the city's growth policies have been raised for the first time. A year ago, a man named Don Schlessinger was elected to the county commission as an advocate for managed growth -- a radical concept. Schlessinger's views reflect the quality-of-life concerns of many in Las Vegas's new professional class. "A lot of people are coming here because of problems they left behind -- declining infrastructure and pollution -- and they don't want to see the same mistakes made again," says Hugh Anderson, a stockbroker who moved out from Long Island two years ago.
Despite such dissent, Las Vegas has hardly become a breeding ground for close-the-gates coalitions like those that have sprung up in San Diego and Seattle. Perhaps the awesome expanse of desert, the treeless landscape that looks like an American version of the Australian outback, provides a psychological cushion, a sense of immunity.
Some among Las Vegas's old guard see the march of progress as, above all, a march to respectability. They contend that the city has long been misunderstood, that it has always been more than a tawdry, latter-day Sodom and Gomorrah. "The question they used to ask us was, 'You must live at one of the hotels, there's no residential area, right?' " recalls Mark Moreno, a 32-year resident who also happens to be Wayne Newton's manager. "Now people are beginning to see this is real, that you can live here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The old Las Vegas and the new. Vicky Vance, a dancer at Bally's Casino Resort. (pg. 68); The Rainey family - Danielle, Candace, Mallory, Matt and Gary - in front of their home in Henderson, a new suburb whose subdivisions march across the desert. (pg. 69); New housing at a development called Canyon Gate. In the Las Vegas area, new homes can be occupied even before the sidewalks are poured. (pg. 70/71); Elvis and Roy Orbison are alive and well at the Imperial Palace Hotel. (pg. 71); Building the New California, from top left: Pool-goers at the Wet 'n Wild water park on the Las Vegas Strip. The exploding volcano outside the Mirage hotel, the must-see on the Strip today. Ron and Ronny Bland outside their home in Henderson. "We just got fed up with L.A.," Ron says. (pg. 70); A real-estate agent, Nancy Grady, at the Lakes, a community where Gothic is the latest word. (pg. 71); New arrivals from Long Island, Randi and Lee Friedman and son Matthew, at home in Henderson. (pg. 79); This show may be over, but to many, Wayne Newton still personifies Las Vegas. (Photographs by David Graham/Black Star for The New York Times)(pg. 81)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (98%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WET 'N WILD INC (52%); UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LAS VEGAS (NEV) UNITED STATES (98%); NEVADA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (98%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRENDS (89%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CASINOS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (76%); WATER PARKS (76%); GAMING (73%); SUBURBS (73%); SOFTBALL (69%); DESERTS (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CENSUS (51%); SHOOTINGS (50%); 

PERSON: GABRIEL, TRIP

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



7 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 6; Page 72; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4014 words

HEADLINE: Staving Off the Silencers

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis; Anthony Lewis, a Times columnist, is the author most recently of "Make No Law: The Sullivan Case and the First Amendment."

 BODY:
AMERICANS HAVE MORE freedom to think what we will and say what we think than any other people on earth. We can denounce politicians in uninhibited language. We can read books banned in Britain or Israel. We can even burn our flag, as a political protest, without fear of punishment.
All this we owe to the unflinching guaranty in the First Amendment: "Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press." Those bold words were added to the Constitution, along with the rest of the Bill of Rights -- the first 10 amendments -- on Dec. 15, 1791. We approach the anniversary secure in the knowledge that Americans have been free to speak and publish without fear for 200 years. 
 So we believe. But it is not so simple. The First Amendment did not make us free when it was ratified in 1791. Far from it. Not until 1927 did anyone claiming a constitutional right to freedom of speech or press win a case in the Supreme Court. Those clauses of the First Amendment have been given meaning only by a turbulent history.
Just seven years after the First Amendment was adopted, we had a close brush with the tyranny of silence. The President was John Adams, a Federalist, and the Federalists controlled Congress. In the summer of 1798, they pushed through a Sedition Act that made it a crime to publish false, malicious comments about the President or Congress. It did not reach nasty attacks on the Vice President, Thomas Jefferson -- who was the leader of the oncoming opposition, eventually to be the Democratic Party. It was partisan legislation, designed to silence the opposition in the run-up to the election of 1800. Indeed, the law was to expire on the next Inauguration Day, March 4, 1801.
Just how repressive the Sedition Act could be was made clear by the first prosecution under it. Matthew Lyon, a Jeffersonian Representative from Vermont, had written a letter to the editor of a Vermont paper saying that President Adams was engaged in "a continual grasp for power, in an unbounded thirst for ridiculous pomp, foolish adulation and selfish avarice." It was characteristic political slanging of the day -- or any day in this country. But an indictment charged that the words were "scurrilous, feigned, false, scandalous, seditious and malicious." Lyon was convicted and sentenced to four months in prison and a fine of $1,000, a huge sum then and one that he could not pay. He remained in prison.
Jefferson and James Madison, who had drafted the First Amendment as a member of the House, worked to arouse the states against the Sedition Act. Worried that they would be prosecuted themselves, they acted in secret. Such was the mood of fear created by the act.
Madison wrote the classic American argument for freedom of political speech, passed by the Virginia Legislature as the Virginia Resolutions. "The Sedition Act," he said, "ought to produce universal alarm, because it is leveled against the right of freely examining public characters and measures, and of free communication among the people thereon, which has ever been justly deemed the only effectual guardian of every other right." He went on to make a fundamental point about the American political system. "In this country," he wrote, "the people, not the Government, possess the absolute sovereignty." He was drawing a distinction from Britain, and the distinction is still true today: Parliament is sovereign, and the people have no rights in law if Parliament restricts their freedom.
Madison's argument added up to a theory of not only the First Amendment but the entire constitutional structure. If the people are sovereign, they must be free to examine and criticize those whom they choose to govern from time to time. It is the premise -- the Madisonian premise, it is fair to say -- of democracy.
Not everyone agreed with Madison, of course. John Marshall, later the great Chief Justice, was a Federalist candidate for Congress in Virginia in 1799 and defended the Sedition Act. The state, he said, must be able to protect itself "from the attempts of wicked citizens to disturb the public repose." Government could not be secure "if by falsehood and malicious slander it is to be deprived of the confidence and affection of the people." It was a paternalistic view, and very English. If it had prevailed, this would be a different country.
The constitutionality of the Sedition Act was never tested in the Supreme Court before it expired. But it provoked a great political test. The Adams Administration used the act to prosecute the owners and editors of all the leading Jeffersonian newspapers. The tactic proved to be disastrous. Public outrage, spurred by Jeffersonian talk of tyranny, helped Jefferson to defeat Adams in 1800. When he took office, Jefferson pardoned all those who had been convicted under the Sedition Act.
FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY AFTER that episode, the speech and press clauses of the First Amendment lay essentially dormant. The Supreme Court, starting in the latter part of the 19th century, read the Constitution more and more to protect property. It was hostile to claims of free expression. How hostile became evident when the United States entered World War I and Congress passed an Espionage Act that made it a crime to obstruct the war effort or military recruitment.
In 1918, Eugene V. Debs, five times the Socialist Party's candidate for President, was charged under the Espionage Act for a speech in which -- in passing -- he expressed sympathy with men jailed for counseling others on how to avoid the draft. He was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in prison. He argued that the conviction violated his rights under the First Amendment. But the Supreme Court unanimously rejected the claim, in an opinion by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.
Think of the Debs case in comparison with what happened during the Vietnam War, when hundreds of thousands of Americans opposed the war and none went to prison for mere words. How did we get from the Debs decision to where we are today, when dissidents can rail against Government policy in wartime? How has the received meaning of the First Amendment so changed?
An extraordinary process has taken place, starting just a few months after the Debs decision in 1919, when another Espionage Act case came along. Three anarchists and a socialist had protested President Wilson's dispatch of troops to intervene in Russia after the Bolshevik Revolution, throwing leaflets from the top of buildings in the garment district in New York. For that, they were convicted -- three sentenced to 20 years in prison and the fourth to 15. The Supreme Court again found no protection for their expression in the First Amendment. But this time, Justice Holmes, joined by Justice Louis D. Brandeis, dissented. It was the first Supreme Court opinion arguing that freedom of speech had been unconstitutionally abridged.
"Persecution for the expression of opinions seems to me perfectly logical," Holmes wrote. "If you have no doubt of your premises or your power and you want a certain result with all your heart, you naturally express your wishes in law and sweep away all opposition. . . . But when men have come to realize that time has upset many fighting faiths, they may come to believe even more than the foundations of their own conduct that the ultimate result desired is better reached by free trade in ideas -- that the best test of truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market. . . . That at any rate is the theory of our Constitution. It is an experiment, as all life is an experiment. . . . While that experiment is part of our system I think that we should be eternally vigilant against attempts to check the expression of opinions that we loathe and believe to be fraught with death. . . ."
Over the next 10 years, Holmes and Brandeis, in dissent, wrote many moving tributes to free speech. Brandeis: "Those who won our independence . . . believed that freedom to think as you will and speak as you think are means indispensable to the discovery of political truth. . . . Fear of serious injury alone cannot justify suppression of free speech. . . . Men feared witches and burnt women." Holmes: "If there is any principle of the Constitution that more imperatively calls for attachment than any other it is the principle of free thought -- not free thought for those who agree with us but freedom for the thought that we hate."
Gradually, over time, those dissents became the law of the First Amendment. Holmes and Brandeis, and other Justices after them, persuaded the country -- and the Court -- that freedom of expression was a paramount constitutional value.
HISTORY CAME FULL CYCLE IN 1964, WHEN the Supreme Court returned to Madison's spacious vision of the First Amendment. The case was New York Times v. Sullivan. The Times had published a full-page advertisement seeking support for Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the struggle to win blacks the vote and other civil rights in the South. The ad spoke of brutal tactics by the police and other white officials to put down the civil rights movement. It named no names; but L. B. Sullivan, a city commissioner of Montgomery, Ala., sued for libel, claiming that brutality would be attributed to him because he was in charge of the Montgomery police. An all-white jury awarded him all he had demanded in damages: $500,000, the largest libel verdict in Alabama history. Other Alabama officials sued over the advertisement, and across the South officials seized on libel suits as a new way to keep the national press from covering the civil rights struggle -- by intimidation.
The press then was playing a crucial part in the civil rights debate, reporting more fully than ever on the savageries used to keep blacks segregated and powerless in the South. As Americans learned about those realities, the pressure for national political action grew. Congress passed a series of civil rights laws. Blacks began to vote in substantial numbers, and the politics of the region was transformed.
In short, the system worked as Madison thought it should: an informed public shaping Government policy. It could not have worked in the same way if Sullivan's libel suit and the others that followed had succeeded in scaring away press coverage of the racial issue in the South. The suits were, therefore, a profound challenge to the Madisonian view of the First Amendment -- to its function of assuring open political discussion. But when the Sullivan case came to the Supreme Court, there was a great historical obstacle to applying the First Amendment to it. Libel had always been treated as outside the amendment's protection. No libel judgment, however extreme, had ever been held to violate the Constitution.
Justice William J. Brennan Jr., writing the opinion of the Court in the Sullivan case, cut through that obstacle. The form of a libel action could not obscure the reality, he said, the reality of an attempt to foreclose expression "on one of the major public issues of our time."
Did the First Amendment, then, protect critical comments on Southern officials? Justice Brennan made the Sedition Act of 1798, and the battle against it, the crux of his analysis. He quoted Madison on how the act interfered with the right to examine "public characters and measures." He concluded: "Although the Sedition Act was never tested in this Court, the attack upon its validity has carried the day in the court of history." It was an extraordinary moment: 163 years after the Sedition Act expired, the Supreme Court held it retrospectively unconstitutional.
We live in a society of "uninhibited, robust and wide-open debate," Justice Brennan said, and public officials must live with "sometimes unpleasantly sharp attacks." Because error is inevitable in free debate, not even mistaken criticism can be grounds for an official's libel suit, so long as the misstatement was not deliberate or made with awareness of its probable falsity. Sullivan's $500,000 judgment was reversed, and all the other Southern libel suits that threatened to keep the press away from the civil rights story fell away.
In the years after the Sullivan decision, the Supreme Court applied the Madisonian principle of free expression to a wide range of factual situations. When the Georgia Legislature refused to seat Julian Bond as an elected member because he had sympathized with draft resisters during the Vietnam War, the Court held unanimously that Bond's First Amendment right to free speech had been violated. The facts were remarkably similar to those in Eugene Debs's case; the result was the opposite.
"Freedom for the thought that we hate," which Holmes had urged in dissent, became a reality. The Supreme Court reversed the conviction of a Ku Klux Klan speaker who said that "the nigger should be returned to Africa, the Jew returned to Israel." The Court held that a speaker may not be punished for advocating even the use of force or illegality unless the speech is intended to incite imminent lawlessness and is likely to. A lower Federal court held unconstitutional local ordinances designed to block a march by American Nazis through Skokie, Ill., where many survivors of the Holocaust lived.
Savage ridicule of the eminent is also protected now by the First Amendment. Hustler magazine in 1983 published a parody of a Campari advertisement suggesting that Jerry Falwell, the minister and leader of the Moral Majority, had had a drunken incestuous rendezvous with his mother in an outhouse. A jury awarded Falwell $200,000 in damages for intentional infliction of emotional distress. The Supreme Court held unanimously that the First Amendment protected Hustler. There could be no damages for ridicule, Chief Justice William Rehnquist said, however savage, unless readers would take an attack as factual and it was deliberately false. And no one would take the Hustler parody as a statement of facts.
Finally, there were the two flag-burning cases in 1989 and 1990. Majorities of 5 to 4 held that burning an American flag as a political protest was expression protected by the First Amendment. President Bush called for a constitutional amendment to protect the flag. Congress at first seemed ready to agree, but more and more members -- and their constituents -- came to doubt the wisdom of tampering with the First Amendment. The flag amendment fell short of the necessary majorities in Congress, and the issue disappeared -- perhaps a sign that Americans, or a good many of them, now really accept the idea of freedom for the thought that we hate.
BUT HISTORY IS SELDOM A NICE progressive curve upward, and the modern history of First Amendment interpretation has hardly been that. There have been many dark passages.
Fear of Communism led to successive waves of repression. In the Palmer raids of 1920, Federal agents arrested 4,000 supposed radicals in a single night. Joe McCarthy and other Congressional demagogues feasted on anti-Communism after World War II. Security checks carried out by grossly unfair and inaccurate methods were imposed on Federal Government workers. Blacklisting savaged the entertainment world. And the Supreme Court did very little to hold these outrages up to the light of the First Amendment.
The low point in the Court's modern record was probably its 1951 decision sustaining the conviction of American Communist Party Leaders for conspiring to teach the necessity of overthrowing the Government. A majority, rejecting First Amendment claims, said this group of pathetically ineffectual figures presented a danger serious enough to justify overriding the principle of free speech for ideas that we loathe. The premises of that decision have been eaten away since the Sullivan case, vindicating Justice Hugo Black's dissenting hope that "in calmer times, when present pressures, passions and fears subside, this or some later Court will restore the First Amendment liberties."
WHERE, THEN, DOES THe FIRST Amendment stand as it approaches its 200th birthday? How true are we to Madison's vision of sovereign citizens informed on public matters and freely debating them? How free are we to speak and write what we will?
For me, the most worrying contemporary threat to First Amendment values is the growth of secrecy in the Federal Government. The fear of Communism and the reality of the cold war led successive Administrations to say that national security required more and more of their business to be done in secret. The national security claim was no doubt sincerely made in many instances, but there is no doubt, either, that it was greatly exaggerated. Officials naturally find life easier if they do not have to explain and defend their policies.
The Supreme Court has been at its worst in dealing with the growth of secret government. Rather than applying the independent scrutiny that the First Amendment ordinarily evokes from judges, the Court has bent over backward -- cringed might be a better word -- to defer to national security claims by the Government.
The Court ignored First Amendment interests in the important case of Frank Snepp. A C.I.A. official in Vietnam during the war, Snepp was distressed that at the end the United States left behind many of our Vitnamese intelligence sources -- and files containing their names, which made it certain that they would be mistreated. He wrote a book, "Decent Interval," criticizing high United States officials, and published it without first submitting it to the agency for review, as he had promised to do. The Government sued him.
A majority of the Supreme Court was so moved by the C.I.A.'s secrecy claims that it decided the case against Frank Snepp without letting his lawyers brief or argue the case. The Court held that his promise to clear any manuscripts was a binding contract and that for violating it he must turn his gross receipts from the book over to the Government: nearly $200,000 so far, an amount far larger than the penalty for many grievous crimes. The Court did so even though the Government conceded for purposes of the case that Snepp had disclosed no classified information in the book. It also put Snepp under a lifelong injunction requiring him to clear with the C.I.A. anything he proposes to write or speak about Vietnam or intelligence matters. He has had to clear book reviews and the manuscript of a novel.
On the strength of the Snepp case, the Reagan Administration asked hundreds of thousands of Federal employees to sign secrecy agreements, promising not to write or speak about their work without official approval, even after leaving the Government, for the rest of their lives. We have always relied on former officials to give us insights into the Government. But when their words are submitted to censors, there will always be a tendency to remove the merely embarrassing. Two former Directors of Central Intelligence, William Colby and Stansfield Turner, wrote books after leaving office, submitted them for clearance and complained that C.I.A. censors had removed harmless passages.
In a broader sense, growing secrecy has taken us away from the Madisonian vision of a Government accountable to the sovereign public. The result is a profound departure from the Madisonian -- the constitutional -- premise of accountability. For example, the Framers of the Constitution took particular care to assure that Americans would know how public money was spent. They wrote this exceptionally explicit provision into Article I: "No money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law; and a regular statement and account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from time to time."
In violation of that clause, the C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies are financed in secret, with no published account of their spending. Billions of dollars more are spent on secret weapons projects in what has been called "the black budget." The claim is that secrecy is required by national security. But unwise policy also thrives in the dark, where there can be no criticism or correction, and so do waste and corruption. The hearings on Robert Gates's nomination to be Director of Central Intelligence showed that the C.I.A. had persistently exaggerated Soviet economic and political strength -- an analysis that would surely have been corrected if it had been subject to wider critical examination.
But the Supreme Court, when it had the question of the constitutional clause requiring public accounting of public money before it, once again deferred to the claim of secrecy, It held that members of the public have no standing to challenge the flagrant violation of the clause, so that guarantee has become a dead letter.
The American press has, on the whole, done well in recent decades from the Surpeme Court's renewal of Madison's vision. Emboldened by New York Times v. Sullivan, it has tried harder -- if not consistently -- to penetrate the surface of Government rather than accept official statements as gospel. The First Amendment is not much help when the Government closes off access to the facts, by silencing a source like Frank Snepp or keeping reporters away from the fighting in the Persian Gulf war. But when the press finds something out, the Supreme Court has said the First Amendment ordinarily keeps the Government from stopping publication. The Court allowed The New York Times and The Washington Post to print the Pentagon Papers despite Government claims that grave national security claims would be disclosed -- claims that former officials now admit were nonsense.
The conservative shift in the Supreme Court in recent years has not so far brought any fundamental weakening in the protection of free speech and a free press -- with one menacing exception. In the case of Rust v. Sullivan last term -- the gag rule case -- a 5-to-4 majority upheld a Reagan Administration regulation forbidding doctors in family planning clinics financed in any part by the Federal Government to discuss abortion with patients or even refer them to doctors who would. The precedent is worrying because so many private institutions in this country now rely on Federal funds; universities, public libraries, scientific laboratories, museums and other arts institutions. May officials in Washington now tell all of them what subjects may be discussed in their halls?
THERE CAN BE no permanent assurance of safety in the speech or press clauses of the First Amendment, or in any provision of the Constitution. We rely on our fundamental law, and rightly so, but history shows that the words have to be given meaning by each generation of judges -- and citizens.
But this is a good time to celebrate the First Amendment, for reasons quite apart from the anniversary. In a place and circumstances remote from what James Madison could have imagined, his premise that free speech and a free press make democracy possible has just had a dramatic demonstration.
The Soviet political system, which had ruled by repression for nearly 74 years, was overthrown in days. And freedom of speech and press played a critical part in those stunning events. In five years of Mikhail Gorbachev's glasnost, all kinds of independent channels of communication had opened up: newspapers, magazines, television and radio. The first thing the coup plotters tried to do was to silence those voices, but they failed. Boris Yeltsin broadcast on makeshift equipment from inside the Russian Parliament building. Newspapers somehow were printed. The facts got out. From them, and from the experience of freedom, people drew the courage to resist tyranny.
Speaking truth to power is never going to be easy, not even after 200 years. Indeed, the very idea of unregulated speech remains daring. "The constitutional right of free expression is powerful medicine in a society as diverse and populous as ours," Justice John Marshall Harlan wrote in 1971. But it is, as Holmes said, our great experiment.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM OF SPEECH CENSORSHIP (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); SENTENCING (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



8 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 5; Page 18; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: The Seven Days of Kwanzaa

BYLINE: By ERIC V. COPAGE; ERIC V. COPAGE, an editor with The New York Times Magazine and a member of the steering committee of the New York Kwanzaa celebration, is the author of "Kwanzaa: An African-America Celebration of Culture and Cooking" (Morrow).

 BODY:
ON the day after Christmas 25 years ago, a small group of black Americans in Los Angeles began a nonreligious seven-day celebration commemorating black culture worldwide, particularly the importance of the black community and family.
Since that first unassuming observance, Kwanzaa, which means "first fruits of the harvest" in Swahili, has been adapted into the holiday celebrations in some manner by more than five million African-Americans. And with increasing frequency small, community-oriented events have been paralleled by lavish festivals held at colleges and universities, museums and public institutions across the United States. 
 "Kwanzaa fills a gap," said Larry Crowe, manager of the African-American Book Center in Chicago, who has celebrated Kwanzaa since 1974. "Previously African-Americans didn't have a celebration in which we could recognize our strength as a people, where we could cite the best things about us and try to live up to them."
Kwanzaa is not a substitute for Christmas. In fact, most people who celebrate Kwanzaa also celebrate Christmas. The philosophical bedrock of Kwanzaa, which was developed by Dr. Maulana Karenga, chairman of black studies at the University of California at Long Beach, is the Nguzo Saba, a framework of seven principles for black people to live by all year. The principles, in Swahili and English, are: umoja (unity), kujichagulia (self-determination), ujima (collective work and responsibility), ujamma (cooperative economics), nia (purpose), kuumba (creativity), imani (faith). Kwanzaa is a time to rededicate one's efforts to putting those principles into daily practice. A black, red or green candle on a seven-branched candelabrum is lighted on each of the seven days of Kwanzaa, and each day a family member discusses one of the principles. Deborah Graham, public events manager of the Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis, said the garden decided to sponsor its first Kwanzaa celebration this year after a study showed that many people in the city, which is 49 percent black, hungered for more ethnic programs.
"We are holding our program on Dec. 28, Ujima, the third day of Kwanzaa," said Ms. Graham, who worked with the St. Louis Kwanzaa Committee in creating the event. "Since that day focuses on collective work and responsibility, all programs require audience participation and help by parents." There will be jewelry-making, tie-dying and other workshops, as well as story telling that requires call and response.
A similar program will be held for the sixth year at the Arts Exchange in Atlanta. The first half of the five-hour event, to be held on Dec. 28, will include arts and dance workshops, and a workshop in capoeira, a form of martial arts created by blacks in Brazil; capoeira is so graceful that Brazilian slaves could, on the appearance of a slavemaster, make it appear they were dancing. The second half of the program will include an original drama with music about Soweto given by a professional youth ensemble. For information about other Kwanzaa celebrations in Atlanta call (404) 621-2686.
Travelers who would like to visit public Kwanzaa or pre-Kwanzaa celebrations -- which typically include the foods of black people all over the world, handicrafts and artwork from local merchants, dance and music performances, and books -- should tune in to the local black radio station, pick up the local black newspaper, or look for fliers in black establishments. In Washington, D.C., a 24-hour Kwanzaa Line provides continuous updates at (202) 310-1430.
Here is a sampling of Kwanzaa and pre-Kwanzaa celebrations around the country.
New York. -- There will be a Kwanzaa Holiday Expo Dec. 13, 14 and 15 at the Borough of Manhattan Community College. And on Dec. 27, 28, 29 and 30, there will be food, entertainment and Kwanzaa workshops at the 14th annual Kwanzaa Celebration at the American Museum of Natural History. For more information call (212) 219-4510.
Los Angeles. -- The African American Cultural Center, headed by Dr. Karenga, is holding a number of Kwanzaa events throughout December, one being the candlelighting ceremony on Dec. 26, where canned goods and blankets will be collected and distributed to the homeless. On Dec. 31, the Us Organization holds its Annual Kwanzaa Karamu, or African feast. Information: (213) 299-6124.
Washington. -- Dec. 7 and 8; Dec. 14 and 15 at the University of the District of Columbia's Carnegie Library. During the opening ceremony ministers from Christian, Islamic and traditional African faiths will discuss the meaning and interpretations of Kwanzaa.
Chicago. -- About 1,000 people usually show up on Dec. 28 for the African Market sponsored by the Ujamma Family, a black economic self-help organization. At the market, one can buy food, handcrafted items such as kente cloth, and listen to jazz or traditional African music. More information : (312) 994-1801. On Jan. 1, a program sponsored by the Chicago chapter of the National Black United Front will be held from noon and 6 P.M. in the International Hall of Kennedy King College. Information: (312) 268-7500, extension 154.
Philadelphia. -- The Kwanzaa Cooperative, a clearinghouse for information in the Philadelphia area, will sponsor lectures on Dec. 7, 26 and 28. On Dec. 26, for example, at Temple University, the speaker will be George A. Stallings, founder of the Imani Temple and the African-American Catholic Congregation. For more information call (215) 769-7324 or write Kwanzaa Co-operative, 1542 Fontaine Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19121.
New Orleans. -- The New Orleans Kwanzaa Coalition oversees a communitywide celebration sponsored by local organization and businesses over the seven days of Kwanzaa. The celebration culminates with a Kwanzaa Ball. More information: (504) 561-0036.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Five symbols used in the Kwanzaa ceremony: place mat, fruits and vegetables, corn and a candelabrum. (Harold Dorwin/Anacostia Museum-Smithsonian Institution)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ANACOSTIA MUSEUM (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); ANACOSTIA MUSEUM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANACOSTIA MUSEUM (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); ANACOSTIA MUSEUM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); NYTRAVEL; KWANZAA (CELEBRATION); TRAVEL AND VACATIONS KWANZAA (95%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); CHRISTMAS (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); FESTIVALS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); RELIGION (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%); DANCE (60%); 

PERSON: COPAGE, ERIC V

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



9 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 2; Page 38; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2015 words

HEADLINE: Clearing a New Path for T. Rex and Company

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
Hall by hall, exhibit by exhibit, pterosaur by phytosaur, the American Museum of Natural History is shutting down the dinosaur dream rooms for renovations. Visitors have only until Feb. 1 to climb to the last of the dusty dinosaur halls on the fourth floor and pay their respects to such scarifying old friends as Tyrannosaurus rex, that intemperate but improbably beloved icon for generations of children.
But while old favorites are being systematically sealed behind plywood, a five-story-tall Barosaurus is being unveiled. On Wednesday, the tallest free-standing dinosaur exhibit in the world, the first of the museum's new dinosaur displays, will open to the public. 
 The looming sauropod, a dinosaur never before seen in any museum, appears to be trampling the 150-million-year-old landscape of the Southwest as it defends its young from an Allosaurus. The Barosaurus skeleton, 55 feet tall on its base, is a resin-and-foam replica, since the fossilized bones are too fragile to be mounted vertically to such a height; the original reptile would have weighed 25 tons.
The Barosaurus display is the drum roll for the museum's $45 million reorganization, restoration and replacement of its fossil-vertebrate exhibitions, the most extensive renovation project in the museum's history. Over the next five years, six more fossil halls will be unveiled.
Although some dinosaurs will remain on view during the redesign, there will be a serious dinosaur dearth in Manhattan until two new halls open in December 1994. When the renovation is finished the next year, it will be "the most important and comprehensive display of vertebrate fossils in the world," said Dr. George D. Langdon Jr., president of the museum since 1988.
Curators are marshaling new exhibition technology and scientific knowledge to present more than 700 fossil specimens in significantly different groupings -- according to shared physiological characteristics (what paleontologists call the cladistic approach) rather than a strictly chronological arrangement. In making such a change, they want to do nothing less than alter the way museumgoers think about their mammalian heritage. They hope to help visitors realize that mammals' lineage is as ancient as the dinosaurs'. The renovation also marks a rededication to the scientific mission of the museum. Instead of merely showing off the collection, the designers are trying to relate the new halls to research work conducted at the institution, which has a science staff of 200, including curators, researchers and post-doctoral students.
At the same time, the restoration is an opportunity to rediscover and celebrate a long-lost chapter in the architectural heritage of the museum -- a congeries of 22 structures built over 122 years. Architects are stripping away false ceilings to reveal original windows and ornate Victorian columns and arches of the Romanesque Revival halls, which were built in 1896 by Cady, Berg and See, also the architects for the original Metropolitan Opera House. In addition, the museum is constructing an eight-story library, on the West 77th Street side of the building, to house its 450,000 volumes, the largest natural history collection in the Western hemisphere.
If the renovation marks a rebirth for the dinosaur halls, the museum also hopes it will be a sign of regeneration for an institution that is the largest privately owned and operated science museum in the world. The stakes are high; the need for new donors and greater visibility in the competitive museum universe became painfully evident after city budget cuts last summer, when the museum suffered a 33 percent reduction in operating money (the city owns the museum's land and buildings). Nonetheless, New York City has committed $10 million to the renovation.
"It was very important for us to undertake this project as a symbol of how the museum is moving ahead," said Dr. Langdon. The museum felt pressure to exert more of a leadership role in helping to interpret the recent revolution in dinosaur scholarship to a dinosaur-hungry public.
"We wanted to send a message not only about dinosaurs but also about the future of the museum," Dr. Langdon said. "We think it's unparalleled anywhere for a museum to recreate six new halls in such a short time."
Dr. Langdon's urgency is driven by the desire to showcase a collection that is important not only for its scholarly excellence but for its mythical significance. Since the displays were unveiled at the turn of the century, they have been synonymous with the museum; the specimens themselves are embedded in the city's cultural history. They are symbols of evolutionary catastrophe, emblems of ecological mystery, artifacts of cultural ritual and, perennially, reptilian fantasy pals for visiting schoolchildren.
The fossils are also pawns in a great game, the objects of scientific debate in the controversial world of vertebrate paleontology. And, purely on an economic level, the dinosaur halls help draw three million visitors a year to the museum.
How do you tamper with such a celebrated exhibition? "Carefully," said Samuel Taylor, the museum's director of exhibitions. "We asked people, 'What do you love and what do you hate about the dinosaur exhibit?' And the thing that people love about our halls is that they haven't changed in the last 50 years. They were there when people first came into the museum, and they're old and stuffy and comfortable. But then we asked, 'What do you hate about the dinosaur exhibits?' And people used exactly the same words -- that they haven't changed in 50 years."
The reinstallation was necessary because the exhibitions "were physically old and the information about dinosaurs was really outdated," said Dr. Taylor. "We've long awaited a time when we could address all the problems in the halls."
With only a few dinosaurs on view after February, the museum is hoping that the titanic Barosaurus will close the dinosaur gap for much of the renovation. The cast of the giant herbivore, from the Jurassic period (208 million to 144 million years ago), will stand in the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Hall at the main entrance, on Central Park West and 78th Street. The protective Barosaurus is frozen at the instant it begins to drop down in an attempt to crush the attacking Allosaurus with its massive front limbs.
The pose of the Barosaurus is scientifically provocative. "This is a spectacular mount," said Dr. Lowell Dingus, project director of the renovation program, "but we're trying to use it to make a point. Could this animal have reared up in this way to protect its young? Would it have actually taken care of its young? The entire exhibition will provoke these kinds of questions."
Although other museums have invested heavily in noisy, colorful, attention-grabbing computer-animated dinosaur models, "we didn't want to be entertainment-oriented," said Dr. Michael J. Novacek, the museum's vice president and dean of science. "We wanted to stay away from bells and whistles. We think the dinosaurs themselves are so alluring that they'll draw adults and children into the science of it."
Originally, the museum considered adding a new dinosaur wing, tacking it onto the existing museum. "But it would have taken too long to get it done, and we wanted to move ahead now," said Dr. Langdon.
The designers planned to build the new dinosaur halls "within a black box, so we could control the lighting and the exhibit environment," said Dr. Taylor. "When we began punching holes in the walls to see what was there, we discovered, to our delight, that all the original architectural detail was intact." A year ago, the museum decided to liberate the original architecture as it reinstalled the collection.
"Our guiding principle has been to open all the halls up to their former grandeur, and to let the architecture shine through," said Dr. Dingus. In the new Early Mammal Hall, the designers will expose the original cast-iron columns and 20-foot-high, floor-to-ceiling windows, some of which overlook Central Park.
The architect for the renovation is Kevin Roche John Dinkeloo Associates, which designed the master plan and new wings for the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The project designer is Ralph Appelbaum Associates. Hardly the least of the blessings they will bring to the new halls is that most practical of accessories, air-conditioning: for the first time the collection will benefit from climate controls to protect the specimens.
The new fossil halls will form a continuous loop so that visitors can experience the sweep of paleontological history. There are to be two halls of dinosaurs, a hall focusing on fossil fish and amphibians, and two halls of fossil mammals; museumgoers will begin in the new Orientation Center, where the logic of the rooms will be explained. The halls will contain interactive displays and exhibits examining evolutionary puzzles and the mysteries posed by fossil records.
The halls are designed to illustrate the history of vertebrates according to the cladistic approach, a choice criticized last year by Dr. Edwin H. Colbert, a former curator of vertebrate paleontology at the museum. Dr. Colbert argued that fossils should be grouped chronologically. But the new exhibition's designers defend the alternative system.
"The revelation of the cladistic approach is that our lineage is as old as that of the dinosaurs," Dr. Dingus said. "Mammals and dinosaurs probably arose at roughly the same time, about 200 million years ago."
There will also be new specimens to accommodate the cladistic organization. Among them will be a 15-million-year-old, bearlike carnivore, Amphicyon, shown at the moment it springs on its prey, the antelopelike Ramoceros.
Familiar specimens will be remounted to reflect scientific discoveries that have overtaken their original presentation. For example, Tyrannosaurus rex was mounted in an erect posture on a steel armature in 1910. "It's not impossible that T. rex would have been in that position," said Dr. Dingus, "but it wouldn't have walked regularly that way."
Now Tyrannosaurus will be portrayed in what is believed to be its stalking position: head down, tail up, moving at top speed. The head will be placed so that its ferocious skull looms just above the heads of visitors, "so they can get a sense of what it would have been like to have this thing coming after them," said Dr. Dingus.
More startling, the Brontosaurus, which has come to define the very image of the dinosaur, isn't really a Brontosaurus. It is most accurately called an Apatosaurus and will be so labeled in the new exhibition. The former Brontosaurus has been in place since 1905, but with the wrong head. Furthermore, when the specimen was first assembled, the neck of the Apatosaurus was too short, "so we needed to add several neck vertebrae," said Dr. Dingus.
Adding such vertebrae can be challenging. "The larger cervical vertebrae weigh 250 pounds," said Phillip Fraley, the supervising assistant in charge of rebuilding specimens. "The left femur weighs 850 pounds. We have to be concerned about the effect of dismantling the current specimens, which can be damaged even by the vibration of the tools that are used to take them apart."
For the museum's Vertebrate Paleontology Laboratory, it is a time of frenzied preparation. More than 1,000 specimens are being readied for their presentation in the new halls, or prepared for storage. "This a laboratory where one person might work on one specimen for six months, getting the fossil out of its matrix," said Jeanne L. Kelly, the supervising exhibition assistant. "So you can imagine how tight our schedule is."
The nightmare of many working on the project is, of course, the classic scene in the 1938 film "Bringing Up Baby," in which Katharine Hepburn, the madcap heiress, brings down the dinosaur skeleton assembled by the absent-minded zoologist played by Cary Grant. Said Mr. Fraley: "You tend to think about that scene when you do this sort of work." He smiled. Ruefully.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Allosaurus, left, attacks the Barosaurus in a new installation at the American Museum of Natural History. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (NYC) AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (NYC) AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: DINOSAURS; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); HISTORY (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); MAMMALS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



10 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By Carl Sommers

 BODY:

Getting Super Bowl Tickets
Q. I would like to attend the 1992 Super Bowl but am wondering how to get tickets. Any help? -- Leonard Kudlack, Clifton, N.J. 
 A. Super Bowl XXVI will take place Jan. 26 at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis. Tickets are always difficult to get for a Super Bowl, as many are reserved by the National Football League and by corporations. But there are companies, which often advertise in newspaper sports sections, that sell tickets either as part of a tour package or separately. Here is a sampling.
Regal Sports Vacations, 3029 West 39th Street, Suite 3011, Indianapolis, Ind. 46208, (317) 291-9500, offers Super Bowl packages for $1,495 a person with two or three in a room. Included are three nights and four days lodging in a "first class" hotel (quality like a Sheraton, the company says) and transfers to and from the game. All seats are on the sidelines, not in the end zones, the company says. The company also offers a package for $1,199 a person, that includes lodging outside Minneapolis and seats that may be in the end zone.
National Travel Vacations, 916 Pleasant Street, Norwood, Mass. 02062, (800) 525-5009, offers packages, $1,899 a person in double occupancy, that include air fare, five nights at the Americinn Motel, in New Richmond, Wis., four Continental breakfasts, four dinners, transportation to and from the game, end zone seats, and tours of various sites in and around the Twin Cities.
Great Atlantic Travel and Tours, 518 Laskin Road, Virginia Beach, Va. 23451, (800) 888-8233, offers packages including game seats at three price levels: $975 a person in double occupancy, includes three nights at economy lodging, an economy rental car and end zone or better seat; $1,495 a person, with three nights in a Marriott or similar hotel, and daily Continental breakfast; and $2,150 also at the Marriott with daily breakfast plus airport transfers, pregame brunch, transportation to and from game, entry to the pregame gala and a game souvenir.
Murray's Tickets, 740 West King Boulevard, Los Angeles, Calif. 90037, (800) 333-9336, sells tickets separately, from $650 on the end zone to $1,500 for near midfield. Packages including three nights at the Country Suites by Carlson hotel, daily breakfast, pregame brunch, and end-zone seat are $1,649 a person in double occupancy.
 
 
Volunteering on Vacation
 Q. Six of us in our late 50's or early 60's would like to volunteer our labor for a short time doing something like painting where we could work together in exchange for food and possibly board. One of us is a skilled craftsman. -- Nancy Strong, Newtown, Pa.
A. One possibility is Habitat for Humanity International, 121 Habitat Street, Americus, Ga. 31709, (912) 924-6935, which builds and rehabilitates housing for low-income people in the United States and abroad. Domestic projects are organized by more than 680 local affiliates in all 50 states; the central organization will supply a directory (ask for affiliate placement) and you can check with affiliates that interest you. Housing and meals are also arranged locally, often through churches, and a donation of $50 to $200 a person may be asked. The Americus office organizes foreign visits, mainly in Central America, Africa and Asia, sending groups of 10 to 15 people for projects lasting 10 days to three weeks. The participants may live together in pension-type arrangements or be put up in local homes. The cost for a two-week work camp in Latin America averages $900 to $1,000 a person, and for three weeks in Africa or Asia, $2,000 to $2,500; the cost includes air fare, lodging and meals and a contribution toward the materials for the home being built.
The Council on International Educational Exchange organizes work camps, in which about 10 volunteers from different countries serve two or three weeks on a community service project in the United States or abroad. Examples include building a community center or playground or renovating low-income housing. The groups are provided with a place to live together, and the group itself works out arrangements for cooking and other chores. The council says that most volunteers on these projects are in their early 20's, though older people often enjoy living and working with the younger ones. More information: C.I.E.E., 205 East 42d Street, New York, N.Y. 10017; (212) 661-1414, extension 1131.
The council publishes a book, "Volunteer!," that describes more than 170 organizations in the United States and abroad with opportunities for service. The book can be ordered from the Publication Department of C.I.E.E. at the address above. Orders must contain a check or money order for $8.95 plus $1.50 for mailing book rate or $3 first class.
 
 
Vermont to Montreal by Rail
 Q. I saw a map that indicated Amtrak stops at White River Junction and Montpelier, Vt. on a route up to Montreal. However, the Amtrak clerks say there is no such route, nor is there one on the Amtrak schedule map. Is there such a route? -- Frank C. Eckmair, Buffalo
A. There is a train, running between Washington and Montreal, that makes stops in Vermont. It is the Montrealer, which, heading north, stops in Brattleboro and Bellows Falls, Vt., Claremont, N.H., and then back in Vermont, in White River, Montpelier, Waterbury and Burlington. The northbound train -- ask for No. 60 if the clerk cannot identify it -- leaves Washington daily at 4:10 P.M., stopping at New York at 8:20 P.M., White River Junction at 5 A.M. and Montpelier at 6:15 A.M., reaching Montreal at 10:45 A.M. The southbound train, No. 61, leaves Montreal daily at 5:10 P.M., stopping at Montpelier at 9:15 P.M. and White River Junction at 10:40 P.M., arriving at New York at 7:24 A.M. and Washington at 11:36 A.M.
Train service on part of the route was halted in April 1987 because of poor track in some sections, and buses carried passengers between Springfield, Mass., and Burlington, Vt. Trains returned to the route in July 1989.
A ticket from Washington to Montreal is $98, plus $93 for a roomette or $152 for a bedroom. From New York to Montreal, the cost is $67, plus $69 for a roomette or $117 for bedroom. More information: (800) 872-7245.
 
 
Rain in Spain?
 Q. I will be in Spain during January, a week each in Madrid, Barcelona and Andalusia. What kind of weather can I expect? -- R. L. Cohen, Long Island City, Queens
A. In January, the average daily high in Madrid is 47 degrees and the low is 35. In Barcelona, the high averages 55 and the low, 43. In Andalusia, Seville has an average high of 59 and a low of 42. The weather is relatively dry. Madrid and Seville average eight rainy days in January and Barcelona, five. New York has 12 rainy days in an average January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (76%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COUNTRY SUITES BY CARLSON (51%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (76%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TOUR PACKAGES (75%); TOUR OPERATORS (75%); VOLUNTEER TOURISM (75%); AIR FARES (65%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



11 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:

Right to New Windows
 
Question: I am one of several tenants who chose not to buy when our building was converted to a co-op. Recently the apartment owners were offered an opportunity to buy double-glazed windows through one source at a discount. New windows are badly needed to block the cold and decrease street noise.
Some of the rental tenants asked to be allowed to buy new windows but have been refused. As rent-stabilized tenants, do we have the right to be able to buy new windows? . . . Brian Glasser, Manhattan 

Answer: Maybe. Joseph D'Agosta, an assistant commissioner with the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal, said your possible right to the new windows would not be covered in the rent code.
"The rules that mandate equal treatment and services have not been violated here," he said."There has not been a reduction in services or facilities and the landlord would not be required provide new windows."
A provision of the New York State General Business Law (Sec. 352 eeee) says that "managing agents shall provide nonpurchasing tenants all services and facilities as required by law on a nondiscriminatory basis." The state Attorney General's office expressed uncertainty whether this rule would apply.
 
An Overflowing Creek
 
Question: My house is about 25 yards from a creek. Several years ago the town put a corrugated pipe in the creek and covered the land in preparation for development. Since then the creek has backed up whenever there are heavy rains, flooding my property. Would I have a claim against the town for some sort of tax adjustment or reimbursement for the damage? . . .Theodore Hoogenboom, West Islip, L.I.
 
Answer: Maybe. Guy W. Germano, a Uniondale, L.I., lawyer specializing in real estate matters, said that in general a municipality in New York may be held liable for acts that damage private property. However, your claim may be too late because under the General Municipal Law, (sec.50-i) suits against a town must be begun within one year and 90 days of "the happening of the event upon which the claim is based." The New York Court of Appeals, Mr. Germano said, has interpreted this to refer to the act of the municipality and not to the cuse of action. In your case, the statute of limitations began to run when the town installed the pipe.
"As to the possible reduction in assessment," said Mr. Germano, "the owner must establish, by the expert testimony of an appraiser that the flooding has caused an actual reduction in the property's value."
A grievance concerning property assessment in Suffolk County must be filed with the Board of Assessment Review of the town in which the property is located by the third Tuesday in May.
 
Lien Against Co-op Shares
 
Question: I own a co-op apartment. A rupture of the plumbing in the walls of my apartment caused damage to the apartment below. The co-op board claims I am responsible for paying for the repair work. I have refused because the problem was not due to my negligence. But the board has put a lien against my stock certificates. Is this legal? . . . Wei Mon Auyoung, the Bronx
 
Answer: Maybe. Philip Sharfstein, a lawyer specializing in real estate matters, said the by-laws of co-ops typically provide that the corporation has the right to put a lien on shares for any indebtedness it is owed by a shareholder. However, proprietary leases of most co-ops say that the co-op is responsible for repairs to pipes within walls. The exception, Mr. Sharfstein said, would be if the pipes were installed by the shareholder or if the internal leak was caused by the shareholder.
"If the shareholder is responsible for the broken pipe," said Mr. Sharfstein, "the cost incurred by the co-op in making the repair may be charged to the shareholder together with interest."
Mr. Sharfstein suggested that if you feel the repair cost should not be yours you consult a lawyer and review the co-op's casualty insurance policy and any policy you may have.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL BUSINESS SYSTEMS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FLOODS & FLOODING (69%); TAX ASSESSORS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); WEATHER (64%); TESTIMONY (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



12 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: Housing the Dependent;
Times Square Hotel as the Biggest S.R.O.

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
METAMORPHOSIS is under way once again at the Times Square Hotel, on the northeast corner of 43d Street and Eighth Avenue. It has housed tourists and the poor, transients and low-income workers, welfare tenants and the frail elderly. It has had problems.
Now the partially occupied hotel is in the midst of reconstruction into a permanent residence for low-income single adults, including many dependent on a high level of social services. With 652 rooms, it is more than three times larger than any other project financed by the city's S.R.O. Loan Fund. A $16.1 million rehabilitation is under way. Completion is scheduled for November 1993, but new tenants should start arriving by next September. 
 A key issue is whether the nonprofit owner will succeed in attracting the significant proportion of unsubsidized tenants that its rental plan envisions. These tenants are expected to provide both fiscal support and social balance. With or without them, the project will be a test of how well a large building with a heavy concentration of dependent individuals can function in the sometimes turbulent Times Square environment.
The Times Square Hotel was built in 1922 as a tourist hotel for men, with 1,000 rooms. In the 80's it was bought by Covenant House, which provides housing and other services to runaway youngsters and owned neighboring property. Then Covenant House sold it to New York International Hostel, taking back a mortgage. The hostel company went into bankruptcy, Covenant House defaulted on its mortgage (from Charles Keating's Lincoln Savings & Loan), and the property fell into the hands of the first mortgagee.
That partnership, headed by Arthur Schwebel, who ran the building from 1962 to 1981, negotiated a sale to a newly formed nonprofit housing company, Common Ground Community Inc., which won the support of Mayor David N. Dinkins for city acquisition and reconstruction financing. The sale price was $9.5 million.
Mr. Dinkins approved the project over the objections of economic development officials, who were concerned over the possible impact on the Times Square redevelopment plan. Housing officials also had reservations, and insisted on substantial funding to assure against failure if expected rents fall short.
The Mayor's approval was a tribute to the efforts of Rosanne Haggerty, the founder and executive director of Common Ground, and her success in mobilizing support. A 31-year-old graduate of Amherst College, Ms. Haggerty was the director of the housing office of Brooklyn Catholic Charities for seven years before leaving to become a housing consultant. Working with Bruce Becker, an architect whose firm, Becker & Becker Associates of New Canaan, Conn., has designed S.R.O. housing for other nonprofits, she put together the proposal to buy the hotel.
"It is being called the 'mother of all S.R.O.'s,' " she said with a smile, although it is not a conventional single-room-occupancy building since all the rooms will have private baths and kitchen facilities.
The size does not faze her. "Covenant House had almost 700 permanent tenants and it wasn't troublesome until transient homeless families started coming in," she said. "We said, 'Let's improve the physical plant and the social services."'
Common Ground's rental plan reveals the challenge it faces.
LIVING in the building currently are 200 long-term tenants. Some are retired people with a steady source of income. Others are low-income elderly people who are probably entitled to housing vouchers and have been encouraged to come forward to report their income and obtain them.
Of the currently vacant apartments, 226 will go to homeless individuals from the city's transitional shelter system. Fifty of these tenants will be AIDS victims; 130 will be people who have a history of treatment for mental illness. Tenancy standards will bar any tenant with a recent history of drug abuse. The remaining 46 tenants from the shelter system will either be employed or in training for employment.
Finally, there will be a component of 226 new tenants who are not from the shelter system. Under the plan, 96 will be subsidized individuals with incomes under $15,600 (60 percent of median income for a single individual in the metropolitan area) and 130 will be unsubsidized tenants whose incomes will have to be below $22,700 a year (80 percent of median). These tenants will have to be willing to report their income even though they have no housing subsidy.
The expectation is that the 130 unsubsidized tenants will produce about $1 million a year in rent. Common Ground plans to use money it will raise through tax-credit financing to contibute to a substantial reserve to assure stable operations even if the unsubsidized rent projections fall short. The goal is $12 million to $15 million in private funding, made possibvle after a generous allocation of tax credits from the state Division of Housing and Community Renewal only last week. Also, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development has financed the project beyond the level needed for acquisition and construction. The total commitment is $28.8 million.
Will unsubsidized tenants be willing to rent at the hotel? Mr. Schwebel, the former owner, predicts that once it is renovated the building will be able to rent out 150 to 200 rooms at $450 to $600 a month. "I don't think it will be a problem," he said.
BUT doubters are not hard to find among people with experience in housing management. "It is not realistic to think that people will live in an institutional setting if they have a choice," said Robert C. Rosenberg, president of Grenadier Realty Corporation, one of the city's largest managers of lower-income housing. "And in a soft market they have a lot of choice."
All the rooms will have upgraded private baths and kitchen facilities. The rooms are mostly 110 square feet, not including the bath. The heating system will be changed to hot water from steam, sprinklers and a new fire-alarm system will be installed, all the windows will be replaced and the 7,200-square-foot lobby will be will be painted and restored. There will be seven-day-a-week, 24-hour-a-day security coverage at the entrance at 225 West 43d Street.
Common facilities will include a library, exercise room, game room, TV lounge and a 7,000-square-foot roof deck. But the city's housing agency insisted on fiscal restraint, vetoing, for example, a 15th-floor kitchen and dining room. Common Ground, however, hopes to be able to pay for this improvement with private funds. It would free street-level commercial space for leasing, Ms. Haggerty said.
There will also be 10,000 square feet of space unobtrusively placed on the mezzanine level as offices and program space. Columbia University Community Services will provide the tenant services under contracts with state and city agencies. There will be a fulltime social-services and mental health staff of about 40 when the building is fully occupied, said Anthony Hannigan, director of Columbia University Community Services.
Mr. Hannigan is a member of Common Ground's board of directors. The chairman is Douglas Lasdon, executive director of the Legal Action Center for the Homeless. Among the other members are Patrick Horvath, managing attorney for the Legal Action Center for the Homeless; the Rev. Donald Sakano, director of the Housing Development Institute of the Archdiocese of New York; the Rev. Laura Jervis, director of the West Side Federation for Senior Housing; and Ellen Baxter, director of the Broadway Housing Corporation.
The Times Square Hotel project calls attention to the S.R.O. Loan Program itself. It has committed $110.4 million of city capital funds since 1987 to create 2,680 housing units for single adults in rehabilitated buildings run by nonprofit operators. The long-term plan calls for spending $268 million by 2001, for a total of 5,700 units.
The city typically spends about $7,000 a unit to buy a building; it paid $14,000 a unit for the Times Square Hotel. The larger building provides economies in construction and operations that compensate for the higher acquisition cost on a unit basis.
Nine of the 10 projects currently in construction will produce 700 apartments, or an average of 78 a building. The 10th is the Times Square Hotel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosanne Haggerty, third from right above, owner, with residents of the Times Square Hotel (William E. Sauro/The New York Times), right, at 43d Street and Eighth Avenue. (Kim Garnick/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE GROUP INC (54%); COVENANT HOUSE (83%); COVENANT HOUSE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COVENANT HOUSE (83%); COVENANT HOUSE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; TIMES SQUARE HOTEL; SRO LOAN FUND (NYC); HOMELESS PERSONS; HOUSING; SINGLE-ROOM OCCUPANCY REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TOURISM (78%); HOMELESSNESS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); MAYORS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



13 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
Signs of Life Stir in Connecticut Housing

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
AFTER three years of recession, signs of recovery are beginning to emerge in Connecticut's home building industry. "The decline in the numbers of permits is leveling off," said Chris Cooper, communications officer for the state's Department of Housing.
Permits were issued for 1,049 units in October, still 5.2 percent less than in October 1990. "But we started 1991 with a decline of 20 percent," Mr. Cooper said. 
 Sales are spotty and buyers fussy about style, quality and price and are showing a preference for new construction. Kendall Green, a 34-unit town-house condominium on 2.8 acres that opened in Milford last month, and Sinnott Farm, a 66-lot subdivision being built on 80 acres in Bloomfield, are typical of what is selling, slowly but steadily.
Older homes and condominiums, according to RE/Max Realtors in Milford, Compass Realty in Bloomfield and real estate agents throughout the state, are languishing, perceived by buyers as overpriced and outmoded.
Theresa Dauscher and Dan Fearnley will move into a $119,900 town-house condominium unit at Kendall Green after their marriage in January. Primed for the cautious 90's, Mr. Fearnley said:
"We don't want to rent. We want to build equity and we want solid appreciation in value. We both work during the day, go to school at night, so we don't want a lot of house to take care of but we want the feeling of living in a home."
They liked the quality of construction at Kendall Green, the neighborhood setting and the Williamsburg colonial style.
Lining both sides of a landscaped divider, 13 buildings separated by additional landscaped islands will contain two 1,100 square foot town houses each. Private side entrances, at right angles to one-car garages, have dark-red paneled doors topped with handsome pediments.
The units contain a living room, kitchen with dining area and access to the garage, and a half bath on the ground floor. One bedroom, a study or second bedroom, bathroom and attic are upstairs. Central air- conditioning, all appliances, landscaping, maintenance-free vinyl siding and double-paned vinyl windows are included. Eight flats in two more buildings will not have garages, and after Jan. 1 the base price will rise to $129,900.
IN the Bloomfield development, among the buyers are Jackie and Brian Richards from Des Moines, who are expecting their first child in March. Transferred to Connecticut in September by Mr. Richards's employer, they bought a house for $129,900 at Sinnott Farm "after an exhausting search of the area," Mrs. Richards said. They will move in on Dec. 13.
The 80-acre subdivision offers homes on lots of up to a third of an acre, with free use of an on-site recreation compound containing tennis courts, ball fields and a children's playground. The Richards's house is indistinguishable, except for size, from other homes that cost up to $258,000.
A minimum of 17 smaller homes are to be integrated into the total of 66 houses as a result of a Fair Housing Compact devised by the Capitol Region Council of Governments. Bloomfield was among 25 of the 29 Greater Hartford area communities to adopt the concept, created as enabling legislation by the state's General Assembly in 1989.
Committed to build up to 205 units of affordable housing within five years, Bloomfield is one of the first communities to carry out the plan.
When sales at Sinnott Farm fell prey to the recession, the builder, the Stich Development Group of Farmington, applied for permission to build smaller, cheaper units. Using the Fair Housing Compact, Thomas B. Hooper, Director of Planning for Bloomfield, said, "we modified our zoning to allow them to construct up to one-third the total number of houses with half the original floor area."
To protect the value of the larger homes, buyers of the smaller homes are supplied with a Stich plan for expansion that is pre-approved by the zoning commission. In addition, the builder cannot leave any part of the structure unfinished at the time of occupancy. Style, materials and landscaping must be in keeping with the rest of the neighborhood.
The basic 1,250 square foot, two-story house has a living room with bay window, kitchen, dining room and powder room on the ground floor, three bedrooms and full bath on the second floor, a porch, one-car garage, basement, landscaping and vinyl siding.
"It appeals to all kinds of people," said Kathleen Rose, vice president of marketing for the developer. The buyers of four of six homes sold expanded the houses before moving in. "They can't overbuild for the neighborhood because of the preponderance of higher- priced homes up to 2,200 square feet," she said.
Buyers cannot be forced to enlarge their homes, but if they do, they are free to use Stich or any other qualified contractor.
MARY AND PAUL LAPOINTE, a middle-aged couple with no children, moved into their Sinnott Farm home in November after adding a family room, a fireplace and an enlarged garage accommodating a second car, pushing the price up to $152,000.
"Compared with other developments this was the highest quality home we saw at the most reasonable price," Mrs. Lapointe said. "The architecture is interesting, the countryside is gorgeous and the lots have a good deal of space between houses."
Stich will build more of its luxury line at Sinnott Farm, "but we will continue to respond to the demand for smaller, less expensive homes up to our zoning limit," said John Garrison, vice president.
According to Mr. Hooper, the town planner, "Stich is not making money, but they are surviving, paying their bills and keeping their people employed. And they are opening up the only market that's moving, in the high $120,000's to low $130,000's."
The Kendall Green developer, Richard Benson of Westport, believes that "condominiums must go back to being lower priced than houses, without sacrificing quality." Total monthly charges for buyers will be $913 to $1,041, depending on down payments, which range from 5 percent for an F.H.A. mortgage to 20 percent on mortgages provided by the Union Trust Company, which offers a fixed rate of 7.62 percent with one point on a 30-year mortgage.
"Union Trust has my land loan, so they benefit by making financing available and getting their money back," Mr. Benson said. "No bank would finance construction. I raised $900,000 from friends and family." Proceeds from sales of the first units will be used to build the rest.
"I'm voluntarily paying my investors 12 percent, more than the bank charges," he said. "It's worth it."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); DOVER, DE, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); DOVER, DE, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); HVAC SYSTEMS (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



14 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1943 words

HEADLINE: Sports Authority Draws Criticism On Bond Proposal

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
A PLAN by the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority to ask the state to issue $416 million in bonds to build a convention center in Atlantic City, upgrade Rutgers University's football stadium and pay off millions of dollars of authority debt is drawing harsh criticism from legislators, taxpayer groups and local officials.
Critics see the plan as an attempt to have taxpayers subsidize the 20-year-old authority, which has been suffering from declining revenue at the Meadowlands Racetrack, its chief moneymaking operation. Others say the plan is a move by authority officials to expand the authority's operations. The expansion is unnecessary and ill advised, they say, in light of the state's precarious financial condition and the potential for a $1 billion deficit in next year's budget. 
 And some critics say they are troubled that the plan is probably going to be rushed through the lame-duck Democratic Legislature, a contention that some Democrats do not deny.
Authority officials, on the other hand, say that by refinancing the authority's debt at lower interest rates they will ultimately save as much as $170 million. And by including construction of the convention center and renovation of the Rutgers football stadium in the package, they say, they will create hundreds of jobs and millions of dollars in tax revenue for the state.
They add that any expansion of the authority's responsibilities is a natural extension of its role as a statewide sports and exhibition authority.
The controversy is being played out against the backdrop of cautious political manuevering as Democrats prepare to relinquish control of both houses of the Legislature to Republicans for the first time in 20 years.
"This is really a little scam on the public," said Senator Henry P. McNamara, Republican of Wyckoff. "And in the long run it's going to end up costing taxpayers more money."
Mr. McNamara said the proposal was little more than an attempt by the authority to get the state to use its credit to back the authority at a time when neither the authority nor the state itself was in sound financial condition.
"Everybody says that Giants Stadium and the Brendan Byrne Arena are making money," Mr. McNamara said. "I don't think that's even partially true." Mr. McNamara said that while the stadium and arena might generate enough money to meet their operating expenses, they were actually losing money if debt service on the money borrowed to build them was taken into consideration.
"It's like a guy not paying his home mortgage," Mr. McNamara said. "He can live very comfortably until he has to make his mortgage payments."
Mr. McNamara said the sports authority's only real source of income has been the Meadowlands Racetrack, and that, he said, has been faltering in recent years.
"Over the years the cash cow was the race track," he said. "But that cash cow has been milked for a long time, and racing has kept on dropping and dropping. And now they're getting into a cash-short position." As a result, Mr. McNamara said, the authority as a whole is a losing proposition.
Sports authority officials disagree.
"That's just not true," said John Samerjian, a spokesman for the authority. "Over the years the complex, unlike any other complex in the country, has not only paid for its operations and its debt service but has returned money to the state."
Under an agreement the sports authority has with the state, the authority has been paying about $10 million a year into the state treasury. Mr. Samerjian acknowledged, however, that the payments had been discontinued and that this year the authority would have to dip into maintenance reserves to meet expenses.
Mr. Samerjian said the recent proposal would enable the authority to compensate for falling revenue at the Meadowlands Racetrack. Decreasing attendance, he said, is a problem at race tracks across the country. New Jersey, however, has been hurt more than most.
 
'National Decline in Racing'
 "The national decline in racing over the last 10 years has been accelerated in New Jersey by casino gaming and the expansion of the lottery," Mr. Samerjian said.
Under the proposal, he said, $223 million of the $416 million provided by the state would be used to retire authority bonds that now carry interest rates above 10 percent. They would be replaced with bonds that would carry 7 percent interest, for a saving of as much as $170 million.
In addition to refinancing the debt, the authority would spend about $168 million to build a 510,000-square-foot convention center in Atlantic City. Officials estimate that the convention center project will create 6,000 jobs, generate almost $60 million in state taxes and add almost $200 million a year to the local economy.
The authority proposal also provides $25 million to be used to rebuild the Rutgers football stadium in Piscataway. Improvements would include doubling the existing seating capacity to 45,000 and installing new lights and concession areas.
 
Partnership Termed Essential
 Mr. Samerjian said the partnership between the sports authority and the state was essential in order to float the bonds to raise the money that was needed.
"We don't have the ability to do it by ourselves," he said. "We don't have the equity up front to do it."
Senator John H. Dorsey, Republican of Boonton Township, said the current proposal sounded similar to the authority's 1987 attempt to build a major league baseball stadium in Lyndhurst by floating $185 million worth of state-guaranteed bonds. That attempt, which was placed on the ballot as a referendum, was defeated by voters by a nearly 2-to-1 margin.
"It's kind of like deja vu," Mr. Dorsey said. "Except this year it's not a baseball stadium, it's a convention center in Atlantic City."
Mr. Dorsey said that the sports authority, which he said was having difficulty making ends meet running the sports complex, the Monmouth Park race track and the new aquarium in Camden, should not stretch itself any further by building a convention center.
"These convention centers are not terribly successful financial enterprises," he said.
In fact, Mr. Dorsey said, if the sports authority is losing money, "maybe this is the time to break it up and sell off its parts."
 
State Budget Problems Cited
 He added that with the financial problems the state was now facing, it would be economically and politically foolish to allow the state to underwrite obligations of the sports authority.
"I don't think the people in this state are willing to take on another debt-ridden operation," he said. "I would guarantee you that if this issue were to go on the ballot today, it would be defeated the same as the baseball stadium was defeated in 1987."
Both Mr. Dorsey and Mr. McNamara say they suspect that the proposal, which is not a referendum but must be adopted by the Legislature, will be quickly ushered through the Senate and the Assembly before Democrats lose control in January.
"This will all happen miraculously between now and January 12th," Mr. McNamara said.
 
Public Participation Requested
 Samuel V. Parelli, state chairman of the United Taxpayers of New Jersey in Cedar Grove, agreed that the proposal would most likely be rushed through the Legislature. He said he was angered that such a major decision could be made without public participation.
"Can you imagine the logic of allowing this bond issue to go through a Democrat-controlled Legislature that was just rejected by the people of the state of New Jersey?" Mr. Parelli said. "There has been no proper debate on this. This authority just sits down and says, 'This is what we're going to do,' and they don't have to account to anybody."
Assemblyman Chuck Hardwick, Republican of Westfield, who did not seek re-election this year, took a middle ground in the debate.
"I would be supportive of the state guaranteeing the bonds for the sports authority to refinance at a lower interest rate, but I think that adding Rutgers and the convention center is a mistake," he said.
Mr. Hardwick said that while he had "tremendous respect" for the sports authority chairman, Robert E. Mulcahy 3d, expanding the reach of the authority was Mr. Mulcahy's "self-proclaimed mandate."
"If he's got a mandate to build a football stadium at Rutgers, then why not at every other state school?" Mr. Hardwick said. And with respect to the convention center, he said, "I don't see where they have either the mandate or the expertise to go into the convention center business."
 
Senator Backs Refinancing
 Senator Laurence S. Weiss, Democrat of Woodbridge, who opposed the baseball stadium proposal in 1987, said he would not object to the state's backing the authority in refinancing its debt.
"I've known for a long time that the sports authority is in difficult financial straits," Mr. Weiss said. "I have no problem with the state refinancing these bonds, but I wouldn't want to see money dissipated in other areas and then have the state come along and have to pick up the payment out of general funds."
If he could be shown that the other projects contemplated by the sports authority could be self-sustaining, Mr. Weiss said, then he could support the authority's proposal.
In response to suggestions that the proposal might be pushed through the Legislature before Republicans take control in January, Mr. Weiss said that if immediate action on the proposal was necessary it would be taken.
"If Mr. Mulcahy can make a case for it and prove that this is the time for it to move, it will move," he said. "If it's going to get done and there's a good reason to do it, it's going to get done by Jan. 12. They can call it whatever they want."
Senator Walter Rand, Democrat of Camden, said he was already convinced that the proposed Atlantic City Convention Center would be a major success. His optimism is increased, he said, by the presence of the sports authority.
 
'Great Confidence' in Authority
 "I have to tell you that it makes me feel even more comfortable when I hear that the sports authority is involved," Mr. Rand said. "I have great confidence in that authority."
Mr. Rand said that from what he knew of the proposal, it made sound economic sense as well.
"When you can refinance $223 million worth of bonds which were at 10 percent for 7 percent, I don't have to tell you how right that is as a business decision," he said.
Fred Gruninger, director of athletics at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, is also pleased that the sports authority wants to become involved in rebuilding the university's stadium. The timing coincides nicely with the university's entry into the Big East Football Conference, Mr. Gruninger said, and a more modern stadium with increased seating capacity may make it possible for Rutgers to attract World Cup soccer.
Some local officials, however, are not happy with either the plan or the way they learned of it.
 
'I Was Outraged'
 "I found out about it when I picked up the newspaper," said Lucille Tyson, a Piscataway Township Councilwoman. "I was outraged. As a township official, I was not even contacted by any official from the sports authority to ask how the residents of this town would feel."
Ms. Tyson said spending $25 million on rebuilding the stadium when students at Rutgers were fighting to keep tuition costs affordable was both arrogant and unnecessary.
"Rutgers stadium is never filled, even on homecoming," Ms. Tyson said. "Yet they want to double the capacity when they can't even fill the stadium they've got. They should be using taxpayer dollars to provide better education instead."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Mulcahy 3d, chairman of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, at the Meadowlands in East Rutherford. Authority plans to ask state to issue $416 million in bonds for several projects and to pay off debt. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY, NEW JERSEY; RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (93%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (93%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY, NEW JERSEY; RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (93%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (93%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; ATLANTIC CITY (NJ) UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BONDS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); JOB CREATION (51%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



15 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2006 words

HEADLINE: Catholic Schools Face Financial Strain

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
THE barbed wire on top of the fence is the only sign that this is an inner-city school. Inside, Our Lady of Good Counsel elementary and high schools are models of the Roman Catholic school system, spotless and brightly decorated. More than 1,000 scrubbed, uniformed students listen quietly to teachers who have spent decades instructing the children of immigrants.
The cheerful confidence that a visitor senses among the staff of the school belies the fact that Our Lady of Good Counsel and other Catholic schools across New Jersey are under severe financial stress. 
 The state's Roman Catholic bishops recently released a pastoral letter calling attention to the problems faced by the school system, including a perception that "Catholic schools are in their twilight" because of rapidly rising costs, changing demographics and low salaries, which affect the morale of many in the system. The real nemesis, the bishops said, seems to be a loss of will.
The letter, which was distributed throughout the state, said: "It is clear that Catholic schools are needed more than ever. They are not only graduating academically qualified students, but also young people with values and principles."
The bishops called for greater financial and moral support for the state's 481 parochial schools from Catholic families, government and corporations "as a matter of justice and a matter of principle." They said parishes that did not have schools should help support those that did, through regional agreements. And they said Catholic colleges and universities should do more to help.
"Now is the time for Catholic institutions of higher learning in the United States to return to the parishes in some small measure what they have derived from the religious othodoxy of the elementary and secondary Catholic schools," the letter said. "In this regard, these institutions can provide invaluable assistance in educating future schoolteachers of our state at minimal or greatly reducedcosts."
The problem of low salaries is one that Our Lady of Good Counsel has had to contend with. The basic salary in the elementary school starts at $14,000, which is $1,200 below the guidelines set by the Newark Archdiocese.
Sister Anne William of the Sisters of St. Joseph, the principal of the high school, said the pay scale was "the pits." She said the top salary she could offer, $25,000, was the starting salary at some public and private high schools.
Despite the pay, the school has been able to attract and hold teachers. Margaret Manning has taught second graders for 26 years. Several years ago, her daughter, Phyllis Sierco, joined the faculty to teach the other second-grade class. Mrs. Manning said the salary was not so important because her husband had a job.
"People ask me if I get bored, and I tell them no," she said. "Every day the children are different, the day is different and I'm different."
Elaine Hudak, who attended both the elementary and high school, has taught sixth grade for 20 years and this year took on the added role of vice principal.
"Many parents send their children here because they feel it's safer," she said. "It's an oasis in the neighborhood. I stay because of a love of teaching and the warm environment. The children are affectionate and willing to accept help, and the parents appreciate anything you do for their children."
She said the teaching environment in some nearby public schools was too hectic. "It's so crowded they are literally teaching in the hallways," she said.
Of the 481 Catholic schools in New Jersey, 401 are elementary and 80 secondary. They have an enrollment of 139,581 students: 101,658 in elementary schools and 37,923 in the secondary system.
At Our Lady of Good Counsel, tuition for the 582 elementary school pupils increased this year to $1,500 from $1,300, and tuition for the 439 high school students rose to $2,000 from $1,700. The increases may seem modest, but they were enough to force several families to take their children out of the schools and send them to public schools.
"They had to choose between paying tuition or rent, and they have to pay rent," said Sister Linda Lukiewski, the principal of the elementary school.
When Our Lady of Good Counsel Parish in the city's North Ward near the Belleville border opened its schools more than 60 years ago, the area was "an Irish bastion," Sister Linda said. Over the years, different immigrant groups have arrived, established themselves and moved on to other towns.
 
Built Own Church
 The North Ward's large Italian population built its own church, Immaculate Conception. Most Italian families send their children to a Belleville school, St. Peter's, she said.
For the last 15 years, Our Lady of Good Counsel has taught the children of a large and diverse Hispanic population. First, there were Cubans who moved on to Hudson County and elsewhere. Then the Ecuadorians, Peruvians and Colombians arrived, and today the classes are filled with children whose parents are originally from Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and other parts of the Caribbean.
The school was one of the first to receive no parish subsidy. The church is in debt, and the school is keeping itself afloat with fund-raising activities and tuition, Sister Linda said.
"Most of our families come from the Caribbean, where the church is considered rich and they are poor," she said. "They are accustomed to receiving from the church, not contributing to it."
 
'This Is a Great School'
 Zoraida A. Arocho has four children in the school from the first through the fourth grades. "This is a great school," she said. "If I have to get an extra job to keep my kids here, I'll do it."
Mrs. Arocho, whose husband, Edwin, is a bilingual teacher in the Newark public school system, said, "Discipline is the most important thing in every school, and parents would rather make the sacrifice to send students to parochial schools because the conduct in some public schools is so crazy."
She also said she wanted her children to have a religious upbringing. "God is important in our lives," she said. "The students see that it is important to their parents and their teachers, and that's why the teachers and students are so united."
Even though their public school friends sometimes tease them about their school uniforms, several students said they wouldn't want to transfer to public school.
"Catholic school is so much better," said Maxine Lyle, an eighth-grade student. "My friends in public school have no discipline, no respect for education, and come and go as they please. Here, they teach us respect and things that will help us in the real world when we have to deal with people from different cultures and backgrounds."
 
Teachers Close to Students
 Mario Vaccari, an eighth grader, also talked about a lack of discipline in public schools and said a friend of his was attacked and beaten while he was waiting for a bus after school. "They scarred his face, and security guards standing nearby did nothing," he said.
Mario Escobar, a member of the student council, said teachers were close to the students and always willing to provide extra help, especially to those having trouble with English. "In public schools Spanish students keep to themselves," he said, "but here Spanish and American are mixed and work as one."
Ruth Velastegui arrived from Ecuador two years ago but speaks fluent English. She learned the language in a Catholic school back home. "Catholic schools are for everyone," she said. "You learn a lot of different things, including respect."
The Newark business community, in addition to contributing to a fund that provides grants through the Newark Archdiocese, is also thoughtful about offering direct help, Sister Linda said. "When they're changing their offices, they'll call and ask if we need any furniture," she said. "All we have to do is send a van and pick out what we want."
Sister Anne said a company had recently paid for new carpeting and painting in part of the high school. Both principals said that without the outside help, including the textbooks from the state, they would have to close the schools.
 
$47.6 Million in Aid
 Melvin Wyns, director of school finance for the New Jersey Department of Education, said Catholic schools received $47.6 million in aid for programs, including transportation, nutrition, textbooks, special education and home instruction. To avoid any possible constitutional problems, the money is sent to public schools, which provide the services to parochial school students in their districts.
In July, Gov. Jim Florio signed a bill that would provide $10 million for nursing services in Catholic schools. Sister Anne said the money that Our Lady of Good Counsel would receive for the one nurse who worked in both schools could mean a year without a tuition increase.
In their pastoral letter, to buttress an appeal for more public financial support, the bishops talked of the Catholic school system's growth through the support of generations of immigrants and its service today to Catholic and non-Catholic residents of the inner cities.
"With any analysis at all, it is clear Catholic schools have been the victims of widespread bias," the letter said. "While paying lip service to the merits of Catholic school education, many public officials refuse to give the schools their fair share of funding. All too often the church is called upon to assist in social programs, ecumenical dialogues and even political endeavors, yet requests for reciprocal assistance in securing aid for Catholic school parents and students are consistently rejected."
 
Support for Vouchers
 Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick of Newark, the president of the New Jersey Catholic Conference, the organization of the state's bishops, released the letter, which was distributed to encourage Catholics to pressure their elected officials to find some means, perhaps through tax credits or a voucher system, to support parents who send their children to Catholic schools.
Archbishop McCarrick said he was encouraged by President Bush's proposal for a voucher system that would enable parents to send their children to the schools of their choice. The pastoral letter called the President's plan "a breath of hope for the parents and children of Catholic schools" and urged parents to lobby their legislators to support it.
Some educational leaders, including the heads of the two national teachers' unions -- the National Education Association and the United Federation of Teachers -- oppose the plan, saying it will undermine the public school system.
 
Concern on Public Schools
 Debbie Scott, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Education Association, echoed that concern. "We support the type of choice that would allow parents to send their children to any public school within their districts," she said. "But allowing them to use public schools in other districts or send them to private or parochial schools would abandon the bereft schools and leave their problems to fester.
"There would be less money to take care of the problems in the poorer schools instead of providing the support to help them improve. After years of neglect, some urban schools are struggling to improve their school buildings, and their programs and the President's choice program would create chaos."
Ms. Scott also said the teachers' union could not support an increase in state aid to private schools at a time when money for public education was cut this year below expected levels. "Some schools are still playing catch-up and have a long way to go," she said.
But Archbishop McCarrick said that each year parochial schools gave the state "the great gift of $1.2 billion," the cost of operating the schools for 140,000 students. "In these tough economic times," he said, "I don't think anyone else is walking into the Governor's office and, in effect, laying a check for that amount on his desk."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students at Our Lady of Good Counsel in Newark as they worked on their lessons at the blackboard (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Schoolchildren outside Our Lady of Good Counsel in Newark before the start of classes (pg. 16); Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick of Newark, president of New Jersey Catholic Conference, released letter encouraging Catholics to press elected officials to find ways to aid parents who send their children to Catholic schools (pg. 17) (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (96%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (95%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); FAMILY (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



16 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: County's Builders Fault Rutgers Study On Housing Needs

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

 BODY:
A LITTLE more than a decade ago, the County Board of Legislators released its first comprehensive housing plan, calling for 50,000 units of housing to be built by 1990. Partly because of community resistance and a sluggish economy, only 34,000 units were built, mostly for people with middle income.
Last summer, amid pressure to provide affordable housing for people of lower income and to determine a policy that defined affordable housing need, the Board commissioned the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., to assess Westchester's housing needs. 
 That report, released in August, projected that Westchester would need only 4,826 new affordable housing units before the end of the century.
While legislators said they were delighted with the finding, an organization representing 1,000 builders in the region has emphatically challenged the Rutgers report.
 
'Glaring Deficiencies'
 In a news conference Tuesday, George Frank, executive vice president of the group, the Builders Institute of the Westchester and the Mid-Hudson Region, said the report had "glaring deficiencies." The county has an acute shortage of affordable housing, he said.
"We couldn't figure out how the need for new housing units could be as low as 4,826 when we all know that very little affordable housing has been built in the county in the last 10 years," Mr. Frank said. "The numbers just don't add up."
The builders and their consultant said "severe" methodological errors in the Rutgers study made it "unreliable as a guide to the extent of housing need" in Westchester "or to the extent to which public intervention is needed to meet these needs."
The consultant, Alan Mallach, the Director of Housing and Development for Trenton, N.J., said the Rutgers report was based on a "low-ball methodology," which he said too narrowly defined the housing region, the need for housing and the relationship between need and supply in the region.
 
Regional Approach Recommended
 The Rutgers researchers said the county should spend less for new construction but more for rent subsidies and rehabilitation projects. They also suggested a regional approach to housing needs, with nearby counties like Putnam and Dutchess accepting some responsibility because they are part of the regional commuting pattern.
Based on these assumptions, they said that the region would need 9,975 new affordable housing units in the next decade and that the county's share of responsibility would be about half that, or 4,826.
But Mr. Mallach said this approach does not take into account the 21,469 Bronx residents who commute to Westchester. If adopted everywhere, he said, this approach would mean that "all of New York City's housing needs are to be met within the boundaries of New York City," a conclusion he called "highly tendentious."
Mr. Mallach went on to call the Rutgers report "at best a partial and selective look at the region's housing needs," because it excluded the needs of Westchester's 4,000 homeless people and countless others living in group quarters like boarding houses and looked only at those renters paying more than 50 percent of their income.
George M. Raymond, a Tarrytown builder, who originally suggested that the builders assess the Rutgers study, accused county policymakers of deliberately using limited information to influence the outcome of the study. "There is a clear desire," he said, "to reduce the housing needs in this county to a number that is doable."
County policymakers "have failed to support an aggressive affordable-housing policy by requiring less-restrictive local zoning policies," said Mr. Raymond, who has served as a court-appointed monitor of housing policies in New Jersey in the aftermath of the Mount Laurel decisions, which held that municipalities have an affirmative obligation to produce their fair share of affordable housing.
 
'Doable Numbers'
 Timothy S. Carey, who heads the Board's Committee on Community Affairs and Housing, which sanctioned the Rutgers report and who attended the builders' news conference, defended the Rutgers study. The legislators were not deliberately seeking lower and "doable numbers," Mr. Carey said, and to say so is "totally unfair and inappropriate." He also said the Rutgers group's methodolgy had been upheld in similar studies in New Jersey.
Although Mr. Mallach agreed that the Rutgers methodology had been upheld, he said it had been criticized by a number of fair-housing groups in New Jersey and that its conclusions had been accepted only because they can be periodically reassessed within the context of a statewide affordable housing policy. New York, Mr. Mallach said, does not have a statewide policy.
Last week, the Rutgers researchers responded with a five-page defense of their own, which said that most of Mr. Wallach's comments were of "little validity."
The researchers defended their exclusion of the Bronx as part of the housing region because they said 10 times as many Bronx residents work in Manhattan as in Westchester. They also said their study was not intended to include the county's homeless population.
 
Hearings Will Be Held
 "The Westchester study does not deny that there are additional households in the region with housing-cost burdens," the researchers said.
For his part, Mr. Carey cautioned that the Board of Legislators had not adopted a revised housing policy and that hearings would have to be held before they do.
"What we are seeing here is an interest group, the Builders Institute, acting in their selfish interest," Mr. Carey added. "They don't believe the numbers reached by Rutgers, and they want to justify building more housing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY; CENTER FOR URBAN POLICY RESEARCH HOUSING & DEVELOPMENT BANK (53%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY; CENTER FOR URBAN POLICY RESEARCH RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITIES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



17 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 3; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: PBS;
'Much More Than TV'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his article "Public TV Takes Its Nose Out of the Air" [Nov. 3], Mark Schapiro chose to ignore the very reason that, for nearly four decades, public TV has been -- and continues to be -- among the most valued cultural and educational institutions in America. Contributions are at an all-time high, and support from Congress, educational institutions and other sources are strong. The reason is simple: public TV is much more than TV. It is a unique, education-based institution supported voluntarily by the money and sweat equity of millions of Americans in their local communities. 
 Mr. Schapiro points out that a number of stations have suffered cutbacks in state financing. Fair enough. Public-TV stations are part of the local economy and don't enjoy or expect insulation from a state or national economic crunch. But with limited resources, they do wonders, providing some of the best general-audience programs in the world and educational programming to two-thirds of America's schools, colleges and universities.
Public TV's funding mix (individuals, government, corporations, foundations, educational institutions and other sources), which Mr. Schapiro criticizes as creating "a spiral in which programs are produced to satisfy these sectors of the audience," does quite the opposite. Beholden to no single funding source, it gives public TV an editorial independence that, year after year, allows it to air some of television's most hard-hitting news and public-affairs programs.
 
BRUCE L. CHRISTENSEN
President, PBS
Alexandria, Va.
Mr. Schapiro replies: Mr. Christensen and I are in agreement that PBS produces some of the finest programming on television. Series like "Frontline," "The AIDS Quarterly" and "P.O.V." come to mind, while the services it provides to schools undoubtedly make a significant contribution to education.
However, my aim was not to promote individual programs but to illustrate the political and financial pressures on the system. The point is not that PBS is pushing a particular "political agenda," but that its hybrid status as a public-TV system without a steady source of independent financing means that a strong pull is exerted on programming by large donors who hold the purse strings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (93%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; PUBLIC TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (96%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (93%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); 

PERSON: CHRISTENSEN, BRUCE; SCHAPIRO, MARK

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



18 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: MAKING A DIFFERENCE;
Questions of Perception

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
C. Boyden Gray, the White House counsel, may have some doubts about the efficacy of affirmative action. But Joshua I. Smith does not. "Affirmative action and set-aside programs work," said the chairman of the Maxima Corporation, a computer systems and management information company that is one of the country's largest black-owned businesses.
Mr. Smith may be in possession of more information than Mr. Gray: he has spent two years as the unpaid head of the Federal Commission on Minority Business Development, a panel established by Congress to evaluate business programs for minority groups. 
 Mr. Smith has traveled the country listening to stories from the front lines of minority capitalism. The commission will hold its last formal hearing in mid-December and then spend six months writing a final report. Mr. Smith declined to say what the panel's conclusions would be but did say that the Small Business Administration may need more funding to handle the many responsibilities that Congress has given it.
"Overwhelmingly, there is a very negative perception of minorities in business," said Mr. Smith. "Even in Federal law, minority businesses have been referred to as 'disadvantaged businesses.' That negative perception has to be turned around."
Mr. Smith, 50, brought to the commission his experience of building Maxima, a 13-year-old concern in Rockville, Md., by knitting together Federal procurement contracts. Like many entrepreneurs, he is a proselytizer for economic self-determination. He started Maxima after working as a consultant: "I thought if I was so smart, why was I so poor and making other people rich."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (84%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: MAXIMA CORP (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); MARYLAND, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); 

PERSON: SMITH, JOSHUA I

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



19 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: MAKING A DIFFERENCE;
Russia's Wild West

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
When Igor Klioutchnikov, an economist living in what was then known as Leningrad, began telling friends and colleagues the city needed a stock market, everyone insisted he was crazy. That was three years ago, when the Soviet Union was in a dystopian holding pattern. Last May, the less-than-crazy Russian rang the opening bell on the brand new St. Petersburg Stock Exchange, of which he is now executive director and chairman. "Step by step, people realized we need a market system," Mr. Klioutchnikov said during a recent trip to the United States. "You can't have a market system without an exchange."
Exchanges of various sorts, mostly dealing in commodities, have emerged in geometric profusion as free-market fever advances through the Soviet Union and the former Eastern bloc, but St. Petersburg -- its pre-revolutionary name was restored this fall -- has a tradition to live up to. Before the Bolshevik Revolution, "St. Petersburg was the financial capital of Russia," Mr. Klioutchnikov said, sounding tired after spending several intense days on Wall Street studying computer trading systems. 
 He concedes that the St. Petersburg exchange is at a primitive stage. "It's more like a little bazaar now, not like an American-style stock exchange," said Mr. Klioutchnikov, who is 42. But it has grown to 500 traders from a handful at the beginning. And it has added a small number of stocks in private companies, commercial banks and financial institutions to the bulk of its business -- contracts for future delivery of commodities.
The exchange is advised by the Soviet-American Securities Law Working Group, a New York-based team that includes experts in securities regulation and disclosure law as well as the Soviet legal system.
Securities legislation is pending in the Soviet Union. The Saslaw group is recommending an American-style system of self-regulation and oversight, but it may take years to put it into place. "We have to be realistic," said Richard Bernard, a lawyer at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy who works with Saslaw. "It's the Wild West over there now."
Despite what appears to be enormous economic chaos as the Soviet Union goes the way of the ice on the River Neva in early spring, Mr. Klioutchnikov is optimistic. "The old bureaucratic system is disintegrating and we are in a process of reintegration," he said, adding, "There is a lot of uncertainty, but also opportunities."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Igor Klioutchnikov visiting the New York Stock Exchange, (William E. Sauro/The New Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: ST PETERSBURG STOCK EXCHANGE MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST PETERSBURG STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BONDS (71%); LEGISLATION (68%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (68%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (63%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: KLIOUTCHNIKOV, IGOR; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY; KLIOUTCHNIKOV, IGOR (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



20 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: 'Re-Parent' the Young Workers? Not on Your Life

 BODY:
In an article on the Forum page on Nov. 17, Morris R. Shechtman wrote that many workers in their 20's and 30's are still adolescents emotionally and are less productive than the workers of other generations.
He said managers should be prepared to deal with their young workers in the same way they treat their teen-age sons and daughters at home. By using a strategy of "re-parenting," he said, companies may be able to increase self-absorbed workers' productivity to acceptable levels within two or three years instead of the six or seven years that might be required otherwise. 
 Here are some of the letters received in response to Mr. Shechtman's advice.

 
 
Dated Practices


To the Editor:
Mr. Shechtman's premise that a significant number of working people in their 20's and 30's are "adolescents emotionally" and should be "re-parented" is exactly the kind of thinking that has helped to create the relatively dismal competitive posture of many United States businesses today.
The advice Mr. Shechtman dispenses -- do not tax employees' attention spans, do not give out more than one task at a time and do not accept any exceptions to the rules -- reeks of dated management practices that have proved highly ineffective for today's fiercely competitive business environment. Following are examples:
* The principles espoused by the scientific-management pioneer Frederick Taylor, who recommended keeping tasks very simple and straightforward and giving simple directions so there was no room for human error. Workers' reaction to this management philosophy led to the rise and spread of the American labor union movement.
* The paternalistic, we-know-what's-best-for-the-kids style of management. The response by employees and children to this style is "Well, if Mom and Dad know what's best for us, then we will wait for them to tell us what to do." This treatment by management yields a dependent, lethargic, stagnant work force.
* The "command and control" theory of management, which says the managers are the experts and will make the rules and create the directives for everyone else. This philosophy creates status barriers, low commitment and a lack of motivation to perform.
In my 13 years as a management consultant, I have encountered many emotionally immature employees in their 20's and 30's. But I have also worked with just as many, if not more, employees in their 40's, 50's and 60's who are emotionally crippled because of their insatiable need for power, control, status and stability. Stereotyping segments of the work force puts people in boxes, which are very difficult to get out of.
Given the strenuous demands, conflicting priorities and scarcity of resources that managers have to deal with today, re-parenting is not a legitimate job responsibility. Managers who are expected to watch the bottom line, delight the customer, facilitate technological breakthroughs and serve as quality gurus do not have the time or patience to develop the emotional acumen of the work force.
Building a competitive, flexible, talented work force can be accomplished only by treating all employees, regardless of age, like adults. In an adult work world, business must do the following things:
* Insure the right fit between employee and job content. If an employee does not have the skill and ability to perform the job, train him or her. If the employee is not trainable, someone made a mistake in hiring.
* Set realistically high performance expectations for everyone and ratchet up those expectations as performance improves.
* Allow all employees freedom to make decisions about the shape, content and context of their work.
* Encourage employees to "grow the job." As market needs shift and change, so should employees and their job.
If employees of any age are treated like children, they will respond and perform like children. If employees are treated as mature rational adults, they will respond and perform like mature rational adults.
 
DIANE RIGGAN
Norwalk, Conn., Nov. 19
 
 
The author is president of Riggan & Associates, a management-consulting firm.
 
 
Insulting and Demeaning
To the Editor:
Mr. Shechtman suggests that to increase productivity among young workers, managers should use "strategies not unlike those that you use at home with your teen-agers." Such a recommendation is insulting and demeaning to young workers and will only worsen a productivity problem that many managers unknowingly cause in the first place.
Today's young workers are collectively more educated than the young employees of previous generations, and they consequently have more confidence in their abilities and greater career expectations.
Unfortunately, many managers waste this young talent and ambition by providing recent college graduates with unchallenging and unstimulating tasks that require doing, but not thinking. This produces boredom and dissatisfaction, which cause the productivity and motivation problems that Mr. Shechtman erroneously attributes to "adolescent traits like self-absorption, lack of commitment and short attention spans."
If you want to improve the productivity of your young employees, treat them as you would your more senior personnel. Establish challenging, yet attainable goals. Provide young workers with responsibility and the commensurate authority required to meet objectives. And create a supportive atmosphere that encourages learning and initiative.
Indeed, young workers will rise above their expected performance levels if their work is interesting and the career prospects are encouraging. That is the key to productivity; re-parenting is not.
 
LAURENCE PLAWSKY
Plainview, L.I., Nov. 20
 
 
 
Lowering Expectations

 
To the Editor:
As a recent college graduate who has held several temporary jobs in the past six months, I realize I am expected to be mature and responsible on the job, no matter what it is.
Companies do not lower their expectations or make allowances because of my "prolonged adolescence." Instead, I am given projects, brief instructions and advice as to their completion and then turned loose. Often the feedback is minimal or nonexistent, as completing the projects is fulfilling my obligation as an employee.
Admittedly, my living away from home with partial parental support has forced me to grow up quickly and lose the "work as play" attitude pervasive among many people my age. Pavement pounding and interviewing taught me that employers want employees who are willing to work, learn and carry out assigned tasks with little or no feedback, not employees who need or want baby-sitting.
I believe Mr. Shechtman's suggestions on how to "raise" young workers will only encourage and prolong adolescent behavior and attitudes among young staff. By lowering their expectations of young workers, companies are effectively lowering the expectations they have for themselves.
If a project requires three people three days to complete, it should take no longer. Employers should not break up meetings and projects for the benefit of their young staff but should instead expect their young employees to adapt to their management styles, not vice versa.
The strategies Mr. Shechtman suggests will cause rifts within the office, as older employees may resent supervising and babying young employees who require constant feedback. Older employees who have been with a company for more than 10 years often do not wish to slow productivity so they can explain tasks and provide feedback.
Young employees should realize that much of what is done in offices is thankless and goes unrecognized unless done badly or incorrectly. If feedback or advice is needed, the employee should be encouraged to seek answers either through his or her own research or by asking a senior employee.
I do not expect to be "re-parented" in my job. Instead, I expect to be treated as a young adult who wishes to grow in a company and will fulfill expected duties.
 
GILLIAN E. COX
Boston, Nov. 17
 
 
 
Behavioral Triage

 
To the Editor:
Mr. Shechtman addresses one of the most important aspects of our steady economic decline: the prolonging of adolescence and its damaging consequences in work and business.
But the strategies given for dealing with this problem are pathetic. In effect, Mr. Shechtman suggests that corporations must act as a sort of day-care center, patiently coaxing productivity out of people who despite their advanced education and degrees are little more than spoiled children.
This is not a cure and it does not address the cultural source of this problem: the "entertainmentization" of America. What good does it do to perform behavioral triage on workers of all levels when television and movies continue to promote irresponsible adolescence as an ideal state of existence?
As Neil Postman pointed out in "Amusing Ourselves to Death," the power of entertainment has infected many aspects of American life. Its most damaging aspect is on the American character: our addiction to image over substance, our susceptibility to slogans over reasoning, our simple-minded pursuit and adulation of shallow "heroes."
Until those who wield the economic power in America come to realize that they have a greater responsibility for the larger society than for improving the performance of their companies' stocks, they will find their resources incapable of stemming the tide of immature workers, ethically blind workers, unproductive workers, illiterate workers, substance-dependent workers -- and all of those whose characters are currently being crafted by the massive power of the amusement media and who are the potential workers of the next century.
 
MICHAEL CANUEL
Brooklyn, Nov. 17

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PARENTING (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (89%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: RIGGAN, DIANE; PLAWSKY, LAURENCE; COX, GILLIAN E; CANUEL, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



21 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 68; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Nostalgia With a Look That's Now

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE SCHIRO

 BODY:
Anna Sui's inspiration may come from a Balenciaga suit in an old magazine, from a Barbie doll's traveling costume, from a photograph of Lady Diana Cooper working in her garden or from a length of vintage fabric. Then her imagination soars.
The Balenciaga suit ends up with raffia fringe and ruffled shorts. Barbie's straw hat and cork-soled sandals become accessories for striped denim sportswear, along with Lady Diana's gardening gloves and a mammoth bumblebee pin. The vintage fabric, a bold print from the 1960's, leads to a revival of palazzo pants. 
 "I like using nostalgic elements and adding things to bring them into this decade," the designer said. "What I love is to capture an old feeling and have it still look good."
 
Youth and Wit
 Although Ms. Sui has been running her own business for 11 years, interpreting the latest fashions for the junior market, she made a breakthrough in April with her first formal show, at which some of the world's top models cavorted in her youthful clothes and witty accessories. Fashion magazines featured her clothes; department stores put them in the windows. Her spring show last month was equally successful.
"Doing fashion shows has taken me to another level," Ms. Sui said, sitting in her New York showroom surrounded by samples of her spring clothing and accessories. "Last year I did $1.75 million. This year I'm doing much better than that. The way the economy is now, I'm getting a lot of attention because of my prices."
She keeps prices down by using less expensive fabrics like denim and pique and by having the clothes made in New York, where she can keep tabs on the factories and correct mistakes before they become costly.
Her fall collection sold out quickly at Bloomingdale's, said Kalman Ruttenstein, the store's vice president for fashion direction, who put her black chiffon dresses in the window with Harley-Davidson motorcycles in November. "She probably offers more fashion for the price than anyone else at that price range," Mr. Ruttenstein said, "and the customer responded."
While most of the new generation of designers is selling jackets for $400 or $500, sometimes much more, Ms. Sui's jackets are $200 to $300. "Part of the fun of my clothing is that it's not so precious," she said. "You can enjoy yourself wearing them because you don't have to worry about damaging a $2,000 jacket. What's fun about fashion to me is that it's always changing, and what I try to do is offer a new thing that's affordable."
Her instinct for capturing the fashion feeling of the moment is apparent in the spring collection, which includes tweed suits and gingham baby-doll dresses, long slit skirts and lacy, lingerie-like lace party dresses.
"She touches on all the newest international runway looks and adds her own touch," Mr. Ruttenstein said.
Bruce Binder, group vice president and fashion director of Macy's Northeast, plans to move Anna Sui's clothes from the junior department to New Signatures with the work of other hot young designers. "She has tremendous creativity, but she's willing to work with a store and make changes for us," he said. "Her accessories are such fun we'll be housing them together with her clothes."
Accessories are one way she puts her signature on her styles. Tweeds, gingham checks and 1960's prints are shown with matching hats, bags and shoes. The hats are made for her by James Coviello, the bags by Jill Stuart. Eric Beamon makes beaded jewelry, which Ms. Sui describes as part hippie and part David Webb, in colors to go with the clothes.
"I love accessories and working with accessory designers," Ms. Sui said. "I collect jewelry and bags and hats, even though I never wear hats."
Her knack for putting together a total look comes from the years she spent as a stylist for the fashion photographer Steven Meisel, who has been a friend since their days as students at the Parsons School of Design. She left her native Detroit to study design in New York but left school after two years to divide her time between designing for sportswear manufacturers and working for Mr. Meisel. As his stylist she met star models like Linda Evangelista, Christy Turlington and Naomi Campbell, who helped to attract other models for her shows.
"Last November I took time off and did styling with Madonna and Lady Miss Kier," she said. "For many years I couldn't decide between styling and designing. It's kind of a youthful fantasy that you can do everything, but you have to learn the business you're in. Basically, the most important thing, I've learned, is to ship the clothes on time with good quality."

GRAPHIC: Photos of fashions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); FABRICS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (76%); FASHION SHOWS (76%); RETAILERS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); MOTORCYCLES (61%); 

PERSON: SUI, ANNA; SCHIRO, ANNE-MARIE ANNA SUI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



22 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 71; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Camille R. Campbell Plans to Marry

 BODY:
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Robert Campbell of Southampton, L.I., have announced the engagement of their daughter, Camille Rogers Campbell, to Count Joachim von Arnim, a son of Count Adolph-Heinrich von Arnim-Boitzenburg of Schlossborn, Germany, and Countess Maria von Arnim of Munich, Germany.
Miss Campbell is a fund raiser in the public affairs department of the New York Zoological Society. She graduated from Denison University and was a member of the New York Junior Assembly. Her father, who is retired, was president of the Personal Economics Group, a financial services company, in New York. 
 Count von Arnim is a vice president of Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt. He graduated from the St. Gall Graduate School of Business in St. Gall, Switzerland, and received an M.B.A. from Babson College.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Camille Campbell and Count Joachim von Arnim

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); SWITZERLAND (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (71%); 

CITY: MUNICH, GERMANY (56%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%); NYZS/THE WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%); NYZS/THE WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); SWITZERLAND (67%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (71%); MUNICH, GERMANY (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); FUNDRAISING (70%); 

PERSON: CAMPBELL, CAMILLE ROGERS; ARNIM, JOACHIM VON

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



23 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Who the Rich Are and What They Should Pay

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Gideon Fountain, criticizing the slogan "tax the rich" (letter, Nov. 17), asks what income level defines rich, "so we can all laugh." 
 I'll give him an answer few will dispute: $200,000 a year. For 1989, 790,000 taxpayers -- three-tenths of 1 percent of the population -- reported to the Internal Revenue Service adjusted gross income of $200,000 or more, a total of $409 billion. They were charged Federal income tax of $96 billion, a 24.1 percent rate.
In 1979, 10 years earlier, there were just 94,000 of these rich people, charged an effective rate of 45.3 percent on their adjusted gross income. The effective rate on their incomes was thus cut more than 20 percent.
Putting a surtax of 20 percent of adjusted gross income on these people would now yield $82 billion. A more modest surtax, on those with incomes between $100,000 and $200,000, would bring the total gain to more than $100 billion.
Much of the extra income would come from the super-rich -- those with incomes of more than a million dollars a year. Their number increased nearly 100 times, from 642 in 1970 to 3,601 in 1979 to 61,987 in 1989. In 1989 their adjusted gross income was $159 billion, on which they paid $39 billion, or 24.7 percent. In 1979, the millionaires paid 50.2 percent on their adjusted gross income.
To restore the earlier rate would mean a 25 percent surtax on these people, yielding $40 billion more.
There's no doubt that halving the taxes of the rich and super-rich had much to do with the extreme widening of income gaps during the last decade and, arguably, with the financial excesses that contributed to our economic difficulties. Not to speak of the increase in the tax burden on average citizens to more than one-third of their incomes.
A modest tax reform, restoring the rates of 1979 -- before the big cuts on high incomes in the following years -- would bring in the indicated $82 billion, which would finance a great part of the much-needed outlays for housing, health, education, environment and infrastructure, while permitting much-need tax relief for those with middle and low incomes, whose tax burden has risen substantially during these same 10 years.
For Mr. Fountain's state, Connecticut, and for New York, such surtaxes on wealthy taxpayers, whether levied nationally and distributed through Federal aid to the states or levied in part as state taxes, would end the state budget crises.
 
VICTOR PERLO
Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., Nov. 20, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME; INCOME TAX; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX REFORM (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); 

PERSON: PERLO, VICTOR

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



24 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Small Business's Borrowing Lament

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Wanted: An Investment-Led Recovery" (Forum, Nov. 10) suggests ways to use tax law changes to encourage investment. A real problem for small businesses, which do a great deal of the investing for growth in this country, is their inability to take long-term advantage of today's low interest rates. 
 Commercial banks do most of the lending to small business, lending for a maximum of three to five years at variable rates tied to the prime. What goes up comes down and what comes down goes up. We all know that. If we borrow today at a relatively low rate to improve our businesses, and the Federal Reserve decides to move rates back up, all small-business borrowers will be in the soup.
The Federal Reserve should encourage commercial banks to give small businesses longer-term loans at fixed rates with some relationship between the bank's total small-business loans and its reserves. Large corporations can borrow via long-term bonds at fixed rates. Small businesses should be able to do the same. If they could, many small-business people probably would move quickly to borrow, lock in low interest rates -- and buy.
 
DAVID KRASHES
West Boylston, Mass. Nov. 18
 
The author is president of Massachusetts Materials Research Inc., a group of independent metallurgical testing laboratories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: INC RESEARCH INC (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; SMALL BUSINESS SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); WRITERS (73%); BONDS (73%); TEST LABORATORIES (69%); 

PERSON: KRASHES, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



25 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: November Surprise;
Bush Takes Hits From All Sides, Including His Side

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Maybe it was the series of open challenges to the White House from the ranks of House Republicans. Maybe it was the panicky pleas from Republican political professionals to do something, anything, about the economy. Maybe it was the signed op-ed pieces and the on-the-record quotes assailing White House political operations -- not from Democrats, but from Republicans.
Whatever the moment, something fundamental changed in Washington last month. President Bush, who just eight months ago commanded the approval of 9 out of 10 Americans, suddenly seemed incapable of keeping his own party in line. The stricken economy, and the President's fumbling response to it, exposed many of the strains in the Republican Party. The coalition that drove politics in the 1980's seemed exhausted and frayed. 
 It is too soon to tell whether the Democrats, sapped by a decade out of power, will be able to capitalize on the Republicans' troubles. But the New York Times/CBS News Poll released last week showed that Mr. Bush was paying a high political price, with his approval rating plummeting 16 points in a single month, to 51 percent. Intensifying the nightmare for many conservatives and old Reaganites was a simple historical comparison: His economic stewardship was given the lowest approval rating, 25 percent, since Jimmy Carter's rating in the era of stagflation.
A recession is always dangerous for the party in power, but this one may be particularly so. It was, after all, the promise of a new, growth-oriented economics, fueled by tax cuts, that helped oust Mr. Carter in 1980 and create the Republican dominance that followed. "Economics was the glue that held the party together," said a Republican strategist. "It was the one thing that yuppies and evangelicals could agree on."
The collapse of Communism, which was another unifying theme for Republicans, made the economics issue all the more important. So does the abortion issue. As Supreme Court action to limit constitutional protection for abortion rights appears increasingly possible, many Baby Boomers have grown uncomfortable with the Republican Party's strict anti-abortion stand. Without a strong appeal to their economic interests, how long will these voters stay with the Republican coalition?
Given such high stakes, many Republicans have been dismayed at Mr. Bush's nothing-too-hasty approach to the recession. They watched in horror this fall as the Democrats began leading the call for tax cuts while the White House preached caution and promised to outline an economic growth package in the State of the Union Message -- in January. Many analysts say there are sound reasons for not rushing ahead with tax cuts, but the Administration seemed unable to make the case that its stance was a matter of good policy, not simply confusion or insensitivity.
Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, a leading conservative in the House, said his personal nightmare in recent weeks was that the President would veto a major tax cut package on fiscal grounds. "Then you've got the transformation of the two parties," Mr. Weber said. "Then the Democrats become the party of prosperity and we become the party of austerity."
The President climbed onto the tax cut bandwagon before Congress left town last week, with the two tax-writing committees scheduling hearings for December. But Mr. Bush's move came only after weeks of conflicting signals from the White House. And it left both conservative and centrist Republicans worried that the President has yet to find a direction on domestic policy. This is a flaw that can be easily overlooked during an international crisis, like the Persian Gulf War, but is glaring during a recession -- and terrifying to his fellow Republicans as the election year approaches.
Some 80 House Republicans sent Mr. Bush an open letter last week urging him to "end the current impasse" and "intra-Cabinet turf battles" over domestic policy and make Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, a conservative favorite, his domestic policy czar. While praising Mr. Bush's international leadership, the Republicans wrote, "On the domestic scene the American people see a stagnant economy and an uncertain future."
In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times, Representative Dick Armey, Republican of Texas, laid much of the blame for White House drift at the feet of John H. Sununu, the chief of staff, and Richard G. Darman, the budget director -- a view that is widely held in the party. "This situation is serious," Mr. Armey said in an interview last week. "The poll results we've seen haven't surprised me a bit."
Don Sipple, a consultant who works for many middle-of-the-road Republicans, says that he senses a nervousness among them as well. Health care and the economy are the issues uppermost in many statewide races today, Mr. Sipple said. "They need some air support from the President right now on those issues," he said.
 
He's No Reagan>
 A veteran Republican strategist, who spoke on condition that he not be identified, predicted that the White House would right itself. "Once he has a campaign team in place, the politics will end up driving the policy," he said. "They will tell him that certain governmental actions are necessary if he's going to be re-elected."
But there is a pervasive uneasiness in the party, a sense that Mr. Bush, while he has reached heights of approval that Mr. Reagan never did, nevertheless lacks Mr. Reagan's steady and irreducible base of support.
 
An Aging Coalition
 There is a sense, too, that the Republican coalition is not what it was in 1981. It is aging, and showing the signs of age that the Democrats once showed when they were in power. There are demanding constituent groups, straddling leaders, ideological wings that believe the leadership is betraying the cause.
Already, some conservatives are gleefully rallying round Patrick J. Buchanan, the commentator and former aide in the Nixon and Reagan Administrations who is considering a primary challenge to Mr. Bush.
Governing coalitions, of course, can hold on for many years after the first cracks appear. And it is not at all clear that the Democrats will present a credible and appealing candidate who can build on the Republicans' vulnerabilities. The New York Times/CBS News poll found, for the first time, that voters are evenly divided between Mr. Bush and some unnamed generic Democrat. But the real Democratic nominee will likely be a novice to Presidential politics, and the Republicans could always revert to the argument that served them well in 1988: that the opponent is simply too untested to entrust with the Oval Office. A Republican poll taker, Neil Newhouse, argued, "Voters are saying they want some changes. When push comes to shove, they'll turn to Bush to make those changes because they trust him. Bush runs better against any known Democrat than he does against himself."
Even with their current problems, few dispute the Republicans' ability to run a masterful Presidential campaign. Still, strategy and tactics can only go so far.
"I worry that they will say inside, 'Hey, we were 17 points behind Dukakis and we jerked it out,' " Mr. Sipple said. "I think that may be over-simplistic, that they're going to win because they're going to just damage the other guy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Bush (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); APPROVALS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); ABORTION (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); RELIGION (50%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TONER, ROBIN GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



26 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
In a Changed Pacific, U.S. Forces Remain

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

 BODY:

Why They're Still There
Half a century after Pearl Harbor, and more than 45 years after the end of the war that brought United States forces into the Pacific in large numbers for the first time, the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force remain a diminished but still visible presence from Japan to the South Pacific, and from Singapore to Hawaii.
Although Americans talk regularly of bringing home the troops from across the Atlantic, they make this demand less often for Asia, whose relative power is only growing and from which an increasing number of emigrants continue to arrive in America. 
 If the Soviet Union has faded as a shadow over Europe, it has all but disappeared in the Asia beyond Russia's borders. Barely five years ago, Mikhail S. Gorbachev went to the Pacific port of Vladivostok to urge the nations of the East to look on Moscow as a partner in development. Who around the Pacific rim remembers that now? Instead, the nations of East and Southeast Asia, where Tokyo's World War II Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere is still etched in memory, see a steadily resurgent Japan strengthening its economic power in the region. They wonder whether China will be drawn into a race for influence in those vast areas around its borders. And unpredictable India could also join the ranks of the powerful.
The United States could not rest secure, American officials argue, if another power came to dominate the Pacific, because in Asia there are no alliances on which to rely, as Washington relies on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The United States is on its own.
The duties of the Pacific Command have evolved subtly over the years, from a warmaking and then peacekeeping operation to one that, in its own words, tries to strengthen "political, economic and security cooperation" among the nations of the Pacific rim and the Indian Ocean.
The United States stormed into the Pacific in the 1940's as a combatant. But now its presence has taken on a more neutral coloring, and if some nations in the region, like Singapore or Indonesia, seem less than happy to see the American profile reduced, it is because it serves as a useful balance or deterrent against the growth of other potential powers.
 
 
WHERE THEY ARE

 
There were about 383,000 military men and women in the United States Pacific Command as of March 1991, about 17 percent of all Americans on active duty. The command, headquartered in Hawaii and stretching to the Indian Ocean, covers half the earth's surface, an area of more than 100 million square miles, touching 40 countries and
eight American territories.
 
Except as noted below, most of the Pacific Fleet's 237 ships are based in Seattle, San Francisco, San Diego or Long Beach, Calif., including most aircraft carrier groups and ballistic missile submarines. However, Subic Bay in the Philippines is a major Pacific installation, with 130 ships docking there each year for maintenance and resupply.
 
The roughly 300 fighter, ground attack and reconnaissance planes noted below in the Pacific Air Forces are supplemented by far larger fighter, bomber, airlift, communications and other forces in the continental United States and Alaska.
 
The General Accounting Office estimated in 1989 that the United States was spending $16.8 billion annually on Pacific theater forces.
 
Hawaii: Pacific Command HQ at Pearl Harbor.
50,000 personnel.
41 ships, including cruisers, destroyers and submarines.
15th Air Base Wing at Hickam and Wheeler Air Force Bases.
Marine bases at Camp Smith and Kaneohe.
 
 
Japan: 60,000 personnel.
One carrier group.
The 5th Air Force at Yokota Air Base, Misawa Air Base and Kadena Air Base on Okinawa.
Marine Corps Camp Butler on Okinawa.
 
South Korea: 40,000 personnel.
The 7th Air Force at Osan Air Base, other units at Kunsan Air Base and three Korean Air Force bases.
Two major Army combat units, the 2d Infantry Division in Tongduchon and the Combined Field Army,
Republic of Korea/United States in Uijongbu.
 
The Philippines: 6,000 personnel.
Subic Bay Naval Base.
Clark Air Force Base was handed over to the Philippine
Government on Tuesday.
 
Guam: 7,200 personnel, plus about 6,400 transferring from Clark with the 13th Air Force to Andersen Air Force Base.
5 submarine tenders and support ships.
 
Aboard ship: 115,000 personnel, including those in Indian Ocean.
Carrier groups include Navy and Marine air wings
and Marine combat units.
 
Other: 2,500 personnel.
Includes communications stations in Australia,
an airfield on Diego Garcia,
weapons stockpiles in Thailand and posts on Midway,
the Marshall Islands, Palau and the Johnston Atoll.
 

GRAPHIC: Map: "Legacy of war, 50 years later," map of Pacific region showing location and number of U.S. military forces. (Source: U.S. Pacific Command; General Accounting Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); SINGAPORE (93%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); EARTH (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); SINGAPORE (93%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); HAWAII, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); EARTH (72%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS WORLD WAR II (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



27 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: THE WOLRD;
Iraq: A Clear and Continuing Danger

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Nine months after the remarkably well-executed Desert Storm operation, and six months after it became clear that the allies had imposed on themselves an incomplete victory, a new debate is rising in Washington. As an unforeseen consequence of President Bush's decision last spring to leave Iraq's future to the Iraqis, rather than press then and there for the removal of Saddam Hussein, Iraq has become a time bomb both for the Bush Administration and for the 18 million people living in increasingly desperate conditions under Mr. Hussein's rule.
The problem is made worse for Mr. Bush by the fact that this time bomb is likely to be ticking all through next year's election campaign. If the President needed any evidence, it came in a bipartisan letter signed by 17 senators last week putting the President on notice that "it is increasingly clear that Saddam hopes to use the looming humanitarian crisis in his campaign to end the international sanctions against his outlaw regime." 
 The President's response to the senators' call for swift but unspecified action was to repeat that his Administration is dedicated to the overthrow of Mr. Hussein, a still formidable task and one for which Mr. Bush still lacks a concrete plan.
When he asked his National Security Council aides to give him some military options, the council consulted the Pentagon, where the intial reaction was: There is no military option that guarantees the overthrow of Mr. Hussein short of a major deployment back to the Persian Gulf, with allied support and international backing for a full-scale assault on Baghdad. In other words, Desert Storm II.
But Washington is buzzing with other ideas, most of them involving Iraq's minority of 3.5 million Kurds, whose divided leadership is lurching toward a decision on whether it would be willing to launch a civil war against Mr. Hussein if it was granted a measure of allied backing.
But such help has pointedly not been offered so far; the reluctance of the Pentagon and the State Department to back a civil war militarily stems from a strong belief that the Kurds -- as they showed during their brief uprising last March -- would need a great deal of allied support if they were to be effective against the Iraqi Army. Such backing would be all the more problematical since Turkey, which faces a Kurdish rebellion of its own, would certainly oppose arming Kurds or providing rear area bases for a Kurdish-based civil war against Baghdad.
Some Iraqi opposition figures suggest smaller steps. They want Washington to ground Iraq's helicopter fleet and then provide inducements for the Iraqi military to defect in large numbers into Kurdistan, where a provisional army and government could be built to march back to Baghdad and throw out Mr. Hussein. One inducement could simply be food, since regular army units in northern Iraq, unlike Mr. Hussein's Republican Guard, are poorly fed and outfitted.
Another idea, this one from Saudi Arabia, would be for that country and the United States to jointly provide covert financing for small anti-armor missiles with which the Kurds could defend themselves against Soviet helicopter gunships and tanks. One problem, of course, is that any missile that could shoot down an Iraqi helicopter could also shoot down a Turkish warplane.
Gen. Colin L. Powell, Mr. Bush's chief military adviser, has consistently voiced the deepest reservations about the quagmire a Kurdish adventure could turn into, and he has tried to keep the White House focused on what he sees as the fundamental problem: Mr. Hussein's power lies in Baghdad and to remove him would require sending American military force in large numbers. And even if that were done, who would pay for it?
Though the Kurdish option has been thoroughly discussed and repeatedly rejected by Mr. Bush's principal national security aides, the deteriorating conditions of hunger, deprivation and terror in Iraq are only expected to intensify during the 1992 Presidential campaign. Heading into the first postwar winter, there can be little doubt that Mr. Hussein is upping the stakes in his struggle against the American-led coalition.
 
A Scent of Jonestown?
 In Baghdad, where this reporter spent 10 weeks in several visits over the last year, the defiant and anti-American rhetoric that Mr. Hussein re-introduced this fall has engendered a political scent of Jonestown, where defiance became its own end. The late Jim Jones, like Mr. Hussein, boasted that his people would commit any sacrifice -- in the Jonestown case, revolutionary suicide -- to demonstrate that their faith in their leader was truly righteous and absolute.
Mr. Hussein's record shows that he can be expected to continue fighting with breathtaking tenacity for his own survival. If his last weapon is the sacrifice of millions of Iraqis to the horrors of starvation and disease until the Western alliance is shocked into saying "Enough!" and relaxing sanctions, then Mr. Hussein will not hesitate to reach for this weapon, many analysts believe.
In large measure, he has already done so.
During a round of interviews in Baghdad last month with Mr. Hussein's cabinet ministers, each sounded the theme of defiance. Iraqis would eat dates and grass rather than "surrender" to the allies' dictates, Trade Minister Mohammed Mehdi Saleh and Oil Minister Osama A. R. al-Hiti said. With chilling determination, the Health Minister, Abdul Salam M. Saaid, explained that he was cutting off programs in which international relief agencies were distributing food directly to Iraqis because this was giving too much comfort to the consciences of the "good people of Europe and the United States." In other words, the minister wanted more pain, not less; in doing so, he showed that the Iraqi leadership is unwilling to play by Western rules of politics and war.
To date, the somewhat cynical consensus in the State Department has held that the American people would be relatively indifferent to Iraqi suffering as long as Mr. Hussein was clearly to blame for it. This consensus, however, appears to be breaking up as the election season draws nearer. The prospect of television images of starvation in Iraq while Mr. Hussein's resilience in Baghdad allows the Democrats to tag Mr. Bush with a major foreign policy failure has sobered Republican strategists. For some, the possibility of mass starvation in Iraq presents a haunting reminiscence of Pol Pot's purges in Cambodia.
Sensing the debate, the Kurds have already approached Democratic Presidential candidates seeking to find advocates for their cause.
In the end, Mr. Hussein's postwar strategy, geared as it is to insuring his survival at all cost, may present the Bush Administration with some frightful questions: How long can the United States stand by and watch millions of Iraqis slowly starve because Mr. Hussein's Government refuses to submit itself to the intrusive United Nations regime for selling oil to pay reparations? Can a leader such as Mr. Hussein, defeated on the battlefield but not conquered or forced to surrender, be allowed to re-emerge and threaten his neighbors with whatever instruments of vengeance he can lay his hands on?
If either question is answered in the negative, toppling Mr. Hussein once and for all becomes a matter of methodology and Mr. Bush may be impelled toward choices that, up to now, have seemed too unattractive to consider.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraqui child suffering from malnutrition at a Baghdad hospital. American officials expect President Saddam Hussein to step up efforts to exploit such scenes this winter. (Les Stone/Sygma) (pg. 1); Kurdish girl carrying firewood at a refugee camp in Sayed Sadiq, Iraq, near the Iranian border, where Kurds have fled because of Iraqi attacks. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



28 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Delay on North Korea Leaves Nasty Choices

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
For more than a decade American intelligence experts scrutinized their satellite photographs as North Korea, piece by painstaking piece, assembled a giant nuclear complex in a river valley just outside a small town called Yongbyon. From the start, there was little doubt what the pictures meant: Kim Il Sung, North Korea's aging "Great Leader," was pursuing a dream to build the bomb, a dream that dates to the Korean War.
But only now, when Mr. Kim is frightfully close to putting together a weapon -- three years at the outside, say the experts, maybe much sooner -- is the Bush Administration declaring that a nuclear-armed North Korea would be "the most serious threat to peace and stability" in Asia. With great fanfare Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d recently urged a reluctant China to join Japan and the Soviet Union in a diplomatic effort to isolate North Korea until it abandons its nuclear ambitions, no easy task when dealing with what is already one of the world's most isolated nations. 
 And there is the lingering, unstated threat that if North Korea refuses to relent, Mr. Kim's project might be ended with a quick, pre-emptive military strike. On a trip to South Korea 10 days ago, the Secretary of Defense, Dick Cheney, ordered a sudden halt to American troop withdrawals from South Korea, saying it would "be unwise to proceed with major U.S. force reductions."
But Mr. Cheney and his staff have yet to answer perhaps the most embarrassing question: What took Washington so long?
"The U.S. Government has been smelling smoke in North Korea for almost a decade, but did nothing until the fire began licking at the door," Gary Milhollin, the director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, which lobbies for controls on nuclear proliferation, told a Senate panel last week. Now, Mr. Milhollin said, the Administration has to choose between economic sanctions that he believes will have little impact and a military strike that seems virtually unthinkable.
"Only because our Government failed to take effective action for so long are we forced to choose between watching a country cross the line to A-bomb making and starting a war to stop it," said Mr. Milhollin, who suspects that North Korea may soon add plutonium to the catalogue of weaponry it sells to other countries. "These are not decent alternatives."
Indeed, the problem is compounded by the fact that the North Korean project may now be so far along that it is unstoppable without a considerable loss of face for the 79-year-old Mr. Kim. A giant plutonium reprocessing plant is about to kick into action; some believe it already has at low levels. So even if Mr. Kim accedes to international inspections, something on which he has stalled since signing the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1985, it will be too late to know with any certainty whether enough plutonium has already been produced for the North to assemble crude nuclear weapons.
In part, Washington's dilemma is one of the unforeseen consequences of the unravelling of the Communist Bloc. When the Soviets propped up North Korea they kept Mr. Kim in check. Now they have no leverage. Everyone assumes that China, too, doesn't like the idea of a nuclear North, but it has warned Mr. Baker against putting too much pressure on Mr. Kim.
American officials offer a variety of reasons for not acting sooner, but the most compelling seems to be that, until international inspectors uncovered Iraq's huge bomb project, they did not realize how little one learns from satellite photographs. That is why Mr. Cheney is now demanding the dismantling of crucial facilities in North Korea, rather than simply more inspections. "There is no new evidence," a top Defense Department official said during a visit to Seoul, "just new interpretations, based on what we learned in the gulf."
But the gulf experience may have limited applications. South Korean and American officials sometimes acknowledge that they do not think a pre-emptive strike against Yongbyon is a real alternative, and that the North Koreans know it.
 
The Limits of Geography
 Washington and Seoul may rattle the saber -- early next year, as part of annual exercises, they are bringing in Patriot missile batteries, F-117 Stealth fighters and crack airborne troops -- but geography offers a strong argument for a different strategy. Seoul sits only 35 miles from the Demilitarized Zone that separates North and South, and the rest of South Korea is dotted with nuclear power plants that would also be easy targets in any retaliatory attack by North Korea's Scud missiles. Though South Korea is getting ready to buy anti-missile systems, officials say they would probably not have a chance to work over such short distances.
The unpalatability of military alternatives leaves the carrot and stick of economics, where the best hope lies in Pyongyang's dreams of aid from Japan. "We think the North Koreans recognize that isolation is not in their interest, but it is hard to know," said a very senior Japanese diplomat. "If we can find a way for them to abandon the program without losing face, and to gain diplomatically, I feel there is the possibility they would opt for that."
Already, Washington and Seoul have given Mr. Kim some room for maneuver. In September, President Bush announced the withdrawal of tactical land and shipboard nuclear weapons around the world. In October, American officials made it clear that they would go beyond that in South Korea, taking out all nuclear weapons. That made Seoul nervous, but President Roh Tae Woo was persuaded to also promise that the South would never develop nuclear weapons or even a reprocessing plant.
Some day early next year, maybe during President Bush's visit in January, South Korea is expected to announce that it is now "nuclear free." Meanwhile the Administration is considering some kind of inspection system that would verify that no nuclear weapons are stored at its bases. The only step it will not take -- one that Pyongyang periodically demands -- is the removal of South Korea from the American nuclear umbrella.
Last week, the moves showed signs of having had some minimal effect. Pyongyang issued a statement suggesting that it might allow nuclear inspection under a series of vague conditions. "The pressure may be getting to them," said a senior Japanese official. "Or it could be a ploy for more time."
Exactly how much time Mr. Kim needs has suddenly become a matter of urgent concern to Washington. Like everything about North Korea, the answer only raises more questions. "I could put six analysts in a room and get seven opinions," a top American military commander lamented. "The fact is, we know very little."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Concern over North Korea's nuclear program has led the United States to freeze troop withdrawals from South Korea. In Seoul last month, President Roh Tae Woo of South Korea, left, bestowed medals on Gen. Colin L. Powell and Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; RESEARCH NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); KOREAN WAR (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); INSPECTIONS (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E DICK CHENEY (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



29 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin to Finance Soviet Payroll to Avert Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 30

 BODY:
Faced with the imminent bankruptcy of the Soviet Government, President Boris N. Yeltsin of the Russian republic agreed today to finance the Soviet payroll for the immediate future and to guarantee sufficient credits to meet the minimal needs of the Kremlin.
The 11th-hour agreement was reached at a meeting of Mr. Yeltsin and his top economic advisers with the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and the head of the Soviet State Bank. 
Only a day earlier, the Russian Parliament blocked an emergency request by the central Government to issue another 92 billion rubles, and the governor of the State Bank, Viktor Gerashchenko, said he had only enough money left to carry on two or three days more.
 
Real Control Shifts
 Today's agreement marked a recognition by Mr. Yeltsin that however keen his desire to halt the growing and threatening flood of rubles, it was simply not possible to choke off an all-union government that still formally sustains a large portion of the national economy, ranging from the military to the scientific and academic establishments.
At the same time, Mr. Yeltsin's action underscores that real control over Mr. Gorbachev and his Government has effectively shifted to the Russian government, which has signaled its intention to barrel ahead with radical economic change with or without the rest of the former union.
[American experts and officials said that the accelerating takeover of economic authority by the Russian republic might slow the rising economic chaos, and that it would not disrupt Western food credits and debt assistance. Page 20.]
Mr. Yeltsin confirmed today that part of his new assertiveness was a response to the possibility that the Ukraine would go its own way after a referendum on Sunday, in which Ukrainian voters are expected to show a strong preference for independence.
 
Pile of Worthless Rubles
 Speaking briefly with reporters today after his meeting with Mr. Gorbachev, Mr. Yeltsin reiterated that he could not visualize any form of new political union without the Ukraine, especially if the Ukraine issued its own currency. Experts agree that this would prompt similar moves by other republics, leaving Russia buried under a giant pile of worthless rubles.
"If the Ukraine issues its own money, the whole money mass falls on Russia," Mr. Yeltsin said. "What is the union without the Ukraine?"
Mr. Gorbachev has also strongly urged the Ukraine not to abandon the union. The Interfax news agency reported that he had discussed the subject with President Bush by telephone today, warning him that to push the Ukraine toward independence "would bring matters to a catastrophe for the union, for the Ukraine itself and for Russia, Europe and the world."
The White House confirmed that the conversation had taken place but would provide no details. Mr. Bush described the United States Government's plan to develop relations with the Ukraine, Russia and other sovereign republics, but not in such a way that would harm moves toward a future union, Interfax reported.
The exchange grew out of reports that Mr. Bush said on Wednesday that he was prepared to "expeditiously" recognize Ukrainian independence if that was what the republic chose. The announcement dismayed the Soviet Government, which has been fighting a losing battle to maintain some semblance of union.
The agreement between Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Gorbachev today was the latest manifestation of the rapidly waning authority of the central Government, the growing recognition of the Ukraine's determination to become fully independent of Moscow, and the Russian government's adoption of stern economic measures under a new team of managers.
Though today's decision was largely forced by circumstances, namely the crisis in Soviet finances, it also confirmed Mr. Yeltsin's effective control over the entire rump of the central Government.
Though Mr. Yeltsin may not have planned it to happen quite this way, the entire thrust of his recent policies has been to assume all the main functions and obligations that had not been specifically delegated to the central Government, including the State Bank.
 
Money for Diplomats
 As of Sunday, the critical Ministry of Finance comes under Russian jurisdiction, and Mr. Yeltsin has announced his intention to close down most other central ministries. In recent days, Mr. Yeltsin has also agreed to finance Soviet diplomatic missions, which were threatened by the money crunch.
Officials said today's agreement was also intended to prod other republics into footing their share of the central Government's bills. Earlier this month, all republics except Russia had agreed to allow the State Bank issue more money, apparently satisfied to let the Kremlin continue printing rubles to pay salaries inside the republics.
But Mr. Yeltsin's plans for a radical economic overhaul depend heavily on bringing the ruble under control, in part by allowing the ruble's foreign-exchange rate to be set by the market and in part by drastically cutting the glut of rubles printed to meet the Kremlin's growing budget deficit.
The announcement of today's agreement gave few details. It said Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Gorbachev had agreed to coordinate their budgetary policies closely and to meet the Kremlin's fourth-quarter expenditures "on a consolidated basis." Government officials said this essentially meant that all-union bills would be paid out of the Russian budget, though Russia would still expect republics to assume a share of the all-union debt.
 
'Substantial Cuts'
 The presidents further agreed to make "substantial cuts in spending." They said the measures would allow a "maximum weakening of the destabilizing influences of the budget deficit of 1991 and to lay the foundation for budget policies for 1992."
"If these conditions are met," the statement said, "Russia will be willing to shoulder responsibility for guaranteeing U.S.S.R. State Bank credits granted to cover the coordinated minimal expenditure in the fourth quarter of 1991. The amount of credits granted by the State Bank will be taken into account when dividing the internal debt between sovereign states."
Though the agreement formally covered only the last quarter of 1991, of which only a month remains, the arrangement was widely viewed as a dress rehearsal for 1992.
Speaking briefly to reporters after the meeting, Mr. Yeltsin said the Government's budget would be substantially reduced. But he added that salaries would not be cut and that Russia itself had taken on responsibility for the full payroll of military, scientific, cultural and budget organizations.
While the agreement resolved the immediate budgetary crisis, it also demonstrated Mr. Yeltsin's recognition that in seizing control over much of the central Government, he was also assuming the enormous burden of a highly militarized and largely state-controlled economy.
Much of the debate over Russia's economic overhauls has centered on the impact of deep cuts in huge institutions like the military-industrial complex, in which 60 percent of the Russian republic's industry is involved.
Backing away from the Soviet Government's bankruptcy today, Mr. Yeltsin showed that he was not prepared for the far-reaching social dislocations that would occur if the Government stopped functioning.
In another indication of the political risk inherent in overhauling the economy, Mr. Yeltsin's vice president, Aleksandr Rutskoi, today openly broke with the Russian economic program, and especially with the "program for the destruction of the military-industrial complex." Mr. Rutskoi, a hero of the resistance to the failed August coup, said he would resign if Mr. Yeltsin continued with the program.
 
Foreign-Exchange Rate
 Mr. Yeltsin's new government, however, seemed determined to continue with the campaign to bring the glut of rubles under control. Starting next week, Russian banks will lift restrictions on the exchange rate for the ruble, currently set at 47 to the dollar for tourists changing their money. Set free, the rate is likely to rise rapidly to more than 100 to the dollar.
The Russian Information Agency reported that Russian banks would stop paying out any rubles other than salaries as of Monday, and that salaries would be frozen. The measure was intended to put a lid on the number of rubles in circulation.
The agency also quoted a "reliable source" as saying that prices in Moscow would be freed on Dec. 15 and in the rest of the republic on Jan. 1. The report could not be confirmed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the bankruptcy of the Soviet Government imminent, President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia has agreed to finance the all-union payroll. A guard locks the gate of the State Bank in Moscow, which announced Friday that it had funds left to carry on for two or three days. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBID (LSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UKRAINE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: STATE BANK FOR FOREIGN ECONOMIC AFFAIRS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UKRAINE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CURRENCY; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TRENDS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REFERENDUMS (63%); GOVERNORS (56%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; SCHMEMANN, SERGE GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



30 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-23

YELTSIN BAILS OUT THE KREMLIN
Faced with the imminent bankruptcy of the Soviet Government, President Boris N. Yeltsin of the Russian republic agreed to provide credits and finance the central payroll. 1
 
American experts and officials were encouraged by Russia's move. 20
 
The American Communist Party got Kremlin funds until last year. 17
 
UKRAINE SCALES DOWN ARMY PLAN
On the eve of the Ukraine's referendum to declare independence from the Soviet Union, officials of the republic have significantly scaled down their plans to create a powerful Ukrainian army. 1
 
The Bush Administration plans to name an envoy to the Ukraine. 19
 
DEBATING SOUTH AFRICA'S FUTURE
Negotiations to dismantle white minority rule were hailed as imminent as representatives of 20 political organizations concluded preparations for a formal convention to debate the future of South Africa. 3
 
PARTY REJECTS AQUINO CANDIDATE
Rejecting the candidate backed by President Corazon C. Aquino, her political coalition nominated the speaker of the Philippine Parliament to succeed her. 3
 
PROMOTING WEST BANK BUSINESS
Israel has begun a policy intended to allow more free enterprise and business opportunity in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 7
 
Repeal of an anti-Israeli U.N. action has been tied to peace talks. 6
 
A ONCE-POOR VILLAGE PROSPERS
The village of Xiongjia has attained affluence in the terms of its part of China: two bicycles in every courtyard and a dog in every pot. 15
 
The United States detailed how much it was penalizing Kenya. 10
 
France is gambling that it will gain from a strong united Europe. 16
 
Yugoslavia's violence pervades civilian life in Belgrade. 21
 
 
National 24-38

ARE CROSS BURNINGS FREE SPEECH?
The Supreme Court will hear arguments this week on whether hate-motivated activity is protected by the Constitution. 1
 
WHETHER TO ACT, AND WHEN
Despite President Bush's decision to cling to a go-slow strategy for economic revival, White House advisers are increasingly concerned about the risks -- to the economy as well as to 1992 campaign prospects -- of simply waiting for the recovery to take wing. 28
 
A KINDER, GENTLER PRESIDENT
White House Memo: Anxious about polls that show a severe erosion of middle-income voters' support for the President, his associates are searching for ways to demonstrate greater sensitivity. 28
 
Duke will run in several Presidential primaries, an adviser said. 31
 
SHUTTLE MISSION IS CUT SHORT
After one of three navigational units aboard Atlantis failed, NASA decided to shorten the spacecraft's mission and attempt a landing today. The episode marked only the second time in the history of the shuttle program that equipment failure forced an early return. 24
 
A PALM BEACH DRAMA
Eight months after their fateful evening together, William K. Smith and the woman who accuses him of rape are about to meet again, as a Florida jury begins hearing evidence in the case. 24
 
TOLL MOUNTS IN HIGHWAY PILEUP
Seventeen people were killed and perhaps 150 injured along Interstate 5 in central California as a dust storm blinded drivers and caused one of the worst road accidents in the nation's history. 34
 
A battle is developing over the nation's wildlife refuges. 38
 
Washington Journal: In the capital, a much-polluted waterway. 24
 
 
Regional 41-56

GRIM CITY, WARY REGION

The ties that link New York City and the region around it are weakening, a survey by The New York Times of residents of the five boroughs and 14 surrounding counties finds. 1
 
POSING TOUGH QUESTIONS
At Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J., staff members are preparing to talk about death. A new Federal regulation requires that all new patients be asked if they would like a "living will." 1
 
AT HOME WITH RELIGION
A growing number of Christians and Jews are organizing informal home worship sessions as alternatives to church or synagogue. 1
 
REMEMBER THE NEEDIEST
Against a backdrop of hard times and high caseloads for charities, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund begins its annual appeal. 44
 
Obituaries 52
 
Raymond Madiford Peardon Donaghy, a neurosurgeon
 
Campus Life 59-64
 
Fashion 68-69
 
Life Style 65
 
Pastimes 76-77
 
Weddings 70-74

GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 100 vehicles crashedon a California highway. 34 (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SERBIA (79%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FRANCE (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (50%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SERBIA (79%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FRANCE (76%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); EVIDENCE (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (66%); SPACECRAFT (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SPACE EXPLORATION (63%); SPACE SHUTTLE (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (56%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



31 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2712 words

HEADLINE: Region Around New York Sees Ties to City Faltering

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
The cultural and economic links that bind New York City and the sprawling region around it are weakening, and as the two areas grow apart, residents of the city are far more pessimistic about the future of their community than are their neighbors in New Jersey, Connecticut, Long Island and Westchester and Rockland counties, the latest New York Times Poll shows.
Indeed, so attenuated have the ties between the city and the region become that half of all regional residents say events in New York City have "hardly any impact" at all on their lives. 
 While once the region was dotted with bedroom communities that depended on the city for jobs, entertainment and services, they have gradually been evolving into increasingly self-sufficient enclaves. The new poll shows residents of the outlying region are twice as likely to work in their own county than in the city.
 
Spreading Urbanization
 As towns and cities around the region have matured and turned their back on New York City, they have, ironically, taken on many of the same characteristics that residents deplore in the city, and now many of the same problems and fears that affect the city afflict them too, the poll shows.
More than half the residents surveyed outside the city say, for example, that drugs are now a significant problem in their community, and a quarter say that AIDS is.
But even as the rest of the region begins to resemble the city more, the gulf between the way city dwellers and others view where they live, their neighbors and the services they receive remains enormous. Perhaps the best indication of this disparity is their differing visions of the future.
In response to the question "What's your long-range view for your community?" the majority of residents of the suburban counties say they believe their community will be the same or a better place to live 10 to 15 years from now.
 
Pessimism in the City
 In contrast, six out of 10 New York City residents say they expect their community to be a worse place to live early in the next century. This is the highest level of pessimism about the city's future that has been registered since poll-takers began asking this question in 1973.
In a striking illustration of a frame of mind, even the water tastes better to suburban residents than city dwellers -- despite the fact they drink the same water.
The New York Times Poll was conducted Nov. 2 to Nov. 12 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
As part of the wide-ranging poll, one of the most comprehensive surveys of regional attitudes conducted over the last decade, 2,550 adults were interviewed, roughly one-third of them from the city, and the rest from a 14-county area including Long Island, Westchester and Rockland Counties in New York State, Fairfield County in Connecticut, and nine New Jersey counties ranging as far south as Monmouth.
Margot Chase, a hospital collections officer who lives in the Bronx, was one of those surveyed who said in a follow-up interview that she thought the city would be a worse place to live five years from now. "Every year things get worse," she said. Housing and education, she said, were deteriorating, and the problem of drugs growing.
"To be in New York City," she concluded, "is the pits."
The poll shows economic worries to be pervasive throughout the city and its suburbs. Almost 4 in 10 city residents and 3 in 10 suburbanites say their financial situation has gotten worse over the last year.
 
Mistrust of Government
 There is something in the results of the poll to cause alarm to public officials in virtually every pocket of the New York City region.
For example, while 46 percent of New York City residents said local government corruption was a systemic problem, so did 39 percent of Long Islanders and 41 percent of the residents of northern New Jersey.
But New York City officials, it seems, have by far the most to be worried about. Not only were most city residents concerned about the future of the city and dissatisfied with its services, but also more than a third said their image of the city was "a bad one." In the surrounding counties, negative feelings toward the city were even higher; more than four in 10 said their image of the city was bad.
One suburbanite surveyed who said she had a negative image of the city is Connie Parris, who lived in Manhattan in the early 1980's and has since moved to Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
"I've seen a lot of changes in the city in the last 10 years," Ms. Parris, a mother of three, said. "I see more crime, more homelessness. When I lived in the city, then I liked it. But I wouldn't want to move back there now."
 
Urbanization
Changing Face Of the Region
 The suburbs John Cheever wrote about, where the men took commuter trains to New York City and returned in time for cocktails, and a night out meant dinner and a Broadway show, exist more in the imagination than in reality.
These days, people who live in the New York City suburbs are more apt to work in their home county than in the city, and four in 10 see no need to go to Manhattan to attend the theater; they can do so, they say, closer to home.
According to the poll, 58 percent of the chief wage earners in the region outside New York City work inside their home county, while only 22 percent work in New York City. Thirty-five percent of families in those counties have a second wage earner, and of those, seven in 10 are employed in their home county.
 
Attractions Outside the City
 Leisure time is also being spent closer to home. Fifty-one percent of the residents of the suburban counties said they spent a day or an evening in New York City less frequently now than they did five years ago, a trend that may have been heightened by the recession. Only 14 percent said they visited the city more often than they did five years ago, and 32 percent said they visited it the same amount.
Twenty-six percent said that outside of work, they had not visited the city at all in the last year. Even shopping in the city appears to have lost its luster: city residents are more likely to go shopping outside the five boroughs than their counterparts are to go shopping in the city.
 
Fewer Ties
A World Apart Just Miles Away
 Spending less time in the city, the residents of the ring counties also feel less connection to its politics and its problems. Fifty-one percent of those surveyed said that events in the city have "hardly any" impact on their lives today, up from 39 percent who said the same thing in 1978.
The strongest interest in the city is found in Westchester and Rockland Counties. In Fairfield County, Conn., 59 percent of those surveyed said events in the city had "hardly any impact" on their lives, while in northern New Jersey that figure was 52 percent and on Long Island it was 51 percent. But in the Westchester-Rockland area it was a statistically significant 41 percent.
 
Fear of Crime
 Robyn Mittelsdorf, a housewife from Westhampton, L.I., was one of those surveyed who said she had not been to the city in the last year, and that events there had hardly any impact on her life.
In a follow-up interview, Mrs. Mittelsdorf, who was born in the city and used to take her four children to Radio City Music Hall, pointed to congestion and crime as reasons she no longer visited the city. "You just don't know what's going to happen there," she said.
 
Crime and Drugs
Suburban Towns, Urban Problems
 Residents of the suburban counties may increasingly avoid New York City, but they cannot avoid many of its problems: with the increasing urbanization of the region has come a sizeable dose of urban-style problems, the poll shows.
Thirty-seven percent of the respondents living outside the the city said that drugs were a "serious problem" in their community, and an additional 17 percent said it was "one of the worst" problems their community faces. In New York City, 32 percent of those surveyed called drugs a "serious problem" in their community and 32 percent more called it "one of the worst."
Twenty-nine percent of all suburban residents also called AIDS either a serious problem or one of the worst in their community, compared with 33 percent of New York City residents.
 
Worries in the Suburbs
 Increasingly worried about crime, 35 percent of all suburbanites say they worry a lot about people breaking into their homes, up from 29 percent in 1978.
One of those suburban residents who say they worry about break-ins, Martin Outlaw of Norwalk, Conn., said his neighborhood had grown increasingly dangerous over the years.
"I don't want my wife going out at night, even to get a pack of cigarettes," Mr. Outlaw, a corporate chauffeur, said. "I have to get out of bed and get them for her. This town is a nuts town at night. I just turn it over to them at night and stay in the house."
 
Concern Over Autos
 Yet people living outside New York City still feel far more secure in their neighborhoods than do city dwellers. Asked how much confidence they have in being able to walk in their neighborhoods without being bothered, 51 percent of all suburban residents said "a lot," compared with 22 percent of New York City residents.
Also, adults outside and inside the city still worry about very different dangers to their children.
Asked which problems affected more teen-agers in their area -- violent crime or automobile accidents -- 12 percent of suburban residents said violent crime, while 73 percent said car accidents. In New York City, 44 percent said violent crime, while 33 percent said automobiles. Adults outside New York City say alcohol is a bigger problem for teen-agers than drugs, while the reverse was true in the city.
 
Attitudes
Half Empty Vs. Half Full
 Perhaps the most telling differences between the city and its suburbs lie not in the problems, but in the levels of confidence. Even as the suburbs begin to experience many of the ills of urban areas, their residents remain upbeat about their communities, their schools and their futures. Residents of the city, in contrast, appear to be suffering from a kind of malaise that makes Jimmy Carter's warning seem understated.
The disparity in outlook between suburbanites and city dwellers is revealed in matters both mundane and profound. Asked to assess their roads, for example, 60 percent of suburbanites described the condition of the streets in their community as good or better, while only 24 percent of the residents of the city say that.
Seventy-three percent of the suburban residents rated their police protection as good or better, compared with 35 percent of city residents. And 45 percent of suburbanites said they had "a lot of confidence" that their children could get a good education in public school, while only 12 percent of city residents had such confidence.
 
Schools Faulted
 Joyce Billups of Queens was one of those who said she had no confidence in the city schools. Ms. Billups, a registered nurse, said her two older children had gone to public school, but that she would try to send the youngest, who is a year old, to private school.
"The money does not funnel into the schools," she said. "And very few teachers are devoted to teaching."
The disparity in attitudes shows up even where the services are virtually the same in the city and the suburbs. New York City and Westchester County, for example, share the same water system. But while 61 percent of the residents of Westchester say their water quality is good or better, only 50 percent of city resident say the same thing.
 
The Outlook
Divergent Views About the Future
 It is in their vision of their neighbors and their future, though, that city and suburban residents reveal their keenest differences.
Asked how much confidence they had that their neighbors would help them in an emergency, 60 percent of all suburbanites said "a lot." Only 32 percent of all city dwellers expressed the same faith.
Asked about their long-range outlook for their community, a majority of suburban residents predicted an upbeat or at least stable future. Twenty-six percent said they believed their community would be a better place to live 10 or 15 years from now and 39 percent said it would be the same, while 30 percent said it would be worse.
 
Confidence Dropping
 Among city dwellers, in contrast, the future was largely viewed with trepidation. Only 19 percent of all city residents expect that New York City will be a better place to live at the turn of the millennium, while 17 percent said it would be the same and 58 percent expect it to be worse.
The level of confidence about the city reflected in these figures is the lowest that has been recorded since the Times began asking New York City residents about their outlook in 1973. In that year, 38 percent said the city would be a better place to live in 10 or 15 years, 26 percent said it would be the same and 32 percent said it would be worse.
 
'The Place Is a Mess'
 One of those who said they expected the city to become a worse place to live, Charles Bissett of Borough Park, Brooklyn, said he believed many of the city's problems to be "insurmountable."
"The place is a mess," Mr. Bissett, a hospital administrator, said in a follow-up interview. "You see it everywhere. And I don't see the will or the way to really clean it up."
Mr. Bissett said that he thought that he would eventually have to move out of the city. "It's a shame, because I love New York," he said. "I just feel that a lot of things here are getting out of control."
 
 
 
HOW THE REGIONAL POLL WAS CONDUCTED
 The latest New York Times Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Nov. 2 to 12 with 2,550 adults, including 824 in the five boroughs of New York City and 1,726 in 14 counties surrounding the city.
Polling of the surrounding counties was organized with samples in each of four areas: 442 in Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island, 429 in Westchester and Rockland Counties north of the city; 436 in Fairfield County in Connecticut; and 419 in the nine northern New Jersey counties of Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Middlesex, Monmouth, Morris, Passaic, Somerset, and Union.
The 14 counties surrounding the city are sometimes referred to as suburban even though some contain their own urban areas.
The new city and suburban poll was part of a broader project in which 3,212 adults were interviewed across the entire New York metropolitan region, including an outlying, more rural belt adjacent to the suburban counties in New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey. The project was designed so as to be comparable to a similar survey conducted by The Times in 1978.
The sample of telephone numbers called was generated by a computer, based on random digit dialing techniques. It was drawn by Marketing Systems Group of Philadelphia.
Within each household one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the poll.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into each residence. Within each major geographical area results have been adjusted for variations relating to race, sex, and age. Then each of the samples was weighted on the basis of population size to reflect an accurate balance between geographical areas within the metropolitan region.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than a few percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adults in the respective populations. For instance, the potential sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points both for New York City and for the surrounding 14-county area.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, when individual areas in the region are examined separately, potential sampling error is plus or minus five percentage points each for Long Island, for the Westchester-Rockland area, for Fairfield County in Connecticut, and for the nine-county area in northern New Jersey.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Shows breakdown of opinion of adults who were asked what their community would be like in 10 15 years (pg. 1); "The Impact of New York City," shows breakdown of opinions of residents of the region surrounding New York City who were asked how much impact events in the city had on their daily lives; "Confidence and Security," shows breakdown of opinions of residents of the region who were asked, "How much confidence do you have ..." in the city and the region; "Rating Community Services," shows breakdown of opinions of residents of the region who were asked to evaluate services in their community; "The Outlook for the Future," shows breakdown of opinions of residents of the region surrounding who were asked in a 1978 Times Poll and again last month about their plans for the future. (Based on a New York Times Poll of 824 adult residents of the five boroughs of New York City, and 1,726 adult residents of 14 counties immediately surrounding the city in New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut.) (pg. 48)
 
Map of New York City and surronding regions. (pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; CULTURE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); TRENDS (78%); URBANIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



32 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

White House Is Growing Fearful About the Economy
For both political and economic reasons, the Administration is gradually deciding that it cannot wait for the weak recovery to take wing and is admitting that tax cuts and other measures to encourage growth must be taken sooner or later. Page 28.
 
Shuttle Is Ordered Down
 The space agency cut short Atlantis's mission when one of its three navigational units failed. It is to land in California today, instead of Florida on Wednesday. Page 24.
 
His Word, and Hers
 Eight months after their fateful evening together, William K. Smith and his accuser are about to meet again as a jury begins hearing evidence in their rape case. Page 24.
 
Duke Entering the Race
 David Duke plans to run in several Republican Presidential primaries, an adviser said. Page 30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); SEX OFFENSES (67%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: DAVID DUKE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



33 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: In Brazil, Pessimism Starts to Keep Pace With Inflation Rate

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 30

 BODY:
Night after night, crowds troop across the marble and parquet floors of Brazil's former presidential palace here to watch a re-enactment of the suicide of President Getulio Vargas in 1954.
Written for history buffs, the gloomy play unexpectedly hit a wide vein of pessimism in modern Brazil. An initial run of three days stretched into three months as Brazilians watched their current President, Fernando Collor de Mello, struggle in vain with soaring inflation and a rebellious Congress. 
 Brazil's pessimism is all the sharper because of high hopes raised by Mr. Collor's election two years ago. Young, athletic and elegant, Mr. Collor made Brazilians dream again with promises to make the country a first-world power through free-market policies leading to low inflation, high growth and unfettered foreign investment.
But today, as Argentina, Chile, Mexico and Venezuela tame their inflation and resume economic growth, Brazil stands out as the major exception to Latin America's economic renewal.
Brazil's powerful Congress, controlled by opposition parties, shows little interest in approving tax bills and constitutional amendments intended to bridge a yawning, inflationary gap between Government receipts and Government obligations.
 
Rio Shops Are Looted
 Meanwhile, Brazilians watch their currency lose 1 percent of its value daily. Brazil will finish 1991 as Latin America's only nation with a rising, triple-digit annual inflation rate.
In Mr. Collor's first year in power, Brazilians' salaries shrank by 20 percent, a Government agency announced this month. Angry over the economic squeeze, street vendors and unemployed youths protested and looted shops last week in downtown Rio.
"Everyone took part in the economic miracle, now it's very difficult to accept a lower standard of living," Anna Veronica Mautner, a Sao Paulo psychoanalyst, said, referring to the golden years in the 1970's when the economy grew by an average of 9 percent a year. "Now we are in a denial phase. I deny my refrigerators are broken. I deny that I used to eat out every Sunday and now only once every three weeks."
Denial also takes place when Brazilian newspapers ignore a free-trade pact emerging between Mexico and the United States and ignore the recent successful visit to Washington by President Carlos Saul Menem of Argentina, Brazil's regional rival.
 
A Loss of Self-Esteem
 The latest slap in the face came from Chile, which historically clung to Brazil in a strategic alliance against Argentina. "Our goal is the world," Chile's former Economy Minister, Hernan Buchi, said, arguing that Chile should stay out of Mercosur, a Southern Cone common market. "Mercosur has countries like Argentina and Brazil, which together are only 2.5 percent of the world economy."
In a feat of diplomacy in Sao Paulo, Enrique V. Iglesias, president of the Inter-American Development Bank, managed to speak recently for half an hour on Latin America's "silent revolution," its free-market economic revival, without once mentioning his host country. Home to a third of Latin Americans, Brazil has the region's largest gross national product.
"The nation is living through a crisis of self-esteem that generates an ever greater pessimism," Roberto Duailibi, the head of a Sao Paulo advertising agency, said last week in one of two booster-ish newsweekly cover stories dedicated this month to optimism.
One optimist, Marcilio Marques Moreira, Brazil's Economy Minister, cautioned in an interview here Friday: "Brazil's psychology is pendular -- we swing from the Brazilian miracle to the Brazilian disaster. I believe the national mood is beginning to improve."
But a national crisis of self-esteem is most visible in the lines of potential emigrants that form daily outside the consulates of the United States, Japan and West European nations.
 
Thousands Move Abroad
 In the 1950's, the last period of mass immigration to Brazil, 590,000 people moved here. By contrast, in the 1980's an estimated 630,000, largely middle-class Brazilians, left the nation.
A survey by DataFolha in September found that 73 percent of the respondents predicted that unemployment would increase and 81 percent predicted that inflation would increase. Seventy-two percent said their purchasing power had diminished since President Collor began his five-year term in 1990. A poll by Ogilvy & Mather showed that "confidence" in the Government had dropped from 36 percent last year to 6 percent this month.
The number of companies filing for bankruptcy and the number of bounced checks are running at double last year's levels.
"We have something no one understands: recession and inflation at the same time," Joaquim Cabral, a Rio store manager, said as he stood among unsold Christmas baskets of liquor and snacks. To make a profit on the baskets, a traditional year-end gift here, Mr. Cabral said he had increased their prices 700 percent since last year.
 
Incompetence Is Charged
 With prices rising by 26 percent in November, Brazilians have resumed time-honored dodges to beat inflation.
On pay day, middle-class Brazilians flock to supermarkets to buy a month's worth of food. By charging purchases with credit cards, shoppers effectively get discounts of up to 40 percent because credit card bills come due as long as 40 days after a charge.
Next week, when a new 50,000 cruzeiro note enters circulation, it will be worth about $55, roughly half its value when printing was approved two months earlier.
"Inflation doesn't faze me at all," said Ricardo Frank Semler, a Sao Paulo manufacturer who was named this year's businessman of the year by Brazil's leading financial newspaper, Gazeta Mercantil. "Brazil has been in a hyperinflationary mode for seven or eight years now. Brazil is just having its development delayed by incompetence. The real question is, who can make things change? It's not the guy in power. Collor has run out of gas in his first two years."
Frustrated by the opposition-controlled Congress, Mr. Collor recently vented his anger.
One week, he called Sao Paulo's business establishment "cowards." The next week, he called Sao Paulo's left-wing unionists "miscreants." Most recently, he called a group of centrist members of Congress "spoiled brats."
"The big question is: How is this volatile personality going to play the end game?" said Thomas Skidmore, an author of Brazilian history books. "I think he is moving toward getting himself impeached."
On Sunday Mr. Collor told reporters that he did not expect Brazil to resume economic growth until 1993.
Much depends on the inflation rate. Many analysts here predict that after Christmas the President will decree yet another "summer package" of controls intended to rein in prices.
"The most probable scenario is that the Government will try to muddle through, going from one little victory to another," said Senator Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a centrist congressional leader who was one of the targets of the President's "spoiled brats" remark.
A good harvest and a renegotiation of Brazil's foreign debt, Latin America's largest, could bring economic relief next year.
"Brazil has to be compared to continental-sized countries like China and India; it is slower to turn around," said Mr. Moreira, the Economy Minister. He added that Brazil's Government had "a fighting chance" of lowering monthly inflation to 2 percent by the end of next year.
In a bleaker scenario, inflation could rise above 30 percent monthly. The street protests in Rio last week could presage wider urban revolts.
"The great masses would no longer have access to basic foods," said Helio Jaguaribe de Mattos, dean of the Institute of Political and Social Studies here. "Brazil would be shaken by great riots. Parts of the cities would be burned. The military would be called in to restore order."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazil is Latin America's only country with a triple-digit inflation rate as its currency loses 1 percent of its value daily. Angry over the economy, street vendors protested last week in Rio de Janeiro. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Graph: "How Brazilians Rate Collor," tracks percentage of Gallup Poll respondents who said Brazil's President or his policies were good or excellent, April 1990-Oct. 1991 (Source: Instituto Gallup de Opiniao)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (60%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); ARGENTINA (94%); CHILE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL BRAZIL (99%); ARGENTINA (94%); CHILE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HISTORY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); TRENDS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



34 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: DUKE SET TO RUN, AN ADVISER SAYS

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30

 BODY:
David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader defeated in the Louisiana governor's race two weeks ago, plans to enter several Republican Presidential primaries next year, a top adviser to Mr. Duke said today.
"He doesn't count on winning the nomination or anything," the adviser said. "But he wants to keep the issues alive, and he wants to have some influence on the process." 
 Mr. Duke is scheduled to announce his plans in Washington on Monday. Because of that event, the adviser agreed to discuss those plans only on condition of anonymity.
 
Given Little Chance
 Mr. Duke would be given little chance of defeating President Bush in the primaries. But he could prove more than a nuisance, challenging the President from the right and sounding many of the themes used by Mr. Bush in his 1988 Presidential campaign. Even during the recent governor's race in Louisiana, national Republican strategists complained that Mr. Duke had stolen their issues.
The Duke adviser, in a telephone interview, said Mr. Duke planned to file a declaration of candidacy with the Federal Election Commission next week. He said Mr. Duke hoped to qualify for Federal matching money to help finance the campaign. To do that, he must raise $5,000 in individual contributions of $250 or less in each of 20 states.
The adviser said Mr. Duke would concentrate on Southern states that will hold primaries on March 10, which include Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas.
The adviser said Mr. Duke was considering running in Georgia, which plans to have its primary March 3, and in Michigan, which has a March 17 primary. But Mr. Duke has no plans to enter the New Hampshire primary, the nation's first, the adviser said.
In New Hampshire, Mr. Bush may face a conservative challenge from Patrick J. Buchanan, the former Nixon and Reagan White House aide who is now a syndicated columnist and television commentator.
 
More Than a Nuisance?
 Like Mr. Duke, Mr. Buchanan is not seen as a real threat to the President's nomination for re-election. But for a White House trying to rebound from recent political missteps and a stumbling economy, the challenges would be more than a nuisance, forcing Mr. Bush to engage in primary politics.
"We will oppose David Duke vigorously, no matter where he runs," said Gary Koops, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee.
Mr. Duke borrowed heavily from the national Republican organization's strategy in anchoring his campaign for governor on worries about crime, drugs, high taxes, affirmative action and the "welfare underclass."
With Mr. Duke in the race, analysts say, Mr. Bush would have to walk a fine line in dealing with those so-called wedge issues, which were powerful elements of the appeal that he, and Ronald Reagan before him, used to win the votes of the white middle class, particularly in the South.
Even in losing to Edwin W. Edwards in the election for governor two weeks ago, Mr. Duke left little doubt that he would seek a national stage for his views.
"The candidate may have lost," he said on election night, "but the message goes out loud and clear across Louisiana and across the country. The time has come to heal the liberal welfare system that is causing crime, causing poverty, causing drugs, destroying the very basis of our lives."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (66%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (62%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: DUKE, DAVID E (STATE REPR) RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



35 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Shaky but Resolute, France Is Gambling on European Unity

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 28

 BODY:
Troubled by doubts at home and shaken by its loss of influence abroad, France is gambling that it can find a new role for itself in a strong united Europe that can both compete with the United States and Japan and control Germany's expanding might.
More than any other member of the 12-nation European Community, France has emerged as the driving force behind the campaign for greater economic and political unity, which will be the focus of discussion when European leaders meet on Dec. 9 and 10 in the Dutch city of Maastricht. 
 President Francois Mitterrand has not minimized the difficulties that await the French economy. But he has argued that the country has no choice but to design its future in a European context. "France will grow through Europe," he said recently. "Its voice will be better heard."
Put differently, in a world abruptly transformed by the collapse of Communism, German unification, the Persian Gulf war and the emergence of the United States as the sole remaining superpower, France now sees a united Europe as its only hope of remaining a middle-ranking world power.
 
Leading Fight Against Britain
 At the crucial summit meeting in Maastricht, Mr. Mitterrand is therefore likely to take the lead in resisting Britain's efforts to slow down or weaken plans to enlarge the community's powers through creation of a single currency, a regional central bank and a common foreign and security policy.
For this, he is counting on the support of Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany, who is not only a convinced Europeanist but who over the last 20 months has given German backing to a series of French initiatives to accelerate the 34-year-old process of European integration.
Many European officials are already describing the Maastricht meeting as a high-stakes poker game between Mr. Mitterrand and Prime Minister John Major of Britain, both of whom have signaled that they might be willing to cast a veto if they are unhappy with the outcome.
While Mr. Major has pledged to guard Britain's sovereignty against European incursions, Mr. Mitterrand hopes to shake France out of its current malaise by convincing his countrymen that the country's prestige and prosperity have been assured by a giant new step toward European union.
So far, the 75-year-old French leader has sensed little encouragement at home. Polls indicate solid support for a stronger community, but they also show fear of the future and deep concern about unemployment, immigration and other domestic problems aggravated by an economic slowdown.
After 10 years in office, Mr. Mitterrand will arrive in Maastricht with his popularity at its lowest point since 1986 and with his Socialist Party facing likely defeat in regional elections next March and parliamentary elections in 1993. His own term in office ends in 1995.
In recent weeks the President has been trying to stir optimism. "I think we must dare to look to the horizon," he told a television audience this month. "We must begin to understand Europe, to love it. Europe is important economically, but also intellectually and spiritually.
"France will remain a great nation, but our future lies in Europe," he went on. "We must be able to speak to the Americans. We must be able to speak to the Japanese and we must be able to do so as equals. We can only do this through Europe. It is a great ideal."
 
Unperturbed Just 2 Years Ago
 Until two years ago, France seemed unperturbed about the future. It showed its independence from the United States by keeping its nuclear forces outside NATO and by developing its own ties with Moscow. It also enjoyed influence in the Arab world and virtually governed many of its former African colonies.
Having been defeated by Germany in the 1870 Franco-Prussian War and invaded by the Germans in this century's two world wars, France recognized in the 1950's that stability in Europe required close ties between the historic foes. So, with Germany anxious to end its postwar isolation, what became known as the Paris-Bonn axis was born.
Even before they were joined by Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands as founding members of the European Community in 1957, the two governments worked hard to bury their past. By the mid-1980's, with Britain among the members, they promoted creation of a single regional market as of Jan. 1, 1993.
The alliance suited both governments. France tied its currency to the German mark and saw its economy expand in Germany's shadow, while an introspective Germany quietly accepted France's political leadership. As a team, they were able to set the agenda for the European Community.
When Communism crumbled across Eastern Europe in late 1989, however, France's self-confidence was shaken. By appearing to place obstacles in the way of German unification, Mr. Mitterrand not only irritated Mr. Kohl but gave the impression that France feared a resurgence of German power in Europe.
 
Embarrassment of Gulf War
 The Persian Gulf crisis further embarrassed France. It had long been Iraq's principal Western arms supplier, but it failed to persuade Baghdad to withdraw its troops from Kuwait and was subsequently unable to contribute more than 11,000 men and a dozen aging aircraft to the war effort of the American-led coalition.
As his domestic troubles grew, Mr. Mitterrand seemed to lose his touch in foreign policy. After long advocating a Middle East peace conference, for example, he has had to watch in frustration as the United States and Soviet Union co-sponsor talks between Israel and its Arab neighbors, further highlighting France's declining influence in the region.
Since April 1990, Mr. Mitterrand has viewed accelerated European unity as the solution to France's identity crisis -- as a way of anchoring a united Germany to Western Europe and counterbalancing the political weight of the United States and the economic threat from Japan.
After persuading Mr. Kohl that it was also in Germany's interest to be seen as a loyal European, Paris began working together again with Bonn, first toward a single currency and central bank and then toward "political union" with an eventual goal of a federal Europe.
There were occasional differences in that Germany favors strengthening the European Parliament and ceding more authority to the community's executive commission in Brussels, while France prefers closer cooperation between member governments in line with its traditional vision of a "Europe of Nations."
 
Keeping Talks on Track
 But over the last year, every time the negotiations faltered or Paris and Bonn seemed to drift apart, Mr. Mitterrand and Mr. Kohl met to give new impetus to the process. Last month, they even argued that the 12 should handle most areas of foreign relations as a bloc and consider forming a European army.
Just days before the Maastricht summit, it is unclear how far France and Germany can press their demands without risking a British veto. But Mr. Mitterrand has at least made it clear that his overriding priority is to give the community a political profile that matches its economic strength.
In this, while the President's language is European, his interests remain undisguisedly national: to use the community to amplify France's voice on the world stage, and to create strict rules so that even after new members join the community in the 1990's, German influence can be tempered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; GERMANY; UNITED STATES; JAPAN EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); JAPAN (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); VETO (75%); POKER (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); DESERT STORM (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); CURRENCIES (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN FRANCOIS MAURICE MARIE MITTERRAND (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



36 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: White House Memo;
Adrift in Bush's Circle Seeking the Common Man

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29

 BODY:
If Bush Administration officials were to place a "help wanted" advertisement, they would probably choose to run it in magazines like Four Wheeler, Hot Rod and Guns & Ammo, and it would read something like this:
"Immediate opening for a consultant who understands the common fellow. Good career opportunity for someone familiar with bowling alleys, pro wrestling and K Mart who can explain 'average' thinking to a group of old-line public servants planning America's future overseas and seeking to expand into domestic portfolio." 
 To paraphrase Jane Austen, it is a truth generally acknowledged that elite males in possession of large fortunes are in want of empathy with middle-class and poor Americans hurt by a recession. Anxious about polls showing a severe erosion of support for President Bush among middle-income voters, Republicans are searching for ways to make themselves appear more sensitive.
"We've got to find more people who have a more direct sync or tie or feel for the average-income person," Robert A. Mosbacher, the rich oilman turned Commerce Secretary who is expected to be the chairman of the Bush re-election campaign, told USA Today last week.
 
Fodder for the Democrats
 Referring to the late Lee Atwater, Mr. Bush's campaign manager in 1988, who used to take great pride in forays to diners, discount stores and pro wrestling matches and in reading The National Enquirer, Mr. Mosbacher continued: "We've got to have somebody like that. It isn't me, I admit."
And it apparently isn't Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who when asked about the recession while on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" two weeks ago, said: "I think that the rush to judgment that this is the end of the Western world as we know it is entirely premature."
For the Democrats, the spectacle of a bunch of rich men huddled at the White House wondering how to connect with average Americans makes an irresistible target.
"Bush's idea of solving a domestic problem is to fire the maid and yell at the butler," Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the Democratic Presidential candidate, told the Chicago state Democratic chairmen the other day.
Ann Lewis, a Democratic consultant in Boston, said, "You've got a set of people for whom unemployment has always been a statistic, never a fear."
For the last decade, the Republican Party has tried to escape its elitist image as the party of big business and country clubs. It deftly co-opted the symbols and issues of populism from the Democrats, successfully wooing the middle class with flags, country music singers, speeches on the death penalty and law and order, and racially tinged messages.
 
Sununu vs. Atwater
 But George Bush, the first scion of the old-line Eastern establishment to run the country since Franklin D. Roosevelt, makes a sharp distinction between politics and governing.
During his 1988 campaign, he was willing to surround himself with operatives who had sandpaper personalities and middle-class backgrounds. But as President, Mr. Bush has has surrounded himself with friends and like-minded men, old-money millionaires, Ivy League tennis buddies and affluent businessmen.
The White House chief of staff, John H. Sununu, one of the few men in the President's ruling circle who is not a millionaire, has been little help in conveying the concerns of average Americans. Worried Republicans note that a chief of staff who can take a limousine trip to New York, spend nearly $5,000 at a stamp auction at Christie's and return to Washington on a corporate jet, is not a man who can help George Bush understand the pain of people in unemployment lines and soup kitchens.
Mr. Atwater, by contrast, ventured into a bikers' gathering in Luray, Va., in the spring of 1988 to test out on the Harley-Davidson crowd the story of Willie Horton, the convicted Massachusetts murderer who escaped while on a weekend furlough and raped a woman. Mr. Horton later became a favorite Republican symbol in the effort to portray Gov. Michael S. Dukakis as being soft on crime.
When Mr. Bush tripped on his Greenwich, Conn., roots and asked for "a splash" more coffee at a New Hampshire truck stop, Mr. Atwater was there with some refresher tips on avoiding "Ivy-speak."
But pork rinds, promoted by Mr. Atwater as a down-home staple of Mr. Bush's diet, have not been seen in the White House in nearly three years; Mr. Bush's favorite snack, it turns out, is popcorn.
Richard M. Nixon and Lyndon B. Johnson railed against the establishment and old-money types, proclaiming themselves men of the people. A Johnson aide, Joseph A. Califano Jr., recalled that President Johnson often upbraided him by saying: "That's a terrible answer. Tell me what you learned on the streets of Brooklyn; don't tell me what you learned at Harvard Law School."
John F. Kennedy, an affluent, Ivy League President whose money was not old or insider, brought in some upper crust officials but made a point to keep some old-style pols in the White House mix, the "Irish Mafia" of Kenny O'Donnell and Dave Powers.
Ronald Reagan had a kitchen Cabinet of self-made millionaires in California, but the Midwestern son of an alcoholic and often out-of-work salesman had perfect pitch when it came to the common touch.
At a recent Republican strategy dinner in Washington, one top Bush adviser talked about what his friend, the chairman of a Fortune 50 company, was saying about the economy. Mr. Reagan, by contrast, always talked anecdotally about what shop owners in the heartland were saying.
So Republicans at the dinner sat around trying to devise schemes to gain the confidence of "Joe Sixpack." Kenneth M. Duberstein, the savvy Republican consultant, suggested that Mr. Bush might signal his concern by jawboning the banks about consumer interest rates, on the theory that the average man may not understand the prime rate or the discount rate but comprehends the rate he sees on his credit card statements every month.
The next thing Mr. Duberstein knew, someone had relayed his inchoate idea to the White House, Mr. Bush suddenly had offered it in a speech, Senator Alfonse D'Amato of New York had proposed legislation to limit credit card rates, the stock market had plunged and the White House was in the political soup because it appeared to be lurching about with half-baked ideas.
 
Bowling, Not Golf
 "The smartest thing the White House could do right now is to declare Tuesday night bowling night and make everyone go to a bowling alley in suburban Virginia every week to spend some time with regular guys," said Michael McCurry, a Democratic consultant who is helping Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska with his Presidential campaign.
"Instead of wrapping himself in pig rinds, now George Bush is always on the golf course," said Representative Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado. "In their world, I guess, the golf course is the place where a lot of business gets done. But if they want to know about real folks, they should watch the Roseanne Barr show more. She's not out on the golf course."
Even Mr. Nixon has expressed disgust with the country-club image of Mr. Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle. The Los Angeles Times reported recently that the former President had told an associate that "the average guy is not on the golf course, the tennis court or a speedboat because he doesn't have one." Mr. Nixon, the paper reported, had "told Quayle directly that he should stop bringing his golf clubs with him as he travels around the world."
Some Democrats think that the White House tone deafness about the middle class may translate into a potent issue in the 1992 Presidential election.
"At the heart of this is the problem of what happens when policy is made by those people most insulated from the impact of that policy, and what happens when economic decisions are made by people who grew up with trust funds," Ms. Lewis, the Democratic consultant, said.
Representative Susan Molinari, Republican of Staten Island, says the problem is one of communication, not compassion. "The message that Joe Sixpack is hurting has gotten through to George Bush," Ms. Molinari said.
"But the White House has got to figure out how to communicate the President's real concern. The mood of the people shifts rapidly and hits hard. We have to be willing to intercept it immediately. That's where we've lost our way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I think that the rush to judgment that this is the end of the Western world as we know it is entirely premature," Nicholas F. Brady, the Treasury Secretary, said of the recession two weeks ago in a television interview. Mr. Brady, meeting with President Bush earlier this week, is a member of the affluent inner circle that concerns Republicans as they try to win back support from middle-income voters. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%); WRESTLING (71%); COUNTRY MUSIC (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); BOWLING CENTERS (56%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM HARKIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



37 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 44; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Wood Rats Assist in Study of Species in New York

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW PALTZ, N.Y., Nov. 27

 BODY:
With a radio strapped to his chest, an antenna in one hand and a stopwatch in the other, Edwin McGowan listened intently to a steady beeping.
"That's 10 beeps in 12.19 seconds," he said. 
 The signals came from a wood rat, one of 29 imported from West Virginia and released here in the Shawangunk Mountains in an effort to learn why the native species has disappeared in New York. Each was equipped with a small radio transmitter around its neck, a six-inch wire antenna for transmission and tags on its ears.
"It's alive, probably sitting or resting," Mr. McGowan said, interpreting the beeps, which reflected the animal's temperature, as a sign of health.
 
A Two-Year Study
 Mr. McGowan and Chris Naderefski, both wildlife technicians employed by the State Department of Environmental Conservation, have just begun a two-year assignment studying the life, health and death of the imported wood rats.
Despite the fiscal crisis in Albany, the wood rat project is going forward, at an estimated cost of $55,000, outside the state budget process.
About half the money came from the "Return a Gift to Wildlife" program in which New Yorkers volunteer contributions on their state income-tax forms. The remaining money came from the Federal Government, through a wildlife restoration fund derived from taxes paid by hunters on purchases of firearms.
"We don't believe that environmental concerns should grind to a halt because of current economic conditions," said Peter Nye, director of the state's endangered species unit. "It's part of our mandate to maintain the diversity of life forms in the state. The public has made it clear that it wants to protect endangered species."
 
Related to Deer Mouse
 The wood rat is no relation to Norway rats and others that have plagued cities and farms for centuries. It is a native American species, related to the deer mouse and somewhat similar to the western pack rat, which often steals and hides brightly colored objects.
When full-grown, it is slightly smaller than a squirrel, weighing less than a pound, grayish brown on top and white underneath. It has long whiskers, big ears and eyes, and, unlike other rats, it has hair on its tail.
The native animals were last seen in New York in 1987, when they were put on the official list of 34 endangered species that the state considers deserving of special protection and worthy of being saved for future generations. The wood rat is also listed as an endangered or threatened species in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois. The cause of its decline is unknown, but among the theories are a colder climate, a declining supply of acorns because of gypsy moth damage to oak trees and the spreading of the raccoon roundworm, which is fatal to wood rats.
 
Released in Nature Preserve
 The current experiment is aimed at determining the cause of the decline, not at restoring the species to the state, although that is possible in the future, said Thomas C. Jorling, the State Commissioner of Environmental Conservation.
In the experiment, the state released the 29 wood rats in September here on Bonticou Crag, a large rock outcrop in the Mohonk Preserve, a 5,600-acre private nature preserve west of New Paltzthat is cooperating in the experiment. Twenty-one of the wood rats are still alive, Mr. McGowan said. Three have been lost in the crevices of the rock formations where they like to live, he said. Of the other five, one was killed by a car, one by a predator, one by bites possibly by another wood rat and two by the raccoon roundworm, he said.
"It's premature to tell, but circumstantial evidence so far indicates that the roundworm appears to play a role in the disappearance of the wood rat," he said.
 
'They're Easy to Trap'
 Mr. McGowan, a 25-year-old graduate of Bowdoin College in Maine, said he was pleased with his new assignment.
"The wood rats are a great species to work with," he said, especially when compared with the moose that were his last assignment. "They're easy to trap with apples and peanut butter, they're easy to handle and you can work with a whole population in a small area, in contrast to the vast range of the moose in the Adirondacks."
Mr. McGowan and his associates say the wood rat is really a likable creature that has been maligned because of its name. "Some of our people think we should call them boulder bunnies," he said, referring to their preference for living in the rock formations. "That would certainly help their public image."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edwin McGowan, a wildlife technician with the State Department of Environmental Conservation, is studying the behavior of wood rats near New Paltz, N.Y. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION (NYS)

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW PALTZ (NY); WEST VIRGINIA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: RATS; RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RODENTS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); INCOME TAX (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



38 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: West Sees Russia's Moves as Good

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30

 BODY:
A move by the Russian Republic today to bail out the Kremlin after the main central Government bank ran out of money might be an encouraging sign for Western governments, bankers and investors, American experts and officials said.
The accelerating takeover of economic authority by the Russian republic might halt rising economic chaos, they said, adding that it will not disrupt Western food credits and debt assistance. 
 "If I was a Western banker or a Western government, I would consider this an encouraging step," said Dmitri K. Simes, a Soviet expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
The salary guarantee for Soviet bureaucrats pledged today by President Boris N. Yeltsin of the Russian republic and other recent actions "would say that essentially Russia is the lender of last resort and that the disappearance of the former Soviet Union doesn't mean the disappearance of the former functions," said William R. Cline, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
 
Accelerated Shriveling
 By paying the Soviet Union's bills, Mr. Yeltsin might gain the ability to determine which programs are bankrolled and thereby take over much of the central Government's political authority, said an American official who insisted on not being identified. "If you are paying the salaries of the government then you are the government -- just ask Congress," the official said.
The United States and its allies have been bracing themselves in the last month for an accelerated shriveling of the Soviet central Government. In an effort to insure repayment regardless of whether the union survives, Western countries have insisted successfully that not only the central Government but also the republics pledge to stay current on new and past loans.
The United States' $1.5 billion food aid package on Nov. 20 and the Soviet foreign debt assistance pact on Nov. 21 include detailed backup provisions for the republics to make payments and even distribute food if Moscow cannot.
"Just in case it did happen, worse comes to worst, we took some steps to insure against a default," said Roger D. Runningen, the Agriculture Department's press secretary.
The main Soviet bank, the Gosbank, halted payments from central Government accounts on Friday after exhausting its authority to print more rubles to finance the Kremlin's budget deficit. A separate Soviet Central Bank, the Vneshekonombank, handles foreign exchange transactions, including payments on agricultural credits and other Soviet foreign debts, but it has had to suspend for several days its domestic sales of foreign currency temporarily because of a cash shortage.
The printing of ever more rubles by Gosbank has fueled inflation and prompted warnings of possible hyperinflation. Whether the Russian bailout improves matters will depend on whether Russia pays for it by cutting Russian or Soviet spending, increasing taxes or ordering the printing of yet more rubles, Mr. Cline said.
The shift in economic authority this weekend might mean that for the first time in several months, a single person might be in a position to bring order to the country's crumbling economy.
"It enhances Russian credibility because there is someone in Moscow willing to say, 'The buck stops here,"' Mr. Simes said.
The paralyzed Soviet Government has been unable to impose a new monetary, fiscal and tariff system on the disintegrating country, but a Soviet Government discreetly controlled by the Russian federation might be able to do so without antagonizing other republics excessively, he said.
Friday's move by the Gosbank might also complicate further the distribution of food in the Soviet Union, as the cash-strapped central authorities have already been able to buy from farmers only half the usual quantity of grain. The result might be local food shortages and much higher prices, although no starvation, American officials warn.
If successful, the Russian effort now to slow inflation by curbing the Gosbank's issuance of currency could also help restore the confidence of foreign investors. Foreign companies and individuals continue to avoid investing dollars except in deals offering dollar-denominated profits or the export of internationally traded commodities like timber or oil.
While the August coup has transformed Soviet political life, the underlying economy remains deeply divided. A small sector does business in foreign currencies, while the rest of the country does business in rubles with very little access to foreign investment and technology, said Danielle S. Downing, the American owner of a small grain-trading company in Moscow.
"Nobody's really going in there with money for the infrastructure," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); CURRENCIES (64%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



39 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Going Slow on Economy Is Risky, Aides Tell Bush

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30

 BODY:
Despite President Bush's decision to cling to a go-slow strategy for economic revival, White House advisers are increasingly concerned about the risks -- to the economy as well as to 1992 campaign prospects -- of simply waiting for the anemic recovery to take wing.
When Mr. Bush suddenly endorsed a House Republican plan to cut taxes this week and challenged the Democrats to pass it, he was, in part, admitting that the issue of new economic initiatives had moved from "whether" to "when," a senior White House official said. Mr. Bush himself has promised to offer a fresh set of proposals to revive growth in his State of the Union Message, traditionally in late January. 
 But as expectations of growth have shrunk far below what was anticipated only a month or two ago, the White House has come to acknowledge that the risks may be greater than initially thought, the official said. To take out some political insurance, he said, advisers are actively exploring more potent remedies in case the President is obliged to propose stronger medicine than now considered.
The Administration has long had various proposals on the table, the centerpiece being a cut in the capital gains tax, which the White House has berated Congress for not adopting. What advisers are considering now are additional stimulative measures that could be put in place within the budget agreement, as well as more drastic measures that would break the agreement, if the economy gets significantly worse.
Michael Boskin, the Stanford professor who heads the President's Council of Economic Advisers, has begun detailed analysis of measures the White House might offer if the chances of at least modest recovery get much lower, said one person who met with him recently.
"I think they're still hoping against hope they'll get some good news about the economy," said James Annable, chief economist for the First National Bank of Chicago. "But that hope is just waning."
The Administration has not yet abandoned the view that the economy might still manage a modest recovery on the basis of natural rejuvenative forces, supplemented by cuts in interest rates by the Federal Reserve. That is by far the preferred scenario, as the short-term gains of acting now are weighed against the potential long-term consequences to the economy. These would include the risk of losing Wall Street's confidence by abandoning the discipline of last year's budget agreement to accommodate new tax measures.
 
Tax Cut Hearings Set
 Mr. Boskin, who is expected to appear Thursday at the first of a series of House Ways and Means Committee hearings on tax-cut proposals, still regards adherence to the 1990 budget deal as essential to maintaining the confidence of securities markets, without which interest rates would assuredly rise.
But he also contends that the budget-deficit problem is not as big as is sometimes portrayed and that there is some room for tax cuts without breaking the budget agreement.
As recently as a month or two ago, the consensus among private economists was that the gross national product would expand at a rate approaching 3 percent in the October-December quarter. Now, however, there is a widespread expectation that growth may be only 1 percent or so -- markedly less, in fact, than in the third quarter -- and at least one Presidential adviser does not rule out a negative figure.
Officials and financial authorities say the full effects of previous cuts in short-term interest rates have still to be felt, and they point out more are expected. They also note that the Congressional Budget Office, which earlier studied in detail the question of whether the Federal Reserve Board's help would be sufficient, determined that it probably would be.
Amid the numerous downbeat statistics on the economy these days there are indeed various gains, some directly related to lower interest rates. Housing starts, though scarcely robust, have climbed practically every month since January and sales are also up as lower mortgage rates helped make homes more affordable.
Other encouragement comes from data on orders for durable goods and for exports, both crucial to the industrial sector of the economy. The White House also notes that for various reasons, including the problems in the banking system and the relatively mild nature of the recession, it never expected the first year of recovery to produce more than half the 6 percent growth posted in the initial stage of the typical postwar rebound.
The White House also points to some impending benefit from the highway bill that passed this week, though containing more money than it would like, and from extended benefits for the unemployed that it fought to minimize.
But what some have called the "don't just do something, stand there" strategy has other rationales. One is the traditional Republican inclination to avoid interventions, believing not only that the Government has less ability to manage economies than is widely supposed but that short-term gain often produces harmful long-term consequences.
Another inhibition is the nation's budget deficit, which is so large it seems to preclude use of the usual antidote to recession -- a combination of tax cuts and increased Government spending. Except for the one in 1970, all eight postwar recessions have been countered at this stage by fiscal stimulus.
Mr. Boskin has noted that the average fiscal stimulus coming out of postwar recessions has been 1.5 percent of gross national product, or about $75 billion in today's economy.
With Federal stimulus nowhere near this large, and with fiscal drag at the state and local level twice as severe as usual, it could be necessary to put sums of this magnitude into consumer's hands. But an Administration official made clear that this remained only a contingency, and one it hoped to avoid.
Unlike the Federal Reserve, which can readily reverse course if it finds itself headed the wrong way, abandonment of the budget agreement would be a major "discontinuity," Mr. Boskin believes.
 
No Room to Maneuver
 "The reason for standing pat is because of the present condition of the budget," said Lyle E. Gramley, a former member of the Federal Reserve Board and now chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association. "You simply do not have room to maneuver."
Although both fiscal and monetary initiatives operate with lags, some extending six months or more, most private economists believe that there is relatively little risk in waiting until January for any new initiatives. They say they are extremely wary of what might be rushed through if Congress, which adjourned this week, were recalled to legislate recovery.
"If I were Michael Boskin, I'd probably go slow on economic and political grounds," said Robert Giordano, director of economic research at Goldman, Sachs & Company. Taking an extra six weeks to design a solid program should pay off on both fronts, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, has begun detailed analysis of measures the White House might offer if the chances of economic recovery get smaller. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (53%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; BOSKIN, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



40 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reveals Sum of Aid It Withheld From Kenya

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov. 30

 BODY:
In an unusually blunt statement, the American Embassy has announced here how much Washington penalized Kenya this week when the United States and other aid donors held up new aid because of Kenya's poor political and economic performance.
The statement on Friday appeared to be an attempt to drive home the point that there was abundant American aid available for Africa but Kenya could not expect to benefit from it unless the Government curbed corruption and opened up the political system. 
 The embassy said the United States had been prepared to pledge $47 million in economic and social assistance to Kenya for 1992, an increase of $8 million over 1991.
Instead, Washington agreed to release only a previously agreed on $19 million for family planning, agricultural research and assistance to private humanitarian agencies, all programs that do not involve the Government.
The remaining $28 million intended to finance agricultural and market development programs was contingent on Kenya moving forward on political and economic reforms, the embassy said.
The $28 million was put on hold, the embassy said because of the "the Kenyan Government's failure so far to carry through with key economic refroms that had been promised earlier."
The United States Ambassador to Kenya, Smith Hempstone, has been the loudest Western critic of President Daniel arap Moi's insistence on clinging to the one-party system and his failure to clean up corruption. American officials have often stated that if Kenya moved forward on reforms, the country would receive at least twice what it has been getting from Washington in the last several years.
At the last two donor meetings, like the one in Paris last week, Kenya received about $800 million in development aid each year from internatonal financial institutions and donor nations. This time, the donors said Kenya would continue to receive aid already pledged but declined to specify any new amounts of aid. Instead, new aid to Kenya would be reconsidered in six months and would be linked to improvements in human rights and economic performance.
The Kenyan Government's reaction to the failure to get the much needed new aid has been muted. There have been no public pronoucements here.
Instead, Mr. Moi has called a meeting for Monday of the governing council of his ruling party, the Kenya African National Union, prompting intense speculation about possible reforms. While the donors were meeting in Paris, Mr. Moi had two of his closest political colleagues arrested in connection with the 1990 slaying of Foreign Minister Robert Ouko, an opponent of Government corruption. Also this week, Mr. Moi's Government dropped charges against a number of opposition leaders who were detained for organizing a rally.
The arrests of Nicholas Biwott, a powerful former cabinet minister and Hezekiah Oyugi, a former head of internal security, as well as the leniency toward the opposition leaders fueled speculation that Mr. Moi was planning to make some steps next week toward political pluralism.
Several opposition leaders and Western diplomats said it seemed possible that Mr. Moi might announce elections after the party meeting on Monday.
But as yet, no formal charges have been filed against Mr. Biwott or Mr. Oyugi, and President Moi has suspended the long-running judicial inquiry into Mr. Ouko's death at which allegations against the two men were being publicly aired.
At the same time that Kenya suffered from aid being held back, a group of American judicial experts who visited Kenya in July criticized the judicial system, which they said had been weakened by political interference.
"The administration of justice in Kenya is dangerously incomplete," the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); KENYA (95%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENYA UNITED STATES (98%); KENYA (95%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (90%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); NAIROBI, KENYA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; KENYA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TRENDS (72%); AGRICULTURE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); ARRESTS (63%); FAMILY PLANNING (55%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE DANIEL ARAP MOI (55%); DANIEL TOROTICH ARAP MOI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



41 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 44; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: A Rising Urgency for Neediest Cases

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
Even during the best times in the 1980's the streets of New York gave readier testimony to the spread of poverty than to the rise of wealth. Now, suffering and want have seeped behind the doors of thousands of homes, cutting the distance between security and disaster to anxious margins.
The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund begins its 80th appeal today as the economy seems to be contracting into an angry fist and people only whisper "depression" as if saying it aloud would make it so. For the seven charities it serves, the the appeal poses a simple but urgent question: Will New Yorkers who have less give more? 
 Already struggling under the needs of the city's chronic legion of sufferers, officials of the charities say they are being overwhelmed by requests for the most basic sorts of help -- food, shelter and clothing -- from newly impoverished individuals and families trying to brake their free fall into poverty.
 
Charities Cut Back
 Yet as more New Yorkers turn for a helping hand, shrinking financing and swelling caseloads are forcing the charities to disband or scale back programs that pull people out of poverty.
"We are performing triage on the most basic services," said David Jones, executive director of the Community Service Society of New York. "We are forced to decide whose needs are most pressing amongst a multitude in desperate need."
Some of the casualties include:
* A program that has enabled homeless people to renovate and eventually own abandoned buildings.
* A transitional living program that has taught the newly housed homeless how to take care of their new homes.
* A homemaker program that taught single teen-age mothers how to care for their babies and cope with the stresses of parenthood.
"These cutbacks mean hundreds, thousands of people who want to better themselves will not have the chance," said Donna Santarsiero, executive director of the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service. "I don't think people know what a tremendous difference even a small amount of money can make."
The charities provide a wide range of services to a diverse population, including meals for people with AIDS who would otherwise go hungry at home, job training for disabled men and women who yearn for independence, counseling for child abusers who want to stop hurting their children and for substance abusers who to stop hurting themselves.
And they provide medical and financial support to a little girl named Vanessa Morris. Delivered at 28 weeks, weighing one pound, addicted crack and crippled, she has had three operations to bring life into her legs. Now 3, she weighs only 25 pounds. She is still not toilet-trained and cannot form sentences. But Vanessa's face brightens as she claps her hands and exclaims "Mommy, Daddy," when her foster parents, Jacob and Ida Edwards, who have raised her since she was 5 months old, enter her room.
To continue providing services to little girls like Vanessa, the charities said they must rely even more heavily on individual donations. However, so far this year contributions are remaining flat or are decreasing. The Children's Aid Society reports that its donations are down 7 percent this year. Plate collections have fallen 4 percent and unsolicited contributions a full 30 percent, at the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn. And despite a big campaign that has attracted 55,000 first-time givers, the United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York projects that it will only meet last year's fund-raising total of $125 million.
 
Fund Lags Last Year's Pace
 Similarly, The New York Times Neediest Funds Campaign is starting its campaign $16,000 behind last year's pace. Arthur Gelb, president of the Neediest Cases Fund and of The New York Times Foundation, said he was hopeful that contributors who might feel vulnerable themselves would respond to those in greater need.
"Compassionate giving is desperately needed to redeem abandoned children from our streets, to treat AIDS victims crowding our hospitals, to comfort the lonely and terrified who rarely leave their homes, and to nurture babies who received inadequate prenatal care and those were maimed in the womb by their mother's use of crack," Mr. Gelb said. "For the survival of these and other victims, the moral and financial support of all concerned New Yorkers are once again urgently required. The Neediest Cases Fund is a major avenue for generous giving."
Last year, the Neediest Cases Fund took in a record $4,439,093.47. That amount included donations from at least 15,580 individuals and organizations, the vast majority of which were less than $100. This year's drive starts with $1,064,955.86, largely representing grants from estates and foundations made since the last campaign ended on Feb. 28. This year's drive will also continue until the end of February.
The Neediest Cases Fund can be traced back the Christmas of 1911, when a shabbily dressed man asked Adolph S. Ochs, then publisher of The New York Times, for some money for a place to sleep. Mr. Ochs gave him a few dollars and asked him to come back the next day for a job.
The encounter inspired Mr. Ochs to assign a reporter to write profiles of the city's "100 Neediest Cases." The campaign, begun on Dec. 15, 1912, told readers of "a world of famine in the midst of plenty; of cruel heart and body hunger with bounty in sight but not in reach." In nine days, $3,630.88 was raised.
In 1912, more than a million immigrants, Italians, Poles, Jews and Central Europeans, came to America in search of a better life. Many found only penury, hunger and disease in the tenements of New York.
Today, America is in the midst of another great wave of immigration and these searchers, from Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, are also struggling. Many of them are populating the city's poorer neighborhoods. Many live in modern tenements, sleeping three or four to a room. They cannot afford nutritional food for their children. And diseases like tuberculosis, a scourge in 1912, are ravaging their communities.
But the children and grandchildren of the earlier immigrants, and countless others who have risen from poverty in their own lifetimes testify to the fact that while the poor may always be with us, they are never the same people.
"People think there is some static thing called the underclass, inhabited by the same chronically poor individuals that are nothing else from cradle to grave," said Mr. Jones of the Community Service Society of New York. "In fact, only 5 percent of the population can be counted among the persistently poor. The vast majority are people who by some bad turn fall into poverty, and what often makes the difference for them is having a helping hand when things are tough."
 
 
7 GROUPS HELP IN 80TH APPEAL
 Checks should be made payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or to any of these organizations:
Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, 285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, 1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn, 191 Joralem Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
Children's Aid Society, 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
Community Service Society of New York, 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, 281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, 130 East 59th Street, New York, N.Y. 10022.
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
To delay may mean to forget.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vanessa Morris, on the lap of her foster mother, Ida Edwards, was born weighing one pound, addicted to crack and crippled. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund provided medical and financial support allowing her to have three operations on her legs. Vanessa, now 3, has been with Ms. Edwards since she was 5 months old. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); CHARITIES (90%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); FOSTER CARE (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



42 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Every Coach Needs a Lift Sometimes

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

DATELINE: CINCINNATI

 BODY:
RAY HANDLEY needs a helicopter. Sam Wyche needs a helicopter. All football coaches could use helicopters, not just for the mobility but for the decibels.
Handley of the Giants and Wyche of the Bengals, whose teams meet today at Riverfront Stadium, have had problems in those few minutes a week when they had to deal with civilians.
Football coaches really are a breed apart from baseball, basketball and hockey strategists, who spend more time socializing in public and less time plotting in sterile bunkers. 
 Not that other sports don't have their bullies and their blowhards. Billy Martin was as paranoid as any football coach, and Bobby Knight brings the ethos of the line of scrimmage to his every waking moment, and Tom Webster of the Los Angeles Kings deserved more than a 12-game suspension for chucking a hockey stick onto the ice last week.
Most football coaches don't know how to act in public because they are rarely there. This is a business that judges a coach as weak-willed if he knows his children's names. Dick Vermeil was well into middle age before he noticed there was such a thing as fall colors.
Football turns its coaches into warped Strangelovian dictators who spend most of their lives watching flickering figures on film, getting hit, getting up, oops, falling down again, backwards and forwards, for eternity.
Blinking like moles, or ponies who have spent a lifetime in a coal mine, coaches emerge for a few minutes a week, and often get themselves in trouble. Some, like Wyche, manipulate and cajole, and others, like Handley, stumble to find the right words.
Wyche's employers are weary of his feuds and diatribes, particularly last year when the league fined him for trying to ban female reporters from his locker room. He was afraid his lads might forget to wear a towel and therefore be so humiliated they could not put the whammo on their opponents.
With the Giants trying to gain a wild-card berth in the playoffs, Handley does not need distractions today, as Phil Simms starts at quarterback in place of Jeff Hostetler, who has several broken bones in his back. Handley has already made some gracious gestures to minimize his impulsive run for daylight last Monday. Less than 24 hours after fearing that Hostetler might be paralyzed, Handley was asked by a television newsman who would start if Hostetler were healthy.
The coach reacted as any other mortal might react on too much tension and not enough sleep. He walked out of his conference.
This is when coaches could all use a helicopter the way former President Reagan did. For eight years, the President would point to his helicopter and cup his hand to his ear.
What about unemployment? What about taxes? What about the Contras? What about arms to Iran? It was a classic vaudeville routine, the shaggy helicopter. If you could read his lips, the President was saying, "I can't hear you because of the helicopter." As in many other matters, President Bush has studied Reagan very well.
Why should football coaches have any less protection? They are used to observing their legions from towers overlooking isolated practice fields. They are at their most impressive leading tons of clomping, stomping players through the runway and onto the field, like MacArthur up to his waist in Inchon.
For reasons they do not totally understand -- maybe it has something to do with municipally owned stadiums and tax breaks for ownership -- the coaches must face the press. They suspect we wouldn't know a strong-side safety blitz from an entrechat, and they are right.
If the coach could activate the rotors of his waiting helicopter, he could duck the hard questions. It would not even have to be a real helicopter. They could copy the helicopter in "Miss Saigon," the one that takes the last Yanks out of the city.
It's all show-biz: the actors climb in the side door and secretly exit behind the screen before the pseudo-helicopter rises, emitting noise and wind, an extremely powerful ending to the first act.
In this high-tech age, what football coach would not like this little toy at his disposal? And at the end of the conference, Coach could climb on board, give a signal to a mock helicopter pilot, and slip out the back, jack, as the motor roars. They could blare a recording of "Hail to the Chief," and everybody would feel important.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray Handley (Barton Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); OHIO, USA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); OHIO, USA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS; HELICOPTERS HELICOPTERS (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); BASEBALL (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); BONE FRACTURES (60%); 

PERSON: HANDLEY, RAY; VECSEY, GEORGE RONALD REAGAN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



43 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Rescuing Michael's Teeth

 BODY:
"Ahora, abre tu boca, Michael, como el dinosaureo."
The dental hygienist wants Michael to open his mouth wide, just like the gaping toy dinosaur she's wiggling. This is no ordinary dentist's office. It's a clinic on wheels, and every week it comes to Washington Heights on a rescue mission aided by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 In tough times, trips to the dentist or the doctor are unaffordable luxuries for parents like Michael's, who have no health insurance. This mobile clinic, run by the Children's Aid Society, is here to save Michael's teeth.
"Ahhh, buen muchacho!" A very good 4-year-old, Michael opens his mouth wide, giving the dentist a perfect view of the two fillings he got last week. Actually, Michael and his dentist don't call them fillings: these are Teen-Age Mutant Ninja Turtle stars. In the front of the van, other children are having their vision and hearing tested.
First-generation immigrant children like Michael usually lack the benefits of fluoridated water and a good diet from birth. The hygienist presents him with a brand new toothbrush and the toy dinosaur to take home. In return, Michael flashes what anybody would call a million-dollar smile.
Because of the wrenching effects of the recession and cuts in public programs, thousands of children in New York City are in urgent need of basic health care. Poor diet increases the frequency of illness and dental caries. Measles and tuberculosis spread more quickly among the young in overcrowded, inadequate housing. When routine care is neglected, even the commonplace infections and diseases of childhood can lead to hospitalization, chronic health problems, even death.
Many children can be rescued now through The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, which begins its 80th annual appeal today. Donations are used to meet basic needs like immunization, eyeglasses and dental X-rays. Through programs like the health van, children are tested for life-threatening ailments like lead poisoning, tuberculosis and sickle cell anemia. The fund cares for children born infected with the AIDS virus and identifies and rescues victims of child abuse.
The fund, known as the Hundred Neediest Cases Fund when it was created in 1912, today reaches out to help many more. It passes every dollar to the neediest through seven private social service agencies; no money is kept back for administration or solicitation. Contributions to the fund are tax deductible to the extent permitted by law. Any amount is welcome.
Checks should be made payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and mailed to Post Office Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Neediest too, need dental care.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; EDITORIALS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH DENTISTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ORAL HYGIENE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); CAVITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); MEASLES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CHILD ABUSE (75%); LEAD POISONING (75%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (72%); TUBERCULOSIS (69%); NUTRITION (66%); AIDS & HIV (66%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); POISONINGS (64%); VIRUSES (64%); ANEMIA (63%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (63%); LEAD (63%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (62%); FLUORIDATION (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



44 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 11; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: What Foreign Policy?

BYLINE: By James Webb; James Webb was Assistant Secretary of Defense and Secretary of the Navy in the Reagan Administration.

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va.

 BODY:
The Democratic challengers to President Bush have apparently decided to cede him his experience in foreign affairs and instead to focus on domestic issues, particularly the economy. This would be a mistake.
Americans demand a President who is adroit in the international arena. The Democrats' retreat from an affirmative foreign affairs role since the middle of the Vietnam War coincides exactly with their failure in Presidential elections. Allowing Republicans to continue setting the foreign policy agenda while arguing from the back bench befits a legislator or perhaps a governor, but not a President. 
 We need this debate. In previous years, especially before the collapse of Eastern Europe and the unhinging of the Soviet Union, it was not necessary for leaders to outline the specific maxims under which they would conduct foreign affairs. Our economy was clearly the world's strongest. And despite sometimes vitriolic argument over the appropriate mix of military, diplomatic and economic levers, we were united in our desire to contain expansionist Communism.
The still fragile resolution of the cold war was in many ways a Pyrrhic victory for the U.S. We lost more than 100,000 young men fighting Communist soldiers in Asia. For the first time in our history we stationed large standing forces in foreign countries in peacetime -- almost one-third of our Army and nearly 40 percent of our tactical Air Force were assigned to Europe's defense alone. We bled our economy white and saw our standard of living decrease as countries benefiting from our protection refurbished, became our competitors and now threaten to become our economic superiors.
As new power centers emerge, the U.S. is frequently viewed as a passive observer. The European Community is moving toward fiscal and possible federal union. Asia is transforming itself, with Japan at the economic center and China the political and military fulcrum. Except for our military power, the U.S. is bringing less and less to the table.
Mr. Bush, while correctly rejecting renewed calls for isolationism, has failed to articulate the direction in which our country must move. Behind the constant motion, his foreign policy suffers the same disabilities as his domestic policy.
It is mostly reactive rather than visionary. Secretary of State James Baker deserves high marks for postwar efforts in the Mideast, and Mr. Bush should not be strongly faulted for his lack of specific policies to address rapid change in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. But this Administration's policies have hardly been guided by concrete principles.
Here are some of the confusing "lessons" from the last three years:
The violation of a nation's territory is wrong when Iraq attacks Kuwait, but acceptable when we quietly cede Lebanon to a rearmed and unrepentant Syria.
Democratic evolution is vital when Soviet citizens take their government back from a hard-line coup, but not of consequence when the Chinese ask for continued most-favored-nation status after the slaughter at Tiananmen Square, or in the Arab nations that so cleverly made use of our military assets against Iraq.
We will normalize relations with Vietnam if it supports internationally supervised elections in Cambodia, but will not ask that it honor its commitment in the 1973 Paris Peace Accords to hold internationally supervised elections in Vietnam.
U.S. foreign policy lacks clear principles because it depends greatly on personal ties. Mr. Bush seems to believe in the existence of a fraternity of world leaders who can get along and make a deal, no matter the degree of their tyranny or the ideology that drives them. His courting of Hafez al-Assad is dangerous. In the time Syria has been our "ally" it has consolidated its hold on Lebanon, destroyed the Christian Phalange militia, acquired Scud-C missiles from North Korea, and is now rumored to be receiving arms shipments from the Soviets and nuclear assistance from China.
This is the kind of costly realpolitik that led to the two military engagements Mr. Bush has savored since becoming President: fighting against tyrants in Iraq and Panama who only a few years earlier had received the active support of Mr. Bush and our Government.
The President's curiously soft treatment of the Chinese has caused widespread reverberations. The East Asian land mass has grown even more repressive as Europe has become more free. China, with a fifth of the world's population, is asserting itself as the dominant military and political power in Asia, and is now a major arms dealer.
One of China's principal strategies is to erect an alliance against U.S. pressure for political liberalization. China seems also to favor nuclear proliferation, reportedly assisting Iran, Pakistan and possibly Syria in this regard.
The impact of the soft American treatment can be seen in China's recent rapprochement with Vietnam, a historic enemy. In 16 years the inept Hanoi Government has driven two million of its best and brightest people into exile, and destroyed an economy that today provides a per capita income of only $180 a year.
After the Tiananmen massacre, Vietnam's Communists conducted their own crackdown, the country's most brutal since 1975. They are vastly unpopular at home. They are also desperate for cash, Soviet aid having dried up almost completely over the past two years.
With no cards to play, Vietnam has also followed China's lead in maneuvering the U.S. into normalizing relations without having to liberalize politically. Mr. Bush's road map for normalization, conceived solely as a reward for Vietnam's cooperation in Cambodia and on the P.O.W.-M.I.A. issue, asks for no democratic reforms from one of the world's most repressive systems. This is an abominable failure, given our special responsibility to address the plight of those who stood by the U.S. in the war.
Nor does the policy mention the 1973 Paris Peace Accords, signed by the Vietnamese Communists, which guaranteed that "the South Vietnamese people's right to self-determination is sacred, inalienable and shall be respected by all countries," and that they "shall decide themselves the future of Vietnam through genuinely free and democratic elections under international supervision."
U.S. policy avoids facing new economic realities. Economic power directly correlates with national security. Mr. Bush and others ignore that, and particularly its relevance to Japan's rise, at our collective peril.
It is estimated that within two decades Japan will have the world's strongest economy. It has achieved this growth by adopting an aggressive national strategy, spearheaded by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Defying conventional wisdom regarding the ill effects of protectionism, Japan has protected home markets and dumped products at reduced prices abroad, driving out -- and in many cases destroying -- domestic competition until the only products available are Japanese. Mr. Bush and his allies like to call this "free trade."
Furthermore, the radical devaluation of the dollar agreed on by the U.S. in 1985 has not altered our trade imbalance. Rather, it has allowed Japan, which imports all its oil, an incredible windfall: since oil is bought with dollars, cheaper dollars mean cheaper oil. In 1981, Japan spent more than 5 percent of its gross national product on oil. That figure has dropped to about 1 percent, allowing Japan billions of excess dollars to spend on American capital assets.
Mr. Bush and "free trade" economists debunk concerns about the Japanese buying trend, pointing out that it creates jobs -- no matter that the profits from our labor go back to Japan, where they can be used to purchase even more capital assets. In the old days they called this "colonialism."
To date, Mr. Bush has neither the strategy nor the will to address these inequities. If they are not addressed, we must accept a grave national truth: we have become so dependent on the Japanese for capital investment and in the financing of our debt that we have lost our ability to protect our long-term interests.
These issues beg for debate. And no Democrat is likely to unseat George Bush without taking them on.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); AIR FORCES (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); 

PERSON: WEBB, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JIM WEBB (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



45 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Who the Rich Are and What They Should Pay;
We Need Productivity

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We can all criticize our economy, but it's much more important to offer suggestions that will improve it. In that vein, I offer these: 
 * Set a sales-tax limit that a state may impose on the purchase of a new automobile. Make that limit a maximum of 3 percent. Let the sales tax be federally deductible for domestically produced vehicles and let the interest also be deductible. Auto production is one of the pillars of our economy, and let us stop strangling it.
* Our country can make cameras, videocassette recorders, television sets and compact disk players. Let us do for these industries what we did for real estate construction: let us give a tax abatement. Here is how it would work. If a company decides to produce a 35 millimeter camera or any other piece of electronic equipment not made in this country, and sets up a plant for that sole purpose, the profits for that product would be free of taxes for 20 years. If that is not satisfactory, devise a sliding scale of taxes over 20 years. We are getting no jobs and no taxes from these products now. Worse, our engineers are losing the manufacturing expertise required for these products.
* We have to get the real estate and construction market moving again. First thing is to increase the terms of mortgages from 30 years to 40 years for people who want it. Second, balloon mortgages should become more in vogue for younger couples; that is, for the first five years, there would be a lower payment, and then a higher payment for the next 35 years. Most important, home mortgage rates must be driven down.
We can drive mortgage rates down by taxing pension funds on their profits, unless they invest a certain percentage of their portfolio in residential and apartment construction. This would take money out of program trading and put it where it is needed. These funds would drive mortgage rates lower. There are plenty of buyers and tenants out there; the problem is they can't afford it.
The name of the game is productivity. Family leave, credit-card interest, rebuilding our infrastructure are all very nice. You cannot rebuild your infrastructure unless there are profits and income to tax. Family leave is great, but you have to have a job to get leave from.
We can get this economy moving again. It takes ideas and leadership. We have a country with the most abundant natural resources, we have a skilled and willing work force and a risk-taking entrepreneurial class. There are inventions and methods waiting for us these next 100 years that will make the last 100 years pale by comparison.
 
HYMAN JATKOFF
Albany, Nov. 18, 1991
 
The writer is director of engineering services, State University Construction Fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); ALBANY, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MORTGAGES; HOUSING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); WRITERS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); 

PERSON: JATKOFF, HYMAN

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



46 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 3; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: Japan and the U.S. Share an Uneasy Artistic Peace

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SHAPIRO; Michael Shapiro is the author of "Japan: In the Land of the Broken-Hearted."

 BODY:
From the bombing of Pearl Harbor to the purchase of Rockefeller Center, the relationship between the United States and Japan has been burdened with seminal moments. But one of the most revealing encounters took place not during combat or in a boardroom but on film.
The moment came in Ron Howard's 1986 movie, "Gung Ho," in which a Japanese car maker reopens an abandoned American plant. The Americans, unable to impress their Japanese employers, offer a deal: they will match the production record of their Japanese counterparts to keep the plant open. As they fairly kill themselves just to stay even, it becomes clear that nothing short of chicanery will help. Their shop steward confronts the austere company president, trying to make up for the missing cars with sheer enthusiasm. 
 There is a pause. Then, with words that tell more than any joint communique could about where matters now stand between America and Japan, the president looks at the shop steward and says: "I like you. You make me laugh."
Saturday is the 50th anniversary of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the event that first made Americans see Japan as a power and a threat. For all of the books explaining Japanese ways to Americans, and despite Japan's embrace of American pop culture, the relationship remains one of two peoples who see the world and their places in it in profoundly different ways. Between them stir accusations, threats and stereotypes -- geisha and samurai; violent crime and Mickey Mouse. And in the darkest moments, memories of Pearl Harbor and Hiroshima come to the surface.
If the arts -- especially film -- have perpetuated some of the worst stereotypes and the most naive images, they have also provided moments of clarity, when the real fears felt on both sides of the Pacific come to life. Dealing in the realm of emotion rather than policy, creative artists can offer glimpses into the passions at the heart of the relationship -- the contempt and pity many Japanese have come to feel toward the United States, the fear and mistrust that the idea of Japan now conjures for many Americans.
 
After the War
Stereotypes Hide Shifting Truths
 If the Japan portrayed in recent American films has a parallel, it is the America portrayed in Japanese films of the 1950's and 60's. Each nation is cast as an invader -- Japan, now, devouring American assets; America, then, imposing itself on occupied Japan.
In Shoei Imamura's "Pigs and Battleships" (1961), America was embodied by whoring servicemen, pouring off their ships in search of Japanese prostitutes. There were also the faceless Americans who ran over and killed a Japanese gangster in Masaki Kobayashi's "Black River" (1957) and the brutal G.I. who enlisted a temple novice to abort his Japanese girlfriend's pregnancy in Kon Ichikawa's "Conflagration" (1958).
"In the 1950's, all American characters were portrayed as conquerors," said Keiko MacDonald, a professor of Japanese history and film at the University of Pittsburgh. "This situation completely reversed in the 1970's."
Indeed, in Hiroshi Teshigahara's 1972 "Summer Soldiers," a product of a wealthier and more confident Japan, America was represented by Vietnam deserters who were offered refuge in Japan. By 1979, in Hiroshi Yamada's "Tora's Dream of Spring," an American -- lost, broke and in need of a mentor -- could be seen sitting at the knee of the classic Japanese film figure Tora-san, a love-lorn peddler. And in Masahiro Shinoda's 1984 "MacArthur's Children," Americans became well-meaning soldiers of the Occupation, losing at baseball to a team of determined Japanese schoolchildren.
Until recently, Americans, still convinced that the Japanese wanted only to be like them, were largely unaware of the change. Even as Japan grew more powerful, Tokyo's official attitude toward the United States remained one of unflagging admiration and fidelity. That the movies were saying something very different was consistent with the Japanese notion of truth, which exists on two levels: "tatemae," truth that is spoken, and "honnae," truth that is meant. Film reflected the essential truth seldom spoken.
Back when Japan was seeing an all-powerful America on film, America saw Mickey Rooney in "Breakfast at Tiffany's" (1961), with buckteeth and glasses, as the embodiment of the Japanese man. And in Woody Allen's "What's Up, Tiger Lily?" (1966), the voices in a Japanese film were replaced by those of American actors for comic effect. On Dec. 7, 1966, the 25th anniversary of Pearl Harbor, "What's Up, Tiger Lily?" was playing in New York.
By the time of "Gung Ho," two decades later, the shift in the essential truth of Japanese attitudes had become so apparent that an American director could show a group of Japanese hovering around a broken scale model of an automobile, laughing at the "American car."
For Americans, meanwhile, Japan has become the world that the lone New York cop played by Michael Douglas in Ridley Scott's 1989 "Black Rain" found so threatening and impenetrable. Mr. Scott's vision of Japan was one of neon and shadows and powerful men. An underworld boss menacingly told the American: "You shoved your values down our throat. We forgot who we were. I am paying you back."
Even when not so dark, the images could be telling. The young Japanese couple in Jim Jarmusch's "Mystery Train" (1989), for instance, trudged through Memphis oblivious to urban decay, searching for the spirit of Elvis Presley and the 1950's America that the young Japanese so cherish.
 
Images of the Present
Conflict, Blame And Paranoia
 In movie houses and theaters today, the encounter between Japan and America takes other forms. A wealthy Japanese man battles with a jobless American auto worker in Hi roaki Yoshida's new film "Iron Maze." A Japanese-American apologizes to his aging aunt for not knowing that her husband had been incinerated at Nagasaki in Akira Kurosawa's forthcoming film "Rhapsody in August." And a paranoid American becomes convinced that the Japanese businessman taking over his company was once his prison camp guard in Jill Shearer's play "Shimada," scheduled for New York this spring.
"Iron Maze," in particular, makes vivid the conflict and passions between two peoples. A wealthy Japanese man "buys" a moribund American steel town and dispatches his son, Junichi Sugita, to see what can be made of it. Sugita, tall and dapper, arrives in a white Mercedes-Benz convertible with his blond American wife. He wants to replace the mill with an amusement park. To the steelworkers, led by a man named Barry, Sugita becomes "the Jap."
"From Sugita's point of view, the steel mill is just heavy rusting iron," Mr. Yoshida said in a recent conversation. "It's something useless. He believes he's doing a very good thing for everybody. But for the American, Barry, his grandfather and father had the same job he did. The entire town worked in the mill. For him it's like a church, a holy place. He doesn't want Sugita to treat the mill like garbage. You can't say which one is right or wrong."
Nor can you be sure just what to make of the title character in "Shimada," said the play's director Simon Phillips. When the play opened in Australia in 1987, many critics regarded it as a warning of the Japanese economic invasion. But Mr. Phillips insisted that it is designed to let audiences make up their own minds about Japan today.
"Shimada," Mr. Phillips said, goes to the heart of both Australian and American perceptions of the Japanese -- that they remain elusive and, with their growing power, threatening. "This is a play about perceptions -- how a culture is perceived by a people who have no understanding. Because we can't make the sum add up, there will always be a sinister idea."
Mr. Kurosawa, for his part, offers in "Rhapsody in August" a picture of a sensitive American -- played by Richard Gere, speaking Japanese -- who appreciates the suffering of the Japanese people. And the director is quick to poke fun at the generation approaching middle age, those who still fawn over a wealthy American cousin.
But what rankles many Americans who have seen the film is Mr. Kurosawa's avoidance of the issue of blame. The aging aunt delivers a speech blaming the suffering of war's victims on war itself, as if war were a player and not an act of players. In reality, victims of Japanese aggression in World War II are left to wonder when the nation will accept responsibility for its most heinous wartime acts.
The war, of course, remains at the core of the encounter between Japan and America, from questions of responsibility and relative degrees of suffering to the troubling but inevitable comparisons now drawn in America between Japan's military expansion in the 1930's and its economic domination today. As many Japanese angrily ask how often they have to apologize for the war, many Americans contend that they have not done so even once.
 
A Way to the Future
Being Different, And Accepting It
 Still, there is a growing sense that the issue is at last being engaged through the arts -- although that is not always the case. "Esthetics is a way to paper over those conflicts," said Stefan Tanaka, a history professor at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. Mr. Tanaka's work involves American perceptions about Japanese art. He argued that too often curiosity has not extended beyond an appreciation of the myths two peoples see in one another -- myths born of the images found in their art.
"It's kind of like the Dr. Feelgood approach," he said. "You avoid the issue. It's a fake understanding. We believe that if we talk to each other, we'll understand."
If theater and movies offer, at least in America, a new and sometimes troubling view of where the two nations find themselves, they also offer glimpses of what could be. Among the entries at the New York Film Festival this fall was Alan Berliner's "Intimate Stranger," the story of his grandfather. An Egyptian Jew who settled unhappily in Brooklyn after the war, the grandfather set off for Japan, where he resumed a career as a middleman in the cotton trade. He would spend 11 months a year in Japan, working slavishly for his company and all but ignoring his family.
When Mr. Berliner went to Osaka to make his film, he found that his grandfather had been rewarded not with a great deal of money or with friendship. Instead, Mr. Berliner said, his grandfather was called "honorable special foreigner." He was different, and people cared for him deeply. He embraced his role and recognized that fundamentally he was not the same as the people around him. And though that did not bring him complete acceptance, it at least brought contentment.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A scene from Akira Kurosawa's film "Rhapsody in August" with, from left, Tomoko Ohtakara, Sachiko Murase and Hidetaka Yoshioka--avoiding the issue of blame (Orion Classics) (pg. 1); Hiroaki Murakami, foreground, as Junichi Sugita in "Iron Maze"--"the Jap," to American steelworkers (Edward R. Pressman/Oliver Stone); Michael Keaton, right, pulls his Japanese boss, Gedde Watanabe, back to shore in "Gung Ho"--a shift in postwar attitudes (Paramount Pictures) (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; WORLD WAR II (1939-45) WORLD WAR II (91%); FILM (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); VIOLENT CRIME (64%); MILITARY VESSELS (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, MICHAEL RON HOWARD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



47 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Focus: New Orleans;
Builders Betting on Riverboat Gambling

BYLINE: By LETTICE STUART

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS

 BODY:
BETTING people in the real estate community here think the odds are excellent that riverboat gambling, approved by the State Legislature in July, will spur development along the Mississippi River waterfront downtown.
The law stipulated that construction of the boats could not begin until January 1992, and the first boats are not expected to begin operating until late in 1993. Nevertheless, real estate brokers and developers already have begun to prepare for what they think will be a daily influx of thousands of visitors. 
 Iowa, Illinois, Missouri and Mississippi have also passed legislation authorizing legal riverboat gambling. So far, the boats are only operating off Illinois and Iowa.
The biggest winner of all here may be a long-time local developer, Joseph Canizaro. The month before the gambling bill was passed, he signed a contract to buy a prime piece of downtown riverfront property where several boats are expected to dock, and he closed on the deal in September.
Mr. Canizaro bought the 72-acre tract next to the New Orleans Convention Center for $11 million from the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company and Upland Industries Corporation, both subsidiaries of the Union Pacific Corporation. Since then, he said, he and his two partners, William Goldring and Coleman Adler, both of New Orleans, have received dozens of offers from people wanting the property for gaming-related purposes.
Mr. Canizaro said that a prominent national developer has offered twice the purchase price for the entire parcel and that several gaming companies have offered even more.
But the 54-year-old developer, who has helped shape the downtown skyline with six office and hotel towers in the last 20 years, said he wants to develop, not sell, the property. His master plan includes docking facilities for several riverboats, a park along the river's edge, restaurants, child-care facilities, one or two hotels, parking, residences and, possibly, an amphitheater.
First, however, Mr. Canizaro has to settle a dispute with the New Orleans Exhibition Hall Authority, which wants to expropriate 23 of the 72 acres to expand its 700,000-square-foot Convention Center. Mr. Canizaro contends the 400,000-square-foot addition can be built on a 10-acre site at the other end of the building.
"The city had ample opportunity to buy the property before I did and they just can't prove that they need it enough to expropriate it," Mr. Canizaro said.
Mr. Canizaro is not the only one hoping to rake in big winnings from riverboat gambling. City officials estimate that the floating casinos will add 10,000 jobs, increase visitor spending by up to $200 million a year -- not counting the $75 million to $100 million expected to be spent at the gaming tables -- and create a need for more hotel rooms, parking, restaurants, stores and housing.
The law limits gambling boats in the state to 15, with a maximum of 6 in any one parish. In Orleans Parish, one boat is expected to dock in the French Quarter and four or five more along a one-mile stretch in front of and near the Convention Center.
EACH boat, which will cost $30 million to $40 million to build, will be about 300 feet long and hold about 3,000 passengers. They will leave from downtown and cruise up and down the river for about three hours several times a day. There will be no sleeping accommodations, but the boats are expected to serve food and drinks.
The riverfront activity is expected to have an impact throughout the adjacent historic warehouse district.
"There's more going on now on the riverfront and in the warehouse district than anywhere else in the metropolitan area," said Robert F. Talbot, a real estate broker. "We have people flying into town almost daily from other states and even out of the country to look at property here."
Several projects, including hotels, nightclubs and condominiums, already are on the drawing board, he said. Among these is the conversion of an old warehouse into residential condominiums by two local developers, Henry Lambert and Carey Bond.
Although Mr. Talbot thinks property prices will escalate, he does not anticipate a repeat of the speculative frenzy of the early 80's, when the riverfront and surrounding area of dilapidated 19th-century warehouses was designated as the site of the 1984 Louisiana World Exposition.
At that time, prices for rundown warehouses skyrocketed from $8 to $10 a square foot to $30 to $35 a square foot. But after the six-month-long exhibition ended in bankruptcy, and the city's economy plummeted along with the energy industry, prices fell to $10 to $15 a square foot, where they remain today, he said.
Several of those warehouses have been renovated into apartments in the last seven years and now about 2,000 people live in the former industrial neighborhood. The area's 1,200 apartments are 98 percent occupied at monthly rentals of close to $1 a square foot. Both the occupancy and the rents are record highs for the city.
Some restaurants, shops and art galleries also have opened, but riverboat gambling is expected to significantly increase commercial development.
Pres Kabacoff, who, with a partner, Edward Boettner, has developed nearly 600 apartments in the warehouse district, expects riverboat gambling to increase the demand there. He said the average salaries of those working on the boats will be $20,000 a year. And many of them, he noted, will be working late hours and want safe, affordable housing nearby.
Hotel owners seem to be the one group worried about the prospect of new development. Some say they fear a repeat of the overbuilding that occurred before the 1984 exhibition, when eight luxury hotels with more than 4,000 rooms were built in a 12-block downtown area. The resulting glut, along with the city's economic downturn, sent hotel occupancy to a low of 52 percent in 1985. Today, occupancy rates at downtown hotels average 70 percent, just barely above the industry's break-even point.
"But we're certainly not at the point yet where we can support any new large projects and certainly not any more luxury hotels," said Ray Liuzza, part owner of the 368-room Doubletree Hotel on Canal Street near the river.
LAST September, Mr. Liuzza announced plans to build the city's first new hotel since 1984. However, the 150-room, $10 million "limited facility" hotel will have no restaurant or lounge and average room rates will be a moderate $76 a night. The decision to build the hotel was based on the property's prime location across the street from the Convention Center and had nothing to do with riverboat gambling, Mr. Liuzza said.
The hotel will be operated by Mr. Liuzza's company, the International Hotel Management Company, but he said that he is negotiating now with both Holiday Inn Express and the Hampton Inn chains and that the hotel eventually will be a franchise of one of those. Construction is scheduled to begin in January and take 10 months.
Only days after Mr. Liuzza disclosed his plans, two hoteliers, Patrick Quinn and Edwin Palmer, announced the reopening of the Lafayette Hotel on St. Charles Avenue, five blocks from the river. The 44-room hotel has been closed since 1986, when the previous owners ran into financial problems after spending $7 million renovating the former skid-row property into a luxury hotel.
Mr. Quinn said he and Mr. Palmer bought the hotel not because of riverboat gambling but "because we were able to pick it up for a steal."
They acquired a 52-year lease on the property from the Resolution Trust Corporation for about $650,000 and spent $350,000 on cosmetic improvements. "We now have spent $1 million and have a hotel worth at least three times that," he said.
Riverboat gambling will benefit existing hotels close to the river but won't create enough demand to build new ones, Mr. Quinn said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing of hotel to rise near New Orleans Convention Center. (Trapolin Architects)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (82%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ORLEANS (LA); LOUISIANA; MISSISSIPPI RIVER UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; BOATS AND BOATING GAMING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); CASINOS (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); CITIES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: STUART, LETTICE

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



48 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
Builders Betting on Riverboat Gambling

BYLINE: By LETTICE STUART

 BODY:
Betting people in the real estate community here think the odds are excellent that riverboat gambling, approved by the State Legislature in July, will spur development along the Mississippi River waterfront downtown.
The law stipulated that construction of the boats could not begin until January 1992, and the first boats are not expected to begin operating until late in 1993. Nevertheless, real estate brokers and developers already have begun to prepare for what they think will be a daily influx of thousands of visitors. 
 Iowa, Illinois, Missouri and Mississippi have also passed legislation authorizing legal riverboat gambling. So far, boats are operating only off Illinois and Iowa.
The biggest winner of all here may be a long-time local developer, Joseph Canizaro. The month before the gambling bill was passed, he signed a contract to buy a prime piece of downtown riverfront property where several boats are expected to dock, and he closed on the deal in September.
Mr. Canizaro bought the 72-acre tract next to the New Orleans Convention Center for $11 million from the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company and Upland Industries Corporation, both subsidiaries of the Union Pacific Corporation. Since then, he said, he and his two partners, William Goldring and Coleman Adler, both of New Orleans, have received dozens of offers from people wanting the property for gaming-related purposes.
Mr. Canizaro said that a prominent national developer has offered twice the purchase price for the entire parcel and that several gaming companies have offered even more.
But the 54-year-old developer, who has helped shape the downtown skyline with six office and hotel towers in the last 20 years, said he wants to develop, not sell, the property. His master plan includes docking facilities for several riverboats, a park along the river's edge, restaurants, child-care facilities, one or two hotels, parking, residences and, possibly, an amphitheater.
First, however, he has to settle a dispute with the New Orleans Exhibition Hall Authority, which wants to expropriate 23 of the 72 acres to expand its 700,000-square-foot Convention Center. Mr. Canizaro contends the 400,000-square-foot addition can be built on a 10-acre site at the other end of the building.
"The city had ample opportunity to buy the property before I did and they just can't prove that they need it enough to expropriate it," Mr. Canizaro said.
Mr. Canizaro is not the only one hoping to rake in big winnings from riverboat gambling. City officials estimate that the floating casinos will add 10,000 jobs, increase visitor spending by up to $200 million a year -- not counting the $75 million to $100 million expected to be spent at the gaming tables -- and create a need for more hotel rooms, parking, restaurants, stores and housing.
The law limits gambling boats in the state to 15, with a maximum of 6 in any one parish. In Orleans Parish, one boat is expected to dock in the French Quarter and four or five more along a one-mile stretch in front of and near the Convention Center.
The boats will cost $30 million to $40 million to build, be about 300 feet long and hold about 3,000 passengers. They will leave from downtown and cruise up and down the river for about three hours several times a day. There will be no sleeping accommodations, but food and drinks probably will be served.
The riverfront activity is expected to have an impact throughout the adjacent historic warehouse district.
"There's more going on now on the riverfront and in the warehouse district than anywhere else in the metropolitan area," said Robert F. Talbot, a real estate broker. "We have people flying into town almost daily from other states and even out of the country to look at property here."
Several projects, including hotels, nightclubs and condominiums, already are on the drawing board, he said. Among these is the conversion of an old warehouse into residential condominiums by two local developers, Henry Lambert and Carey Bond.
Although Mr. Talbot thinks property prices will escalate, he does not anticipate a repeat of the speculative frenzy of the early 80's, when the riverfront and surrounding area of dilapidated 19th-century warehouses was designated as the site of the 1984 Louisiana World Exposition.
At that time, prices for rundown warehouses skyrocketed from $8 to $10 a square foot to $30 to $35. But after the six-month-long exhibition ended in bankruptcy, and the city's economy plummeted along with the energy industry, prices fell to $10 to $15 a square foot, where they remain today, he said.
Several of those warehouses have been renovated into apartments in the last seven years and now about 2,000 people live in the former industrial neighborhood. The area's 1,200 apartments are 98 percent occupied at monthly rentals of close to $1 a square foot. Both the occupancy and the rents are record highs for the city.
Some restaurants, shops and art galleries also have opened, but riverboat gambling is expected to significantly increase commercial development.
Pres Kabacoff, who, with a partner, Edward Boettner, has developed nearly 600 apartments in the warehouse district, expects riverboat gambling to increase the demand there. He said the average salaries of those working on the boats will be $20,000 a year. And many of them, he noted, will be working late hours and want safe, affordable housing nearby.
Hotel owners seem to be the one group worried about the prospect of new development. Some say they fear a repeat of the overbuilding that occurred before the 1984 exhibition, when eight luxury hotels with more than 4,000 rooms were built in a 12-block downtown area. The resulting glut, along with the city's economic downturn, sent hotel occupancy to a low of 52 percent in 1985. Today, occupancy rates at downtown hotels average 70 percent, just barely above the industry's break-even point.
"But we're certainly not at the point yet where we can support any new large projects and certainly not any more luxury hotels," said Ray Liuzza, part owner of the 368-room Doubletree Hotel on Canal Street near the river.
Last September, Mr. Liuzza announced plans to build the city's first new hotel since 1984. However, the 150-room, $10 million "limited facility" hotel will have no restaurant or lounge and average room rates will be a moderate $76 a night. The decision to build the hotel was based on the property's prime location across the street from the Convention Center and had nothing to do with riverboat gambling, Mr. Liuzza said.
The hotel will be operated by Mr. Liuzza's company, the International Hotel Management Company, but he said that he is negotiating now with both Holiday Inn Express and the Hampton Inn chains and that the hotel eventually will be a franchise of one of those. Construction is scheduled to begin in January and take 10 months.
Only days after Mr. Liuzza disclosed his plans, two hoteliers, Patrick Quinn and Edwin Palmer, announced the reopening of the Lafayette Hotel on St. Charles Avenue, five blocks from the river. The 44-room hotel has been closed since 1986, when the previous owners ran into financial problems after spending $7 million renovating the former skid-row property into a luxury hotel.
Mr. Quinn said he and Mr. Palmer bought the hotel not because of riverboat gambling but "because we were able to pick it up for a steal."
They acquired a 52-year lease on the property from the Resolution Trust Corporation for about $650,000 and spent $350,000 on cosmetic improvements. "We now have spent $1 million and have a hotel worth at least three times that," he said.
Riverboat gambling will benefit existing hotels close to the river but won't create enough demand to build new ones, Mr. Quinn said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: View of riverfront property purchased by Joseph Canizaro. (David G. Spielman for The New York Times)
 
Drawing of hotel to rise near New Orleans Convention Center. (Trapolin Architects)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (82%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ORLEANS (LA) UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; GAMBLING; MISSISSIPPI RIVER; BOATS AND BOATING REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); GAMING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); CASINOS (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); CITIES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: STUART, LETTICE

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



49 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: The Importance of Being Hirschfeld

BYLINE: By Terrence McNally; Terrence McNally's most recent play is "Lips Together, Teeth Apart."

 BODY:

HIRSCHFELD
Art and Recollections
From Eight Decades.
By Al Hirschfeld.
Introduction by
Alistair Cooke.
Illustrated. 306 pp. New York:
Charles Scribner's Sons. $50.  
 The Colleen Dewhurst I will always remember is to be found on page 252 of this exhaustive, but never exhausting, retrospective of Al Hirschfeld's drawings -- from his 1926 Sacha Guitry to Jonathan Pryce in last season's "Miss Saigon." Not only has the artist drawn Dewhurst in what proved to be her last Broadway appearance, as Essie Miller in Eugene O'Neill's "Ah, Wilderness!," but he has also got down on paper the very essence of one of the Broadway theater's greatest actresses, who died on Aug. 22. This is no sketch of an actress in a role. It is her biography as an artist. Looking at Al Hirschfeld's Colleen's Essie, one can also see and remember her Josie Hogan in "A Moon for the Misbegotten" or her Miss Amelia in "The Ballad of the Sad Cafe."
It's all there in the brief, quick Hirschfeld lines: the physical details of that strong face and powerful torso; the inner life that would swell to the surface and overwhelm us; the very soul of the actress, a soul she so generously shared with us play after play after play. Here, for all time, is that smile that lighted up a theater so that people in the last reaches of the second balcony could bask in it. Here forever are the eyes that crinkled with an inner radiance that made you feel more alive just to be in the same theater with her. And here again is that low, omni-celloed, contrabassooned voice to break your heart anew. Yes, you can actually hear Mr. Hirschfeld's Dewhurst. You don't even have to close your eyes. Quite the opposite: open them wide and just listen. You'll hear her again, only this time forever. An extravagant claim? I think not for anyone who saw Dewhurst or knows the extraordinary work of this visual chronicler of the American theater for nearly 65 years. I have seen thousands of photographs of an actress named Colleen Dewhurst. Some of them even look like her. But Mr. Hirschfeld's portrait is the only one that tells me something like the truth about what it was like to experience her in the theater.
No one "writes" more accurately of the performing arts than Al Hirschfeld. He accomplishes on a blank page with his pen and ink in a few strokes what many of us need a lifetime of words to say. He gets to the essence of his subject with an economy that should be the envy of most wordsmiths. For six decades he has been one of the theater's best journalists. I put him on a level with Kenneth Tynan and Walter Kerr, two writers of my experience who helped me see and hear performances I never attended. Much has been written about the transitory nature of the performing arts, especially the theater. Those performers lucky enough to have been captured by Mr. Hirschfeld's pen have escaped some sort of oblivion and become, instead, icons of the performing moment.
You have only to look at Mr. Hirschfeld's drawings of Ray Bolger in fantastic motion in "Where's Charley?" to feel you know more about that great dancer's performing style than any book or reminiscing elder could tell you. No wonder the ultimate accolade in the New York theatrical community has always been to be the subject of "a Hirschfeld." I know actors who would trade in their Tonys for a Hirschfeld. Fame is fleeting. A Hirschfeld is not. The fact that his name has become a noun should tell you something about the high regard in which his subjects hold him. I have even heard his name used as a verb. "I've been Hirschfelded!" a young actress excitedly told me in her dressing room. While I winced at her grammar, I celebrated her first hold on some sort of immortality.
The pleasures of "Hirschfeld: Art and Recollections From Eight Decades" are multiple. Mr. Hirschfeld as a writer on his art is as astute and to the bone as he is as a draftsman. His brief foreword gives us a clear statement of his goals and an illuminating discussion of drawing as the art of pure line in black and white. This is writing from the heart, humble and eminently understandable. If you are like me, you can count on one hand the number of artists or critics who write anything remotely intelligible to the layman about the visual arts. They are keepers of some secret flame. Not Mr. Hirschfeld. He gives us his "secrets," such as they are, plain and simple. I actually learned something reading Mr. Hirschfeld on the art of Hirschfeld.
There is also brief autobiographical material. Just enough to let us feel closer to the artist without knowing his secrets, if any, as a man. The origins of the now famous "Ninas," the name of his daughter hidden several places in each drawing since one Sunday in 1945, are revealed at last, as well as the episode when he included the name of his daughter's friend Lisa and he and his wife, the actress Dolly Haas, were inundated with congratulations on their new child.
Mr. Hirschfeld's full-blown mature style, the one by which we happily recognize him on lucky Sundays when his latest work appears in The New York Times, was reached in 1933, only seven years after his first published drawing, in a composite panel titled "Five Shows Currently on the Boards." The style is clearly his and the figures are easily identified. Ina Claire in "Biography" is all bobbed hair and swooping profile; Alla Nazimova in "The Good Earth" is more remote and mysterious (and looks more like Alla Nazimova) than she appeared in any film; Judith Anderson in "The Mask and the Face" is grand and tragic, a true presence, even in a pen-and-ink profile. It is hard not to feel nostalgic while looking at these theater drawings from over 50 years ago. Not just for the performers that are no longer with us (they live on in their Hirschfelds) but for the sheer abundance of plays and players, musicals and singers and dancers that were once Broadway.
There is an almost-Cubist, quasi-Constructivist Ethel Waters from 1927 that you will not recognize as a Hirschfeld. There are several experiments in style in the first few years of published drawings. The Sacha Guitry has the feel of a Gordon Craig woodcut. Harry Lauder is the work of someone who has seen Picabia. But these are the exceptions in this collection of an artist who seems to have known who he was and what he wanted to do and then to have set about doing it from his mid-20's until just last Sunday. There is not much "growth" in Mr. Hirschfeld's work; it doesn't get better and better. It hasn't declined in quality or become mannered in execution. He can't repeat himself, because his work is about the person he is drawing, not about himself. A Hirschfeld Streisand or Carol Channing or Katharine Hepburn is about the woman herself, not the artist's opinion of her.
Mr. Hirschfeld is never cruel. One cannot even mention him in the same breath as one does a savage drama critic. One draws what he sees; the other tells us how he feels about what he sees. One is called art, the other criticism. I never knew an actress to say she "dreaded" a Hirschfeld. His work is born of love, respect and enthusiasm for the performer. It celebrates and makes permanent the most transient moments of the theater: the performer and performance themselves. We who work in the theater are challenged every Sunday to live up to Mr. Hirschfeld. He has more than lived up to us.
I have never heard this distinguished artist referred to by anything but his last name. He is never "Al" but always "Hirschfeld." I would like to add a "Mr." to that. At age 88, and after a collection as magnificent as this one, he has, like Mr. George Abbott, earned it. Since this is a volume that will be on many people's Christmas lists, this is as good a time as any to say: "Merry Christmas, Mr. Hirschfeld, and thank you for your life's work and much gratitude for reminding us that what we mortals do up there on a stage is important. At times when working in the theater seems impossible and friendless and ignoble, there is always the possibility we will be 'Hirschfelded' for our labors. Hope springs eternal in the theatrical breast. Your work celebrates achievement. This collection celebrates you."

GRAPHIC: Drawings by Al Hirschfeld of Colleen Dewhurst in "Ah, Wilderness!," 1988; Carol Channing in "Hello, Dolly!," 1964; Ethel Merman in "Stars in Your Eyes," 1939; Mary Martin in "South Pacific," 1949.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: HIRSCHFELD: ART AND RECOLLECTIONS FROM EIGHT DECADES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WRITERS (88%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); 

PERSON: MCNALLY, TERRENCE; HIRSCHFELD, AL ALBERT 'AL' HIRSCHFELD (97%); ALFRED ALISTAIR COOKE (74%); CHARLES SCRIBNER JR (74%); COLLEEN DEWHURST (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



50 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: PRESS;
Newspaper Jobs Vanishing As Advertising Disappears

BYLINE: By Alex S. Jones

 BODY:
IN the last 18 months, employment in the nation's newspaper industry has fallen on a scale probably not seen since the worst days of the Depression.
And a recent survey of newspaper executives by Alex. Brown & Sons, a Baltimore investment firm, suggests that more jobs may be lost because the Christmas advertising season looks "pretty grim" and that even a mild recovery is not expected to come any sooner than well into 1992. 
 While there have been periodic stretches of hard times for newspapers when advertising fell off, they have not led to widespread layoffs, employee buyouts and job freezes. For instance, the total number of newspaper jobs continued to grow from 1980 to 1985, despite the recession in the early 1980's.
"This one is a whole new story," said David J. Eisen, research and information director of the Newspaper Guild, who said his union had lost nearly 10 percent of its jobs since the middle of last year. The Guild represents mostly news, advertising and business-office workers at 140 newspapers and about 60 other news organizations.
After World War II, the number of jobs generated by newspapers has grown virtually without interruption. Indeed, newspaper jobs hit an all-time high of 479,000 in June 1990.
Advertising has since taken a nosedive and revenues declined sharply at many papers. To shore up profit margins, costs are being cut and jobs eliminated at many papers.
From June 1990 through September of this year, total newspaper employment has declined by more than 20,000 jobs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The number of jobs lost could easily go significantly higher. There was a flurry of announcements of newspaper layoffs and employee buyouts in October and November, and more jobs are certain to be lost. For instance, The Baltimore Sun recently asked for volunteers to leave the paper with an attractive severance package, and warned of layoffs if not enough employees came forward.
Other newspapers that have been reducing their work forces this year include The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe and The San Francisco Examiner.
Not surprisingly, the squeeze has been especially punishing for those seeking a first job in journalism.
Nearly 16 percent of those graduating in 1990 with majors in news and editorial studies said last fall that they were without a job, according to Gerald M. Kosicki, an assistant professor at the Ohio State University School of Journalism, who tracks employment of journalism school graduates. About half that percent were without jobs in 1989. Mr. Kosicki said the 1991 graduates were probably faring worst of all.
"We know anecdotally that it has been very tough this year on our June graduates," Mr. Kosicki said.
Cornelius F. Foote, minority affairs director for the American Society of Newspaper Editors, said many newspapers seemed to be taking pains to keep employees who are black, Hispanic, Asian and American Indian.
Newspapers have been under pressure to increase the representation of minorities on their news staffs, so the papers have apparently been extremely reluctant to lose the minority employees they have.
With overall employment going down, newspapers may be actually increasing the percentage of their minority employment, which totaled 8.7 percent of news staffs last year, by simply keeping the same number of minority positions.
But new jobs for minority journalists are scarce, and at minority-oriented job fairs -- down to 8 this year from 12 in 1990 -- most papers are offering only temporary internships.
Alex. Brown & Sons surveyed executives at nearly 200 papers regarding their economic expectations, and the findings are hardly encouraging.
"The Christmas season is expected to be dreadful," reported Kenneth T. Berents, who conducted the survey in October. He noted that two-thirds of the newspapers polled expected advertising levels below last year's.
The pattern is similar in all parts of the country. Newspaper executives were relatively optimistic about advertising when surveyed in January and grew steadily more pessimistic in surveys in July, April and October.
For instance, papers in the Northeast project retail advertising to decline by 7.2 percent this year from 1990 levels, and classified advertising to be down 10.8 percent. In January, papers in this region were projecting a retail ad decline of 2.7 percent and a classified ad drop of 5.8 percent.
Newspapers in California and the Southwest said in October that they expected 1991's retail ads to be down 5.2 percent and classified ads to be off 7 percent. In January, their predictions were relatively rosy -- a decline in retail ads of less than 1 percent and a 2.2 percent decline in classified.
Newspaper executives have also grown more pessimistic about when business will begin to improve.
About 68 percent said they expected the turnaround, albeit a mild one, to come in 1992. But 28 percent of the executives said they saw no recovery before 1993. In the July survey, only 13 percent thought they would have to wait that long.
For newspapers, the only silver lining in such glum projections is the belief that the industry will emerge leaner and ready for battle when the economy turns.
"As painful as it is right now, the newspaper industry will come out of this period tougher and more competitive than ever," said Cathleen Black, president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association.
But for now, the prospects of better days at an uncertain time in the future is cold comfort.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (63%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (58%); SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (52%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ADVERTISING; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); LABOR; NEWSPAPERS LAYOFFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (70%); STATISTICS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (61%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%); WORLD WAR II (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



51 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Item Pricing Benefits Markets and Consumers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Nov. 18 report on the new battle over item pricing of groceries in New York State overlooks the most important issue. The average customer regularly purchases many items, perhaps from more than one store. These items typically have odd prices -- "two for $3.79" and such. The only way most customers can observe a price change is to compare the sticker on the new item with the sticker on the empty package it replaces. Few people are likely to save and compare cash register receipts. 
 Although sellers would like to escape the principle, free markets work for the consumer only when there is price competition. If customers do not generally know when a price rises or falls, there is no incentive for sellers to cut prices and no barrier to price increases every few months.
The main beneficiaries of hidden price changes are not grocery stores, who do compete with one another, but the sellers of leading brands who administer price increases to one and all. Displays of prices and price changes serve both markets and consumers.
 
ART HILGART
Kalamazoo, Mich., Nov. 18, 1991
 
The writer is an economist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUPERMARKETS; LABELING AND LABELS; FOOD; PRICES PRICE INCREASES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FOOD LABELING (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



52 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Coffee Pricing Meeting Set

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
Coffee growing countries will meet again this week to discuss proposals to stabilize prices.
Coffee importers and exporters that belong to the 73-nation International Coffee Organization will hold a round of exploratory talks on a possible new coffee agreement in London. 
 On Monday, Colombia will try to win support for a proposal matching exportable supply to import demand, said Nestor Osorio, Colombia's representative to the International Coffee Organization.
The proposal would regulate imports by requiring producing countries to keep output higher than predicted demand. Each country would be assigned an amount to be retained and the volume it could export.
But delegates to the talks said they doubted whether Colombia's plan would succeed. They said it was still not clear whether Brazil would cooperate.
Colombia, the world's second-biggest producer, urgently wants to reach an agreement to bring the coffee market back under international control. Mr. Osorio said the nation was concerned about the economic damage being done by low prices.
Supplies were regulated until July 1989, when the coffee market abandoned a system of export quotas because producing countries could not agree on an extension into the 1990's.
Delegates said the 25-nation Inter-African Coffee Organization also intended to present proposals this week, while the United States could also put forward ideas it circulated informally last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (95%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: COFFEE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET COFFEE (97%); COFFEE MARKETS (92%); COFFEE & TEA (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); COFFEE FARMING (79%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



53 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Survey Sees No Hiring Gain

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Dec. 1

 BODY:
The hiring outlook for the first quarter of 1992 is flat, suggesting that the United States economy is growing but very slowly, Manpower Inc. reported today.
In its quarterly hiring survey of 15,000 businesses, the temporary employment agency said 15 percent plan to add workers in the first quarter and 15 percent plan reductions. 
 The zero gain is more promising than the 1 percent decline projected in the first quarter of 1991.
Net hiring gains are projected for the business sectors that employ 60 percent of all American workers: the manufacture of durable and nondurable goods, services and finance, insurance and real estate.
Lower employment is expected in construction, transportation and public utilities, public administration and education, the survey found.
Wholesale and retail trades forecast a significant seasonal hiring decline after the Christmas season. But conditions appear stable on a seasonally adjusted basis, with a stronger outlook than a year ago.
Regionally, businesses in the Northeast and the West expect a net hiring decline. A net hiring gain is forecast for the South, and the Midwest outlook matches the flat national trend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MANPOWER INC MANPOWERGROUP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANPOWER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET RECRUITMENT & HIRING (94%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (88%); SEASONAL WORKERS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); TRENDS (88%); DURABLE GOODS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); CHRISTMAS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



54 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Expressing Tempered Optimism For Holiday Season

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Although shoppers turned out in greater numbers than expected over the Thanksgiving weekend and sales in many stores seemed better than retailers anticipated, merchants around the country expressed only a tempered optimism yesterday about the holiday season.
Most said they would be hard pressed to achieve sales increases of 3 to 5 percent over last year, increases that would barely exceed the rate of inflation. 
 And those modest gains would be from the depressed levels of the last two holiday seasons, which were among the worst on record.
Strikingly, many merchants who normally insist that everything is coming up roses in the face of even the worst prognostications, are more circumspect this year.
At R. H. Macy & Company, for example, sales were up 8 percent from last year for the full week of Thanksgiving, said Edward S. Finkelstein, Macy's chairman and chief executive. But despite that relatively good showing, Mr. Finkelstein said yesterday that he was disappointed.
"Considering the efforts we have made in terms of promotions and the Thanksgiving Day parade, I thought we'd do a little better," he said.
At Younkers, a regional department store chain based in Des Moines and owned by the Equitable of Iowa Companies, the chairman, Thomas Gould, said: "We had strong sales earlier in the week, and I'd like to think that trend would continue through Christmas. But we planned for a difficult Christmas, and we're prepared for it."
In the Midwest, bad weather cut short a spate of spending last week. Mr. Gould said the ice and snow had forced him to close a few stores on Friday.
Younkers's sales on Friday and Saturday dropped 4 percent compared with last year's, he said, after surging 13 percent in the three days before Thanksgiving.
"The trend had been going up before the bad weather hit," Mr. Gould said. "It seemed as if we had some unexpected momentum."
If the weather caused some stalls in sales, many retailers welcomed the snow, frigid temperatures and ice. Sales of coats, sweaters, boots and other cold-weather gear, which had languished during two mild winters, suddenly took off, Mr. Gould and others said.
The department store divisions of the Dayton Hudson Corporation reported sales increases averaging about 15 percent over the weekend, despite a storm that dumped more than a foot of snow on the company's home turf in Minnesota. While Dayton's department stores suffered a sharp drop in business because of the storm, the company reported an unexpectedly large crowd of shoppers in its Hudson's stores, situated primarily in Michigan.
Kenneth A. Macke, the chairman of Dayton Hudson, said promotions, advertised specials and price reductions were driving consumer spending. Shoppers stood in line for two hours, for example, to see a Pinocchio exhibit in one Dayton's auditorium, he added.
Mr. Macke predicted Dayton Hudson would probably post a 3 to 5 percent sales increase for the holiday season. "Despite all the pessimistic forecasts we're seeing, I think when it's all over, the sleigh will have arrived and Santa will have alighted," Mr. Macke said.
 
Shorter Holiday Season
 Traditionally, the holiday sales season begins the day after Thanksgiving and ends on Christmas Eve. Because Thanksgiving fell late this year, some shoppers may have started buying gifts earlier in the week.
But however strong their sales were before the season officially opened, the shorter selling period has increased the anxiety of retailers.
"What retailers have to try to do is put 300 pounds of wheat into a 200-pound sack, and that's not so easy," said Clark A. Johnson, chairman of Pier 1 Imports Inc., a chain of stores based in Fort Worth that sells housewares, furniture and apparel.
Haunted by memories of the two Christmases past, when an overabundance of goods ate into profit margins, merchants have cut back their inventories. They have reduced the number of part-time workers they hire for the holiday season, using the money they save on salaries to increase the enticements to shoppers.
 
Careful Planning at Sears
 At Sears, Roebuck & Company, the nation's second-largest retailer after Wal-Mart, Matt Howard, senior vice president for marketing, told The Associated Press, "We planned for a difficult environmment, planned for consumer confidence to remain low, and we were aggressive going in."
Mr. Howard said shoppers responded well to products advertised during the film "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial" on CBS Thanksgiving night and on the Telemundo Spanish-language network on Friday. Sales of Sega and Nintendo video games and wide-screen televisions, all of which were advertised during the movie, were brisk over the weekend, he said.
But some of the efforts that retailers have made to insulate themselves from a poor showing may lock them into a Catch-22 situation, said Stephanie Shern, national director of retail services for the accounting firm Ernst & Young.
 
Popular Items Selling Out
 Many merchants are already finding stocks of popular items depleted, eliminating any further sales opportunities. A pair of men's slippers advertised on Nov. 21 by F. R. Tripler, the men's haberdashery owned by the Hartmarx Corporation, was sold out two days later.
At Dayton Hudson's Target stores, an $80 string of ornaments that plays Christmas carols, called Santa's Marching Band, sold out by the end of the weekend.
"It becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy," Ms. Shern said. "Things are bad, so the retailer puts his goods on sale, and the customer holds out for bigger markdowns."
Reports of exceedingly low consumer confidence on the eve of Thanksgiving did not help calm jittery merchants.
"Consumers are reticent and anxious about their futures," Mr. Finkelstein of Macy said. "All the news about that reinforces everyone's worries, and there's going to be a real retailing push to overcome that."
 
Macy's Enticements
 Like many stores, Macy's spent millions of dollars on enticements to draw stubbornly stingy shoppers into its stores. Now, its executives are holding their breath, waiting to see whether their efforts will pay off. Mr. Finkelstein attributed Macy's gains to television advertising and strong sales in household goods and cosmetics.
Those consumers who were out buying this weekend showed a marked preference for traditional merchandise and items that could be used at home, from devices that toast sandwiches to sweatsuits and other clothes suitable for relaxing around the house.
"People are hanging out at home more, instead of going out to bars and restaurants for entertainment, so they're buying things they use in the home," said Teri Kula, a spokeswoman for the K Mart Corporation.
 
K Mart's Best Sellers
 She said before the weekend that K Mart was doing an unexpectedly brisk business in board games like Monopoly and Scrabble. Items like home security devices and cordless drills and ratchets were also popular, as was a gadget that cuts potatoes into corkscrew curls. Shoppers also bought in-line roller skates, basketball backboards, bicycle safety helmets and Carioci stereo systems, which give budding pop stars the opportunity to sing along with recorded music.
Regardless of price, holiday decorations, ornaments and other tree trimmings and merchandise adorned with Christmas motifs were best sellers. "Some of the research and focus groups we did earlier this year suggested that this was going to be a stay-at-home Christmas, so I think people are getting back in stock on things they might not have used in awhile," Mr. Johnson of Pier 1 said.
He said that sales at Pier 1 stores open at least a year rose an average of about 5 percent for the weekend and that he expected similar sales increases for the entire holiday season.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Because Thanksgiving fell late in the month this year, the traditional holiday sales season will be shorter, increasing the anxiety of retailers. On Friday, shoppers viewed displays at Bloomingdale's. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (93%); TGT (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (70%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY, R H, & CO INC MACY'S INC (93%); TARGET CORP (85%); EQUITABLE OF IOWA COS (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACY, R H, & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (70%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOLIDAY TRADE; FORECASTS RETAILERS (93%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); THANKSGIVING (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); WEATHER (89%); TRENDS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); BOTTLED WATER & ICE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INFLATION (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (67%); EXECUTIVES (53%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE W THOMAS GOULD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



55 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: McDonnell's Rich Taiwanese Backer

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Nov. 27

 BODY:
In a nook on the 29th floor of a new office building in this city is a two-month-old company whose 40 employees scribble memos, hold meetings and receive guests but have not yet manufactured a single product. Now the novice company is raising eyebrows, and a few tempers, with a plan to pay as much as $2 billion for a large chunk of the McDonnell Douglas Corporation.
The Taiwan Aerospace Corporation is no fly-by-night operation, but rather the high-priority venture of a Government with $76 billion in foreign-exchange reserves, more than any other nation. The prospect of Taiwan's buying a major interest in McDonnell, the largest American manufacturer of civilian aircraft after the Boeing Company, is a sign that this island's economy is coming of age and entering the world of international partnerships and investments. 
 In mid-November, Taiwan Aerospace signed a tentative agreement to buy 40 percent of McDonnell Douglas's ailing commercial aircraft operations for $2 billion. Opposition from some Government officials both in Taiwan and the United States has raised questions about whether the deal will go through, and, if so, on what terms. But many experts expect the plan to set the tone for a growing number of Taiwanese companies to go on shopping sprees in the United States.
"Before, we were lightweights; and 10 years ago, McDonnell Douglas wouldn't pay any attention to us," said Hei Youlong, a private consultant who follows the military industry. "The future trend is that Europe and the United States will start to listen to Taiwan's requests."
Taiwan apparently sees the McDonnell Douglas deal as a way to propel itself to the fore of the global aerospace industry. It ultimately aims to forge an Asiawide consortium, revolving around Taiwan and McDonnell, to build commercial aircraft for the region and the world.
"I think it's a brilliant stroke for them," said Peter Kurz, managing director at Baring Securities Taiwan Ltd. While there may be better sources of technology than McDonnell, he said, Taiwan has few practical alternatives for promoting its own industry.
Taiwan Aerospace intends to shift some production of crucial aircraft parts like wings and fuselages from the United States to Taiwan to learn manufacturing skills.
"With limited experience, the best way to enter the business would be to find a good partner who has been in the business for some time, like McDonnell Douglas," said Denny R. S. Ko, the president of Taiwan Aerospace. "The aerospace industry in general is very expensive."
 
Executive With U.S. Experience
 Mr. Ko, a jovial 51-year-old executive who was born in China and educated in the United States, has been so busy these days that lunches consist of noodle soup at his desk. He has never built planes before, but he worked at the Northrop Corporation and McDonnell Douglas, then established a high-technology consulting firm in California before coming back to Taiwan to establish Microelectronics Technolgy Inc., a maker of portable satellite-communications stations.
The roots of the McDonnell proposal lie in the Government's long efforts to nurture a civilian aerospace industry. One analyst here estimates that about 30 Taiwanese companies are involved in aerospace, in addition to Government-operated units that produce a spectrum of military products from small airplanes to missiles. Taiwan has made an air force trainer and labored for years on its own jet fighter, a prototype of which crashed in a recent test flight.
One factor that remains in Taiwan's favor is a strong and growing supply of engineers and skilled workers. Two years ago the Government dipped into a large pool of engineers and aerospace scientists educated and employed in the United States, recruiting a number of them to return home to help Taiwan expand its own aerospace industry. That, in part, was how Taiwan Aerospace came about.
 
Overture Was Made Last Year
 About a year ago, still without a company name, the nascent Taiwan Aerospace approached McDonnell Douglas about entering some form of cooperation. The Taiwanese start-up was also talking with other aerospace companies, signing 36 memorandums of understanding -- although none of the others have come to fruition yet.
Taiwan Aerospace was officially established on Sept. 27, and much of its current staff, including its chairman, David Huang, formally came aboard. Mr. Huang had worked at Rockwell International for more than two decades before returning to Taiwan to head a military research organization that had been developing the jet fighter.
For McDonnell Douglas, a major incentive is simple: cash. The company is planning to develop the MD-12, a wide-bodied jet that could carry about 600 passengers nonstop from East Asia to New York, and it needs help paying the development costs.
 
McDonnell Seeks Asian Presence
 But the American company will also receive a valuable Asian connection. "McDonnell Douglas is not only looking for the money," said Yang Shih-chien, director general of Taiwan's Industrial Development Bureau, a division of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. "The main goal is to get a higher market share in this region."
An Asiawide consortium comparable to the group that makes Airbus jetliners in Europe is an attractive notion for some people in aerospace because the Pacific, one of the fastest-growing markets for new aircraft, has no major manufacturer of commercial planes. While McDonnell Douglas has also apparently made overtures to companies in Japan, South Korea and Singapore, only the Taiwan proposal seems to hold promise so far.
Some officials in both Washington and Taipei have criticized the deal. Among American worries are the potential loss of commercial aerospace production to Asia, which might harm one of the most important industries in which the United States enjoys an overwhelming advantage. Some Taiwanese critics, meantime, worry that the Government is paying too much for too little technology.
"We don't believe there will be any technology transfer," said Tsay Fun-dow, a Taiwanese legislator with a background in jet propulsion engineering. "All McDonnell Douglas needs is capital. Why should they give us technology?"
 
The Military Technology Issue
 Although the purchase does not involve military programs at McDonnell -- the United States' largest military contractor -- Taiwan might also hope to gain skills useful in its military aerospace efforts. The United States, which maintains formal diplomatic relations with China but not with Taiwan, has withheld the sale of sophisticated military technology to the Taiwanese, particularly the F-16 fighter and powerful engines.
The Taiwanese deny that they are looking for any military payoff from the deal, and McDonnell Douglas has been careful to keep its civilian operations -- the purview of the corporation's Douglas Aircraft Company of Long Beach, Calif. -- separate from its military work.
"We didn't really talk about the military side," said Yang Shih-chien, director general of the Industrial Development Bureau. "It is very natural for people to have that kind of expectation, but it is not an issue included in this deal."
 
Other Criticisms
 Critics have also questioned whether McDonnell's unprofitable commercial aircraft business can be turned around even with $2 billion, and they point to an increasingly competitive market that may not be able to accommodate a relatively small manufacturer behind Boeing and Airbus Industrie.
Others suggest that Taiwan build its aerospace industry from the bottom up, tailoring it to Taiwan's strengths, rather than buying into a mature company that might not fit neatly into Taiwan's economy.
Part of the criticism of the current plan stems from Taiwan's history of developing industries through cooperation with foreign partners. Many people cite the experience of the automobile industry a decade ago, when Taiwan hoped that a deal with General Motors would someday make the nation a significant exporter of cars. Taiwan still does not produce a car of export quality, although it has a substantial industry in making spare parts and components.
 
Supporters See Virtues
 Supporters of the McDonnell deal say that buying into an existing company is the best and cheapest way of starting an aerospace industry. Even if Taiwan never makes a whole plane, an agreement to make aircraft parts may give Taiwan valuable manufacturing experience.
"We would do it to make components, to become a part of the world, to help elevate our traditional industry," said George Shen, president of the Intech Corporation, an aerospace consulting company. "From scratch, you don't know how hard it is," Mr. Shen said. "We can't wait to have a jump start."
Taiwan can offer not only a cheap source of capital but also manufacturing costs that could run 20 percent to 30 percent lower than in the United States.
Still, even with Government support, Taiwan Aerospace has encountered some early setbacks. Originally, it had expected an initial capital investment of $350 million, most of which it wanted to raise from private investors. But it was able to muster only $250 million, with the Government providing 29 percent through a development fund and a Government bank. Sixteen local private investors picked up the other 71 percent. Some potential participants, including a unit of the ruling Nationalist Party, backed out.
Some Taiwanese officials doubt that a final agreement with McDonnell can be struck before the Jan. 31 deadline set for the tentative deal, but both parties have said this deadline is not firm.
While McDonnell Douglas says the price for a 40 percent share is firm at $2 billion, Taiwan insists that everything is negotiable. In any case, for the Taiwan Government, even the $2 billion figure would not break the bank, given that the figure represents only about 2.5 percent of the country's official foreign-exchange reserves.
"If I had $1 million, I might take 2.5 percent of it to gamble," Mr. Shen said. "And that's just gambling. If I think McDonnell Douglas can do a good business, wouldn't I put 2.5 percent in the business?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: "With limited experience, the best way to enter the business would be to find a good partner who has been in the business for some time," said Denny R. S. Ko, president of the Taiwan Aerospace Corporation, a new company planning to purchase a major interest in the McDonnell Douglas Corporation. (Sheryl WuDunn/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; TAIWAN AEROSPACE CORP; DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CO MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (84%); BOEING CO (83%); AEROSPACE CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; TAIWAN AEROSPACE CORP; DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); TRENDS (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); AIRLINES (69%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; KO, DENNY R S

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



56 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:
THE ECONOMY
Merchants around the U.S. expressed only tempered optimism about the holiday season, even though shoppers turned out in greater numbers than expected over the Thanksgiving weekend. Most merchants said they would be hard pressed to achieve sales increases of 3 to 5 percent over last year, increases that would barely exceed the rate of inflation. And those modest gains would be from the depressed levels of the last two holiday seasons, which were among the worst on record. [Page A1.]
Most senior Republicans and Democrats in Washington doubt there is much they can do in the next few months to bolster the economy. Yet Democrats are hurling thunderbolts at Republicans and vice versa, hoping the voters will not notice how perilously little scope for real action they have. News Analysis. [A13.] 
 The adoption of internationally accepted accounting rules is moving toward reality after years of talk. [D1.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
Taiwan Aerospace's bid to buy a large chunk of McDonnell Douglas for as much as $2 billion is a sign that the Taiwanese economy is coming of age and entering the world of international partnerships and investments. [D1.]
The European Community's summit meeting will show that Germany is now more ready than any of its neighbors to surrender sovereignty to a strengthened community with a single currency. In contrast, Britain is the most reluctant partner and it has obtained a clause in a monetary union treaty that it has the right to withdraw from the move toward a single European currency. [A3.]
By taking financial control of the Kremlin, Boris N. Yeltsin has moved to make the vestiges of central Soviet authority an extension of his Russian government. News Analysis. [A1.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
Penthouse magazine's future may be in electronic publishing, if the new president of General Media Publishing succeeds in her latest project. Kathy Keeton learned early on not to flinch at taking risks, and now she is pushing aggressively to make all her company's publications available via computer. [D1.]
The movie-theater business is in a recession, with box-office receipts falling more than 4 percent from a year earlier. Some theater operators do not see a recovery coming soon. [D7.]
Employment in the nation's newspaper industry has fallen on a scale probably not seen since the worst days of the Depression as papers cut costs in response to the continuing severe advertising slump. Alex S. Jones: Press. [D7.]
Few movies on videotape include commercials, even though advertising executives a few years ago thought videos would be a marketing medium that would rival commercial television. [D7.]
Ayer has remade a 1977 commercial as part of a campaign for DeBeers diamonds. Despite a nostalgia boom that has inspired comebacks for many old commercials, it is unusual for a spot to be recreated shot for shot. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D8.]
 
COMPANIES
General Electric expects to be notified early this week about a $400 million contract for South Korea's first satellite. South Korean newspapers, quoting Government officials, reported that Seoul had selected G.E. over British Aerospace. [D1.]
New Line Cinema, an independent movie company, has a simple formula for profits: aim at a specific audience and keep costs low. [C13.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
The upside-down logic of the credit markets is becoming even more perverse. Reaction to good news will still be bad. But until further notice, bad news may not make participants in the bond market feel better and could make them feel worse. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D1.]
At age 32, Barbie is having a wonderful year. And so is the doll's manufacturer, Mattel. Market Place. [D1.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILM (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INFLATION (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); TICKET SALES (72%); EURO (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PUBLISHING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); MOVIE THEATERS (66%); CURRENCIES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



57 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
UKRAINIANS FAVOR INDEPENDENCE
Voters in the Ukraine were reported to be registering overwhelming approval of an independence declaration to take the republic out of the Soviet Union and to create a nation of 52 million people. Page A1
Ukrainian-Americans in New York celebrated. A10
 
SOVIET CENTER FAILS TO HOLD
News Analysis: The Soviet Union is now little more than a label of convenience while Russia, the Ukraine and their neighbors sort out their separate fates. A1
 
HOSTAGE TO BE FREED, CAPTORS SAY
Lebanese kidnappers said they would free an American captive, Joseph Cicippio, today, and there were indications that the two other remaining American hostages could be released by Sunday. A1
 
ISRAEL AGAIN REBUFFS WASHINGTON
Israeli leaders reaffirmed that they would not be in Washington on Wednesday for the resumption of Middle East peace talks. A8
 
GERMANS SEEK EUROPEAN UNITY
The European Community summit meeting will show Germany, long aggressively nationalistic, now more ready than any of its neighbors to surrender sovereignty to a strengthened community. A3
 
PALESTINIAN GOAL: SELF-RULE SOON
Palestinian strategy in the Middle East talks rests on the conviction that self-rule in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip is attainable. A8
 
A WORKING VISIT FROM MANDELA
Nelson Mandela left for the United States on a visit less dramatic than the one he made in 1990, carrying a more complex message. A5
 
U.S. POLICY ON ASYLUM DEBATED
The Bush Administration's response to the recent flood of Haitian refugees has opened a new debate over whether Washington has a consistent policy on political asylum. A11
 
Ngorongoro Journal: Where the women do the heavy work. A4
China announced its bid to be host of the Summer Olympics in 2000. A6
Scotland Yard warned London shoppers after a series of firebombs. A10
A Taiwan company plans to buy a big chunk of McDonnell Douglas. D1
 
National A12-15, B6-7
 
ON THE RACIAL FRONT LINE
Though the number of black-white marriages has more than tripled since 1970, acceptance still comes slowly, if at all, for couples. A1
 
SEEKING SAFETY IN THE DEEP
Tackling conventional wisdom about the fragile ocean, scientists are pressing ahead with a plan to investigate the use of the deep sea floor for dumping sewage sludge. A1
 
MERCHANTS ARE CAUTIOUS
Although shoppers turned out in greater numbers than expected over the Thanksgiving weekend, merchants around the country expressed only tempered optimism about the holiday season. A1
 
NEVER SAYING SORRY
President Bush says neither he nor the United States will apologize to Japan for dropping the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. A12
 
SAYING MUCH, DOING LITTLE
The '92 campaign has begun, with everyone in Washington talking vigorously about improving the economy, but really looking at the opinion polls instead. A13
 
A TOWN OF DREAD
A dentist dead of AIDS; five of his patients infected with the virus; widespread fear in the community -- this is Stuart, Fla., in 1991. A12
 
HELP FOR THE EXHAUSTED
Scientists' discovery of a hormonal deficiency in people who suffer from chronic fatigue syndrome opens the possibility of better treatment of the debilitating ailment. A15
 
LOBBYING FOR RIGHTS
Changing times in Washington have meant more work and less influence for Ralph Neas, executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. A14
 
CLUES TO THE UNIVERSE
Subatomic particles called neutrinos are almost everywhere but remain largely a mystery. Now some researchers believe that they have discovered a key to the universe in the ghostly particles. B7
 
EYES ON THE ROAD
Two days after 17 people died in a multiple-vehicle accident in California, safety experts say the unpredictability of human reactions are as much a cause of traffic accidents in conditions of limited visibility as is the fog or dust itself. A15
 
NEW VIEW OF CAPITOL
An exhibit of models of Washington's monuments will allow blind people to more fully experience the capital's architectural treasures. B7
 
The shuttle lands safely. A12
 
Metropolitan Desk Digest, B1
 
TWO YOUNG LIVES, ONE DEATH
Darrell Sharpe and Jason Bentley lived within a mile of each other amid the threadbare streets and bricked-up buildings of East New York, but their paths never crossed until gunfire in a school killed one and left the other under arrest. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Sports C1-11
Baseball: Mets in thick of Bonilla bidding. C4
Basketball: Seton Hall, St. John's look tough. C11
Big East-A.C.C. Challenge. C11
North Carolina routs Cornell. C11
Column: Anderson on the Jets. C6
Vecsey on Lawrence Taylor. C9
Features: Sidelines. C2
Question Box. C4
Tennis: France tops U.S. in Davis Cup. C1
Football: Giants upset by Bengals. C1
Jets lose to Bills. C1
Bills clinch A.F.C. East title. C6
Falcons rally to top Packers. C7
49ers beat Saints. C7
Giants not ready to give up C8
Hurricanes stack up winning points. C8
Golf: Birdie and big payoff for Stewart. C3
Soccer: St. Louis back in N.C.A.A. semifinals. C3
Hockey: High marks for Islanders. C2
 
Obituaries D10
Robert Kasanof, former director of Legal Aid Society
Rev. O. Urcille Ifill Sr., leader of African Methodist Episcopal Church
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-16
New Line Cinema's strategy. C13
A pre-Columbian gold collection goes to the Metropolitan Museum. C13
Music: A Mozart opera preserved in amber. C13
A solemn Eastern ritual. C15
"Traviata" cast changes. C16
 Dance: City Ballet performs. C14
Word and Image:
"Medusa," a Madonna spoof. C13
Holiday gift books. C15
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
EditorialsA16
Tax breaks: Stale seduction.
Congress fails; will banks?
Letters A16
William Safire: Bringing the 'dead cat' to life. A17
Anthony Lewis: More free lunch. A17
Karel van Wolferen: An economic Pearl Harbor? A17

GRAPHIC: Photo: A death turns Stuart, Fla., into "Chernobyl of dentistry." A12. (John Ricksen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); UKRAINE (96%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LEBANON (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (71%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); UKRAINE (96%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LEBANON (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); THANKSGIVING (72%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); POLICE FORCES (68%); REFUGEES (66%); OLYMPICS (63%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (62%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); WORLD WAR II (60%); OCEANOGRAPHY (60%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



58 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1931 words

HEADLINE: Black-White Marriages Rise, But Couples Still Face Scorn

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON

 BODY:
In another era, Tom and Yvette Weatherly might never have known each other. They grew up in opposite worlds in Atlanta, his white and affluent, hers black and working-class. But as the children of integration, they met when she was bused to his virtually all-white high school and sat behind him in English class. They helped each other with class work and goaded each other to raise their hands.
Eight years ago they were married. They have survived their families' shock and disapproval and the stares and unwelcome comments of strangers. They know not to stop in small towns or rural areas when they travel. 
 They are part of a small but rapidly growing corps of interracial couples who, wittingly or not, have put themselves on the front lines of American race relations, staring into the face of age-old stereotypes and painfully aware that their public embraces can unsettle all but the most tolerant Americans.
 
Nightmare, and Role Model
 The number of black-white marriages has more than tripled since 1970, according to the Census Bureau. And while interracial marriage is far more common between whites and members of other minorities, no pairing hits as raw a nerve as unions between blacks and whites. "We are a segregationist's worst nightmare," said Mr. Weatherly, a 30-year-old systems analyst. "But to other people, we're the perfect example."
As the nation confronts persistent racial bigotry, fanned by a stagnant economy and politicians like David Duke, these couples are quietly trying to bridge two increasingly alienated worlds.
Many manage a veneer of civility with once hostile in-laws. Others find acceptance from more tolerant families, particularly with the arrival of the firstborn.
But a few have not even told their parents that they are married and have children. Some say that even after decades of marriage, they are made to feel as if their relationships are illicit or unseemly. Many suffer indignities like being spat upon or refused services. And most say they want the one thing society seems not quite ready to give them: acceptance as ordinary couples.
"It has not passed the 'no blink' test," said Dr. Tom W. Smith, a researcher on social issues at the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago. "It's clear that the majority of whites are not prepared to accept this as just another couple. The minimum you get is a look and a stare."
According to the General Social Survey, an annual polling of 1,500 American adults of all races directed by Dr. Smith, a significant proportion of whites -- 1 in 5 -- still believe interracial marriage should be illegal, as against 2 in 5 whites asked the question in 1972. "They feel so strongly about it that they don't even want to leave it up to the individual," said Dr. Smith, who has conducted the survey for 19 years.
Further, 66 percent of whites said they would oppose a close relative's marrying a black person. Only 4 percent said they would favor it; the remainder said race was not a factor one way or the other. The margin of sampling error in the poll was plus or minus four percentage points, and seven percentage points for blacks.
No other ethnic or racial group engenders as intense a response from whites. About 45 percent of whites said they would oppose a close relative's marriage to an Asian or Hispanic person and 15 percent said they would oppose a marriage between a close relative and a Jew, according to the survey.
Blacks, on the other hand, exhibited indifference to intermarriage, with nearly two-thirds saying they would neither favor nor oppose a relative's marrying someone from another race.
To be sure, some white opposition has melted. The beaming faces of interracial couples appear with little protest on the wedding pages of Southern newspapers like The Augusta Chronicle in Georgia, a state where such unions were illegal until the 1970's. Television shows like "The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd" and movies like "Jungle Fever" have brought interracial relationships to living rooms and theaters, usually in a more realistic fashion than in the 1967 film "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?"
And in the contentious confirmation hearings of Clarence Thomas to be Supreme Court Justice, his marriage to Virginia Lamp, a white woman from Nebraska, drew little comment. The two were seen every morning of the hearings holding hands and giving each other good-luck kisses on national television.
But these new signs of openness do not necessarily translate into approval for most of these couples.
Teresa Johnson, a white social worker, has been married to Ralph Johnson, a black actor, for 17 years. They have two teen-age children and a house in the Hyde Park section of Chicago. Her relatives are miles away in Cleveland, and all but the very closest of them know her by her maiden name; they think she is single and childless.
To protect this secret, she has not been to a family wedding or funeral since she married, for fear that the topic might come up. For years, only her parents knew. But they were horrified at the news and dared not let it slip. She did not even bother to tell them she was pregnant the last time.
"They were so upset about the first one," said Mrs. Johnson, 40 years old, "because that meant I wasn't turning back."
 
'I Can't Go to Their House'
 For years her parents would not let her children enter their house, preferring instead to meet them at the airport or at a pizza parlor in some other neighborhood. Now her parents let the children visit -- but only at night so the neighbors won't see.
"To this day" said Mr. Johnson, "I can't go to their house because of the neighbors."
Mrs. Johnson said she felt caught in a cruel paradox because people cannot get beyond the color of her husband's skin. "Here we are, a typical middle-class family," she said. "Ralph's a Little League coach. He's on the local school council. I have cousins who have kids out the wedlock, who are juvenile delinquents and in the Hell's Angels. But I'm the one on the outs. If my husband was white and beat me, that would be O.K."
Marriages between blacks and whites make up a tiny fraction of all married couples in the country -- about 4 of every 1,000. But the numbers are rising, as well as the ratio, which was 1.5 out of 1,000 in 1970. There were 65,000 black-white marriages in 1970 and 211,000 in 1990, according to Census figures. While these figures are not broken down by state or region, researchers say such marriages are more common on the East and West Coasts than elsewhere, and far more common in cities than in suburbs or rural areas.
 
Threshold for Integration
 The rise in intermarriage and whites' feelings against it are an important measure of the threshold for integration, social scientists say.
"Intermarriage is like the tip of the iceberg," said Dr. Richard D. Alba, chairman of the sociology department at the State University of New York at Albany, who is a specialist in ethnic intermarriage and race relations. "It is the visible expression of a host of attitudes and informal contacts that are otherwise hard to measure. Whites have difficulty accepting blacks as neighbors and co-workers, and all the more as members of the family."
Still, things are far different from in 1958, when Richard Loving and Mildred Jeter were married in Washington and promptly arrested back home in Virginia. The white groom and the black bride were accused of violating the state's anti-miscegenation law, a felony, and faced up to five years in prison. In exchange for a suspended sentence, they were forbidden to set foot in Virginia for 25 years.
Their case, Loving v. Virginia, went to the Supreme Court, which in 1967 overturned miscegenation laws in Virginia and 15 other states, most of them Southern. Some states kept the laws on the books well into the 1970's, however, and only in recent years have some interracial couples there felt safe.
Indeed, a black woman in Georgia gave her son a gun when he married a white woman in the early 1970's. The son, Nathaniel Brown, now a doctor's assistant, never had to use the gun, but he and his wife were stopped by state troopers on a quiet stretch of rural Georgia road.
"They thought my husband had abducted me," said his wife, Brenda Brown.
Mr. Brown thinks life is easier for the couple now, but not by much. "People now say, 'Maybe I can't shoot this person like I could before,' " Mr. Brown said. "Now that you see pictures of interracial couples in the newspaper and on television, you can feel free to walk in the malls and out in the street, doing what other people do and enjoying each other."
Last August, a Methodist minister in Pennsylvania refused to marry a white beautician to a black army private after meeting the groom-to-be. It was four days before the wedding. "The pastor said I didn't tell him about the situation," said Angela Harms, who managed to find a new church and minister. "Well, I didn't know there was a situation."
Douglas and Marcia Drumright of San Pablo, Calif., were terrorized for four years by a neighbor who was infuriated by the sight of them, a black man and white woman, together. The Drumrights are now suing the neighbor.
In court papers, they say the neighbor, a professed member of the white supremacy group Aryan Brotherhood, cursed at their children, threatened to kill the husband, poured motor oil in their swimming pool and spat on their car as Mrs. Drumright drove her daughter to school. "I'm going to get you," they say the neighbor told them. "I'm going to get your whole family."
 
A Pioneering Way
 It would seem to take extraordinary strength of will to bear that kind of stress, and sociologists say that people who enter into these kinds of marriages tend to have an open, pioneering way about them.
Some say the most common black-white pairing -- a black man married to a white woman -- may be more frequent because of shared feelings of powerlessness. "They both occupy an incongruent status in society," said Prof. Charles Willie, a black sociologist at Harvard University, who is himself married to a white woman. "They both should be dominant, he because he is male, she because she is white. But because of racism and sexism, they are not respected as dominant."
Others say that some black men gain a sense of membership in a white-dominated culture through such marriages. "The white woman becomes the supreme symbol of acceptability," said Dr. Naim Akbar, a psychologist at Florida State University, who has counseled black men in interracial relationships. "It speaks to the serious assault on the person that racism inflicts on us."
For the white spouses, the marriages often become a crash course in what it is like to be black in America. They begin to measure their movements and be alert to discrimination in much the same way blacks do.
MargrietDaniels, a white bookstore owner in Evanston, Ill., who is married to a retired black chemist, worries about their two grown sons simply because of the disproportionate danger faced by young black men. "I hear police sirens, and I immediately think, Where are the boys?" she said. "This is something you don't learn growing up white."
The couples are often reminded that they are the cutting edge of integration. Once a puzzled schoolmate asked the Johnsons' son, Jamarr, about his ethnic origin. Told that Jamarr was half white and half black, the schoolmate was only more confused and asked, "Then who do you guys talk about at home?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: About four in 1,000 marriages are between blacks and whites. Teresa Johnson, left, a social worker, has been married to Ralph Johnson, right, an actor, for 17 years. They are shown with their children, Jamarr, left, and Micaeh, in their home in Chicago. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times); "We are a segregationist's worst nightmare," said Tom Weatherly, a white man whose wife, Yvette, is black. "But to other people, we're the perfect example." The couple, who met as their high school was being integrated and were married eight years ago, were at home in Atlanta with daughter, Ann. (Alan Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Graphs: "Changing Attitudes" shows percent of those answering yes when asked if there should be a law prohibiting interracial marriages, from '72-'91. (Source: National Opinion Research Center of the University of Chicago); "Growing Numbers" shows number of Black/White couples for every 100,000 married couples in the United States, from '60-'90. (Source: Census Bureau) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (85%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; RACIAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); ASIAN-AMERICANS RACE & RACISM (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ASIAN AMERICANS (68%); CENSUS (54%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL TOM W SMITH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



59 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: UKRAINIAN VOTERS CROWD THE POLLS TO CREATE NATION

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KIEV, U.S.S.R., Dec. 1

 BODY:
Voters in the Ukraine were reported today to be registering overwhelming approval of an independence declaration to take the republic out of the Soviet Union to create a nation of 52 million people.
"This is a great day -- it is the flowering of our soul," exulted Olga Ovsiyenko, an election worker tending some of the millions of Ukrainians who went in a holiday mood to the ballot boxes to affirm the long-sought cause of Ukrainian statehood. 
 While the first official results were not promised until Monday, election district managers were unofficially estimating a conclusive, enthusiastic majority favoring independence.
 
Aftermath of Failed Coup
 A full-fledged nation of the Ukraine, a fragile dream across centuries of alien oppression and warfare, abruptly came within reach with the collapse of central authority after the failed coup by Communist hard-liners in August.
The vote for the republic's departure quickens the collapse of the Soviet Union's central structure and has already prompted repeated warnings and complaints from the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who is struggling to preserve some form of national union.
Nevertheless, Bush Administration officials said last week that the United States was preparing to grant recognition to the Ukraine "expeditiously" should the referendum pass and once the republic meets a series of conditions. The White House thus signaled a shift in American policy toward the separate Soviet republics and away from what remains of Mr. Gorbachev's enfeebled union.
 
Voting for President
 Less certain in today's voting was the outcome of the race for President of the Ukraine. Leonid M. Kravchuk, the Communist Party chief who converted to nationalist politics and survived as the republic's leader, was expected to come in first, but it was not clear whether he would gain the majority needed to avoid a runoff.
Of the original 15 Soviet republics, only the three Baltic republics -- Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia -- have gained wide international recognition of their independence since the August putsch. Most of the remaining 12 republics have declared independence in some form while still forging new economic and political links with Moscow and among themselves.
But today's voting could be a watershed. A ringing electoral endorsement of independence in the economically vital Ukraine, the most populous Soviet republic after Russia, would mark an important psychological milestone and could change perceptions among the republics about whether a union can be preserved. Still, even though the Ukraine has so far declined to participate in any of the talks on political union, it remains uncertain whether today's vote will inevitably lead to a clean break with the other republics.
After a preamble about "the mortal danger" of the attempted coup and its prompting this all-out dedication to independence, the ballot asked in reference to an earlier resolution by the Ukrainian Parliament: "Do you support the declaration of independence of the Ukraine?" Voters crossed out either "yes" or "no," and the uncrossed answer was their choice.
Apart from self-pride and a sense of fresh opportunity, independence would leave Ukrainians with the same daunting problem of how to engineer economic resurrection from the ashes of Communist dictatorship.
 
'Hard Times Are Coming'
 "What else can we do but vote for independence?" asked Aleksandr Yastchenko, a 27-year-old driver. He grimly estimated that it would take 10 years even in an independent Ukraine before the economy improved significantly for his daughter, now 2 years old. "Hard times are coming, no doubt, but we'll get through better this way."
The Ukrainian television news said in a summary that there were high turnouts in most regions and that a positive referendum result was not in doubt. "A majority are for independence from their heart and soul," one newscaster reported.
The first sketchy result came from Odessa, where Ukrainian television reported that Black Sea merchant sailors were favoring independence by about a 90 percent margin. Earlier opinion polls were predicting a favorable endorsement of about 75 percent across the republic.
No clear results were available on the second ballot question, the election of a President. Election district managers said it was unclear whether Mr. Kravchuk was polling more than 50 percent of the vote needed in the six-candidate field to take the election on the first ballot. If not, a Dec. 15 runoff would be needed between the top two finishers.
 
Challenger to President
 Most estimates were that the runner-up challenger would most likely be Vyacheslav Chornovil, a leading Ukrainian nationalist who was imprisoned as an anti-Communist dissident.
"Even here in the old Bolsheviks' neighborhood, the vote is probably better than 50 percent for independence," said Ivan Seryak, manager of the Fourth Kiev Election District in the fashionable hilltop center of Kiev where Communist apparatchiks and widows have long lived.
When he counted the vote after the polls closed, Mr. Seryak was delighted that a booming 85 percent were in favor of independence, and only 12 percent opposed. Mr. Kravchuk received 61 percent of the presidential ballot in this old party district, while Mr. Chornovil drew 19 percent.
 
Absence of Ethnic Strife
 The voter turnout was heaviest in the western Ukraine, where nationalism is most fervent because of the region's history in having been taken into the Soviet Union mainly from Poland in World War II. The vote was lightest in ethnic Russian areas in the east and south, but even there officials were estimating that majorities would be registered for independence. The republic has thus far been devoid of the inter-ethnic clashes that plague other parts of the fallen Soviet empire.
With the continuing downward spiral of the union, the course to independence has grown easier. Mr. Kravchuk, who serves as republic leader through choice of the Parliament, fairly dared Mr. Gorbachev to try to stop the republic's departure. Asked whether he was concerned that the Ukraine might face "measures" from the union, he noted that earlier threats had proved hollow in the case of the now fully independent Baltic states.
"To take 'measures' against the movement of millions is absurd," Mr. Kravchuk said at his voting booth.
"Even the President of the former Soviet Union has no right to interfere," Mr. Kravchuk said of Mr. Gorbachev, whose favor the Ukrainian leader once courted as a careerist in the party. Mr. Kravchuk quit the Communist Party in August when the party's doom was sealed in the failed Kremlin coup.
In solidifying his own transition to the nationalist banner and bolstering his election image, Mr. Kravchuk spoke only Ukrainian in public. He also ordered the appropriation of 25 million rubles of impounded Communist funds to restore various neighborhood churches desecrated under Communism.
More closely noted than Mr. Gorbachev's complaint about an independent Ukraine is the view of President Boris N. Yeltsin of the Russian republic, who has succeeded Mr. Gorbachev as the disjointed nation's dominant leader. Mr. Yeltsin has already conceded that the proposal to seek a new political union from the now highly sovereign republics cannot succeed without the Ukraine.
 
Issuing Currency
 On Saturday he said plans by an independent Ukraine to issue its own currency would affect his own sweeping plans for Russia, the largest and richest republic, to take the lead in reforming the economy and stabilizing the ruble.
Mr. Kravchuk has stressed that the agriculture-rich Ukraine, dependent on Russia's oil and other goods, intends to pursue close economic ties with Russia, which recently signed a commerce treaty with the Ukraine. But the Ukrainian leader, reflecting nationalist pressures and shifting views, has lately rejected a proposal to create an economic community of 10 sovereign republics, saying it was useless.
Last month, the Ukraine Government reluctantly initialed this proposal to pursue a common course on banking and currency, trade and customs. But now the Kiev Parliament is expected to reject that compact as early as next week in the heady aftermath of the independence vote. 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Voting for Kazakhstan Leader
 ALMA-ATA, U.S.S.R., Dec. 1 (Reuters) -- President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan appeared to be heading for a majority today in the Soviet Central Asian republic's first presidential election, the head of the central electoral commission said.
Four hours before the polls were scheduled to close, almost 10 million people, or 79 percent of registered voters, had cast their ballots in this republic of 16 million said the commission head, Kapar Bukenov.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leonid M. Kravchuk, the former Communist Party leader and a candidate for the Ukrainian Presidency, voting yesterday in Kiev. (Agence France-Presse); A group of Soviet army cadets registering to vote in the Ukrainian election at a polling station in Kiev. (Associated Press) (pg. A10)
 
Map of the Soviet Union showing location of Ukraine. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BALTIC STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); ESTONIA (78%); LATVIA (77%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; UKRAINE (USSR) UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BALTIC STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); ESTONIA (78%); LATVIA (77%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; REFERENDUMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); COUPS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KRAVCHUK, LEONID M

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



60 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: The Soviet Shell;
Yeltsin's Assumption of National Finances Suggests an End to the Kremlin's Authority

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 1

 BODY:
Assuming control over the Kremlin's purse strings this weekend, Boris N. Yeltsin has moved to make the vestiges of central Soviet authority an extension of his Russian government.
His agreement to finance the Soviet payroll and guarantee Soviet state bank credits may have seemed a little routine after the high drama of events beginning with the attempted Kremlin coup and its collapse 14 weeks ago. The move was announced in the form of a brief communique after a "working meeting" between Mr. Yeltsin, the Russian republic's President, and the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev. 
 Yet the surrender of financial control to Russia suggested the end of what autonomy and authority Mr. Gorbachev's battered Government still has.
 
A Label of Convenience
 That, coinciding with what today was shaping up as an overwhelming vote in the Ukraine for independence, confirmed what had seemed increasingly clear throughout November: that the Soviet Union Mr. Gorbachev has struggled so hard to maintain was little more than a label of convenience until Russia, the Ukraine and their neighbors sorted out their increasingly separate fates.
The developments seemed to open a new chapter in the extraordinary story of the disintegration of the Soviet Union. It was a measure of the unforeseeable directions things seemed to take that an event that would have roused anxiety and consternation only a month ago, the transfer of budget control to Russia, now came almost as a relief.
Somewhere in the chaotic events of the last month -- the growing awareness that the Ukraine seemed headed for independence, the bankruptcy of the central Government, Mr. Yeltsin's increasing readiness to assume the debts and responsibilities of the old "center" and the Russian leader's impatience to initiate reforms -- it became evident that the center was failing to hold, but that this might not be the catastrophe Mr. Gorbachev made it out to be.
Whether Mr. Yeltsin planned this is moot. But by waiting until the central Government was on the brink of default in its foreign debts and unable to meet its domestic payroll, he insured that his assumption of these responsibilities would be applauded abroad, at home and among the Soviet republics that still have sizable all-union institutions.
The catalyst, however, was less Mr. Yeltsin's ambition than the Ukraine, the important republic whose national aspirations have figured as a threat to the Kremlin's central authority. Both Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin last week reiterated a truth long familiar in Moscow, that there can be no Soviet Union without the Ukraine and its 52 million people.
Mr. Gorbachev tried to convince President Bush that the exit of the Ukraine was a "catastrophe for the Union, for the Ukraine itself, and for Russia, Europe and the world."
The argument, however, seemed to sound increasingly hollow the closer the Ukraine approached independence. Mr. Bush signaled that the United States was prepared to work toward political recognition if the Ukraine proved responsible in financial, military, human-rights and regional matters.
 
The Ruble Problem
 For Mr. Yeltsin, the real issue was not whether to try to stop the Ukrainians, but to prepare for the prospect that they were determined to go it alone. The immediate concern was that if the Ukraine introduced its own currency, other republics would quickly follow suit and Russia would be overwhelmed with a hyper-inflationary mass of rubles.
That would destroy any chance of stabilizing the ruble and going through with the moves toward a free market devised by Mr. Yeltsin's new government team. One reason for taking hold of the financial levers, then, was to prepare for the possibility that Russia might also be compelled to issue its own currency.
Another reason was an urgent need to curb the flow of paper money at a time the central Government had run out of other means to meet its finances. Mr. Gorbachev and the unwieldy State Council of republic presidents seemed incapable of reaching or carrying out any political or economic decision that might impose fiscal order, and Mr. Yeltsin finally seemed to decide that Russia could wait no more.
In the end, Mr. Yeltsin's assumption of Kremlin finances was widely welcomed. Foreign governments and investors saw a new chance for financial stability, and therefore for repayment of debts and potential new investment. Smaller republics would likewise benefit by the stability at the center and the escape from economic collapse.
Even Mr. Gorbachev gained, since the arrangement won him time to continue the search for an economic and political agreement among the republics.
 
A Curious Symbiosis
 In fact, the two leaders, who once were feuding rivals, now seemed to act in curious symbiosis. Mr. Yeltsin still needed some form of central government if he was to persuade other republics to foot their share of Soviet debts and bills, and to deflect the impression that he was trying to build a Russian empire. Mr. Gorbachev, for his part, seemed to recognize that his office and his dream of a future union could survive only with Mr. Yeltsin's help.
But if the two men once again found a way to step back from the abyss, it was only to face a host of new unknowns.
In Russia, the greatest unknown was how the diverse population of the huge republic would react to the shock of enormous price rises once prices are freed and the ruble is floated. Prices are expected to at least quadruple, and there is the chance of hyper-inflation.
Many officials expected an outbreak of social unrest. Some old supporters began to abandon Mr. Yeltsin, most notably his Vice President, Aleksandr Rutskoi, who declared that he would resign if the economic reforms went ahead.
 
Ukraine's Question Mark
 Another huge question mark hung over the Ukraine. Politicians competing for the Ukrainian presidency all promised that independence would bring quick prosperity, but the reality was likely to be far different as the republic confronted economic reality, including dependence on Russian oil.
Ukrainian politicians seemed likely to find that uniting the republic in opposition to Moscow was far easier than the task ahead -- uniting several sharply differing regions, ranging from the Greek Catholic and passionately nationalist western Ukraine to the Russified and Orthodox eastern region.
There was also the question of how Ukrainian nationalism would affect other republics. There was the chance that the Ukrainian precedent would prompt others to start printing their own money. And if the Russian economy began to founder, it was always possible that Central Asian republics with large Muslim populations might gravitate toward their Islamic southern neighbors.
But for the moment at least, an increasing number of people seemed to find comfort in an aphorism attributed to the 19th century anarchist Mikhail Bakunin: "Anarchy is the mother of order."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Huge price increases and further social unrest are expected to follow the Kremlin's surrender of financial control Saturday to the Russian republic. In a state store in Moscow, a shopper paid for cottage cheese. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UKRAINE (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR); UKRAINE RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UKRAINE (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; REFERENDUMS BUDGETS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); POLITICS (70%); REFERENDUMS (68%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



61 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: 2 Who Lost Their Way in Urban Wilds

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN

 BODY:
Darrell Sharpe and Jason Bentley lived within a mile of each other amid the threadbare streets and bricked-up buildings of East New York, but had never met.
In a neighborhood where gunfire is common, fear pervaded their young lives, and each chose to deal with it in his own way. Darrell turned inward and chose his friends carefully, so as to stay out of harm's way. The police say Jason apparently armed himself, as many teen-agers there say they do to protect themselves from one another. 
 Their paths crossed last Monday when a fight began over a book bag. It ended when gunshots exploded in a crowded third-floor hallway at Thomas Jefferson High School. In an instant, Darrell, 16, was dead, and a teacher lay wounded. A few hours later, 14-year-old Jason, a baby-faced youth who people say is small for his age, was accused of pulling the trigger.
Darrell's family is inconsolable, unable to comprehend why their son, who had tried his best to resist the allure of the streets, was gunned down during a fight that had nothing to do with him.
Jason's family is despondent, their friends say, that their hard work to build a good life for their two sons could not keep one of them from pulling a gun to defend the other in a petty fight, as witnesses have told the police.
And the neighborhood they shared has been left to wonder how two boys who seemed to be going so right could go so wrong.
A few hours after the shooting, 18 of the 35 boys and girls who graduated from the eighth grade at St. John Neumann Roman Catholic School with Jason last May gathered together to try to understand what happened.
"They were angry at him because he had the same background they had, and he made this decision, if indeed he made it," said Sister Margaret A. Merritt, principal of the school. "They knew where to come for support. Why didn't he? They were also very scared for themselves: If he could make that kind of decision, what's to say they couldn't?"
In interviews with dozens of friends, family members and schoolmates, a picture emerges of two youths who had much in common, but whose paths through the urban wilderness were beginning to diverge.
Both boys were handsome. In school pictures, Jason is always smiling. Darrell was said to love school, although he had to repeat the ninth grade. The principal of St. John Neumann School, where Jason attended since he was 4, said he was so smart, he easily qualified to attend a Catholic high school.
Both have roots in the South. Darrell's father's family is from North Carolina. Jason's parents are also from North Carolina. But in many ways, Jason's background presented fewer hardships. Darrell lived with his mother, who is unemployed, and two brothers in an apartment on Sutter Avenue, in a modern, squat red-brick public housing project five blocks northwest of the high school. Their building is surrounded by open rubble-filled lots and decaying houses, many with bricked-up windows.
In all, Darrell had 13 brothers and two sisters, some of whom live elsewhere. His father died years ago. Chris Sharpe, 18, talked quietly about his brother in the dim hallway of the apartment building. Darrell liked school and attended regularly, and encouraged others to do so, his brother and friends said.
He spent his free time hanging out with his friends on the stoop outside their building or on the streets close to home.
"He just wanted to be alive, I guess," Mr. Sharpe said of his brother. "He just didn't bother nobody. Around here everybody's got to stay out of everybody's way."
 
An Oasis
 Jason lives on Bradford Street, seven blocks southeast of the school. It is an oasis of neatly tended private homes with red and white aluminum awnings. A block or two beyond, the blight of East New York again reclaims its turf.
His lawyer, Harold Levy, said the family did not want to be interviewed for this article. "They are decent, hardworking people" distraught over reports that their son had killed another boy and injured a teacher with a gun purchased on the street for $50, Mr. Levy said.
The father, Rudolph, is a porter at a synagogue in Queens, and before that worked as a security guard. Their mother, Sally, works at the school as a librarian, a job she got to be near her children. They have three children, Jermaine, 17, and Jason and Carrie.
"He's a good kid," Mr. Levy said about Jason. "Unfortunately that's how many kids chose to resolve their problems, by carrying guns. It's a sign of the times."
The police said the shooting grew out of a fight between Jermaine, the older brother Jason adored, and another boy named Jesse Thompson, 17. The dispute apparently had begun months ago over a book bag.
Capt. John J. Finn said Jason drew his gun to help his brother. When the Thompson youth retreated, Jason fired three shots at him, but hit Darrell and a teacher, Robert Anderson, 48. As of yesterday, Mr. Anderson was in stable condition at Brookdale Hospital in Brooklyn.
Except for an accidental shooting in 1989, this was the first killing of a student in a school in more than a decade.
 
Homicides Are Frequent
 In East New York this year there have been 104 homicides, a disproportionately high figure for the city. Police at the 75th Precinct say they confiscate about four weapons a day, most of them guns, and made 158 arrests for weapons possession between July and mid-November.
Several students interviewed during the last week said they carry knives or guns or know someone who does. While some of those statements may be bravado, it is clear that school officials anticipate serious discipline problems. Students must carry ID cards to be scanned by an electronic device to enter the building, and 13 school security guards regularly patrolled the campus.
A sophomore who said his name was Willie said he knew both Darrell and Jason. Willie said many youths carried guns for the same reason that he does: protection in a rough neighborhood.
"I'm not scared to go to school," Willie said. "I come here with a weapon, a 9-millimeter automatic. So it don't make no difference. I'd rather use my fists, but if it came down to that, I'm going to use it."
Almost everyone who talked about Darrell mentioned his earnestness and how he had talked about becoming a policeman or a lawyer or a rap musician. His dreams and goals had not yet crystallized, but one desire had: he wanted to get out, perhaps to North Carolina where some of his family members live.
"He wanted to go back down South," recalled a youth outside the Sharpes' apartment who said he was Darrell's best friend, but who would not give his name. "He always talked about it. But he can never make it now."
 
Basketball and Video Games
 The friend said they would play basketball in the lot behind the apartment building, play video games at Joel's Food Center or look for girls or go shopping along Pitkin Avenue.
"He had so many friends," he said. "He wasn't a fighting kid."
Darrell told Jennifer Cusaac, 15, a classmate and close friend, that he wanted to become a policeman. She lives above a pharmacy on Darrell's street, Sutter Avenue.
"He was a nice guy," she said. "He stayed to himself. He went to all of his classes. He wanted to be a cop. He was going to be educated, and I'm sorry it happened to him."
At a barbershop near the Bentleys' home, the owner and some of the patrons remembered Jason as well behaved.
"He was a nice, cool young guy," said a barber who declined to give his name. "Every time I seen him, he was with a couple of friends. He was never into mischievous behavior, just chillin' with his friends. When I first heard about the story, I was surprised. The family was real close."
Jason came in for haircuts every other week, the barber said. He walked past the shop every day on his way to school.
His half-mile walk took him under the tracks of an elevated train, past run-down corner groceries and empty lots.
Those at St. Michael's Roman Catholic Church, which the Bentleys attended, and the Catholic school say the two boys, who both graduated from St. John Neumann, were inseparable. Jason chose to go to Jefferson because his brother had done so, even though Jason had the qualifications to attend a parochial high school.
Jason began going to the school when he was 4, because his mother didn't want to leave him at home when she walked Jermaine to school. Because she didn't want to walk all the way home twice, she spent most of her day at the school, along with her two boys, and she eventually became a school aide who runs the library.
In the school yearbook the year he graduated from eighth grade, Jermaine said his ambition was to be a cartoonist. Jason said the same when his turn came at the end of last year.
 
Milk Crates for Hoops
 On weekends, he could be found at a cement lot adjacent to the high school playing basketball with a half-dozen other youths in the neighborhood. The backboard is a 15-foot-high chain-link fence surrounding the lot, and the hoops are black plastic milk crates attached to the fence with wire.
On Monday, another neighborhood friend said Jason had stopped by the barbershop window looking distraught.
"He looked very nervous," the friend said. "But he was on his way home. That shows you what kind of kid he was. He went straight home. If he was a kid who was used to doing that kind of thing, he wouldn't have gone home. All I know is that his brother wanted to take the rap for him. They were close like that."
The Bentleys and their children celebrated Mass at St. Michael's Catholic Church on Thanksgiving, and received sympathy and support from other members. Many stayed long after the service ended.
"They have not tried to run and hide," said the Rev. Robert Abbatiello. "I think that says a lot about their character, that they're here as a family."
Still, said the Rev. Brendan P. Buckley, everyone in their community is seeking to understand why what happened happened.
"If I knew that Jason came from a family that wasn't a support structure like his is, then I would say, 'Ah,' " he said. "But that's not the case. What is the lesson here? I don't know.
"I would hope that the pain itself would be part of the process of learning," he said. "We must pray for an end to the violence."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jason Bentley, left, is accused of shooting a teacher and Darrell Sharpe, right, at Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn. (pg. A1); Jennifer Cusaac, right, a classmate and close friend of Darrell Sharpe, said Darrell had told her he wanted to become a policeman. She stood with her sister, Joyce, left, and their mother, Edna, in front of their apartment building on Sutter Avenue in the East New York section of Brooklyn. (Nancy Siesel for The New York Times); Sister Margaret A. Merritt, principal of St. John Neumann Roman Catholic School, where Jason Bentley graduated last May. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: THOMAS JEFFERSON HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: THOMAS JEFFERSON HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST NEW YORK (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SHOOTINGS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS FIREARMS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); RELIGION (63%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA; SHARPE, DARRELL; BENTLEY, JASON

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



62 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Suggest Dumping Sludge On Vast, Barren Deep Sea Floor

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WOODS HOLE, Mass.

 BODY:
Black as a cave, devoid of plants and home to worms and other low forms of life, the thick sediments at the bottom of the deepest oceans are described by marine scientists as immense and empty plains undisturbed by earthquakes or volcanoes.
Now scientists at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, one of the nation's most respected marine research centers, believe they have found a use for what they call the planet's most useless real estate. 
 Hoping to disprove conventional wisdom about the ocean's fragility and show that the nation is not turning its back on what they say is the potential for a vast, safe and relatively inexpensive disposal area, the scientists are pushing ahead with an unpopular proposal to investigate the use of the deep sea floor for dumping sewage sludge.
 
No Help for Sloppiness
 "The idea isn't to make it easier for industries or cities to be sloppy with their wastes," said Dr. Charles D. Hollister, a marine geologist and senior scientist at Woods Hole. "But at the same time, no matter how much we recycle and conserve and reduce waste, we're still going to have some.
"Does it make sense to close off 70 percent of the earth's surface without at least studying the idea of using it for waste disposal?"
The idea has roiled environmental groups in the United States and abroad who campaigned for years to end the deep sea disposal of human and industrial wastes and considered the matter closed when Congress enacted the ban on it three years ago. To carry out their study, the Woods Hole scientists are asking the Government to amend the anti-dumping law in a way that would allow ocean dumping of sewage sludge, the byproduct of human waste from sewer systems after it has been treated.
 
Open Ocean 'More Vulnerable'
 Dr. Elliott A. Norse, a marine ecologist and chief scientist of the Center for Marine Conservation, an environmental group in Washington that opposes the proposal, said: "Large amounts of nutrient loading in an ecosystem will bring about profound changes. The open ocean systems, although much larger than the coastal systems, also are more vulnerable because the organisms in them are adapted to cope with low levels of nutrients and have no experience with toxic materials in sewage sludge."
But the scientists at the Woods Hole center argue that the ban on the deep sea disposal of sewage sludge ignores new knowledge about the ability of the ocean to absorb such waste and closes off possibilities for getting rid of sewage in a way that could be safer and less expensive than dumping it in harbors and landfills or burning it in incinerators.
 
House Hearing Planned
 The House Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee agreed in November to hold hearings early next year to consider allowing deep sea dumping for research purposes only. Congressional permission would allow the Woods Hole scientists to go ahead with the third phase of their study, intended to find out if deep sea disposal makes economic sense and to see how well the idea stands up to critiques by environmental leaders. The hearings could also lead to a lifting of prohibitions against using Federal money to pay for such research.
The Woods Hole proposal for dumping the waste, made public at a conference here in January, would involve shipping one million tons of sewage sludge to one of two sites in the Atlantic about 300 miles off shore, roughly halfway between the East Coast and Bermuda.
The sludge would be lowered through 16,000 feet of water on powerful hoists with leak-proof buckets larger than a house, then dumped on the ocean bottom, where scientists say it would be decomposed by bacteria.
The second phase of the project was completed in November when marine engineers here and at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology introduced concepts for self-propelled, unmanned undersea vehicles that would monitor the safety of a deep sea dumping site. The first phase involved preliminary designs for ships needed to haul the sewage sludge to sea and for the mechanisms for taking it to the bottom.
The not-for-profit Woods Hole institution, whose research is supported by grants from private and public agencies, has been conducting the disposal study with a $250,000 grant from the Sloan Foundation. The institute plans to spend the last of that money in January by holding a colloquium here with environmentalists, who have promised a lively confrontation.
 
'Fight to the Bitter End'
 "The ocean should not be the garbage can for dumping human wastes," said Sarah L. Clark, a staff scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund in New York. "Using the oceans amounts to an 'out-of-sight-out-of-mind solution' and we will fight this to the bitter end."
The notion that the deepest ocean depths might prove suitable for disposing of human wastes has proved to be the most politically ticklish idea put forward by the Woods Hole Institution since the early 1970's, when its scientists proposed disposing of high-level radioactive wastes deep in the ocean bottom. That research, which cost the Department of Energy about $100 million, ended in 1986 when President Ronald Reagan decided to use a barren mountain in Nevada as the site for the nation's repository the waste.
But results of those studies left marine scientists with a new view of the deep ocean environment. They found that currents three to four miles below the surface are generally slower than a sea snail's pace. They learned that the saltier, colder water at such crushing depths takes centuries to mix with less salty, lighter water above.
 
Knowledge Now Useful
 And through countless samples collected from the thick sediments, which are called sea ooze and have the color and consistency of peanut butter, the Woods Hole scientists say they discovered that the deep ocean bottom was probably the most geologically stable land on the planet.
Such characteristics, the scientists say, mean that anything put on the bottom of huge expanses of the northern and southern Pacific Ocean, much of the Atlantic Ocean, and most of the Indian Ocean, would stay put.
Still, to satisfy regulators that the risks were minimal, the scientists need a method for monitoring the dump site. One of the engineers put to the task of developing a remote deep sea inspector was Dr. Albert M. Bradley, a marine engineer in whose tangled laboratory here hangs a red plastic and glass model of a small submersible vehicle that resembles the Starship Enterprise from "Star Trek."
This vehicle, called an autonomous benthic explorer, would be powered by batteries, propelled by electric motors, and could carry cameras and other monitoring equipment back and forth from Bermuda to the disposal area 300 miles away.
No unmanned underwater vehicle capable of such range and intelligence has ever been built, but Dr. Bradley says the technology is readily available. "They build toys now that can do some of this stuff," he said.
The newfound knowledge from the deep had little use until the last couple of years when American cities suddenly found themselves facing large increases in waste disposal costs as landfills filled with sludge and garbage, and efforts to build more landfills met immense public resistance.
The United States produces 300 million tons of sewage sludge annually, and almost all of it is burned in incinerators, applied to the land or put in landfills. Because of much stricter state and Federal environmental laws, more than two-thirds of the nation's landfills have closed since the 1970's, and about 2,000 of the remaining 6,500 will close by 1996, the Environmental Protection Agency says.
 
New York's Dumping Deadline
 New York, the last city to dump its sewage sludge at sea, has to end the dumping by June 1992. But other coastal cities legally dispose of sewage sludge in rivers and harbors, contributing to to the fecal and toxic coastal pollution. Turning sludge into a useful nutrient is difficult and costly because of the enormous volume and the expense of the process.
Scientists who support the Woods Hole research say that, in addition to providing answers about sewage sludge disposal, it is also intended to expand man's knowledge of the deep ocean environment and explore whether the untouched undersea plains are a resource worth exploiting. Coming up with the answers could cost $100 million, the scientists say. They hope to get most of that money from the Federal Government.
The scientists also acknowledge that the study has another goal: persuading lawmakers to consider hard scientific evidence more carefully when weighing political decisions about environmental risks.
"There is too much reaction in Washington to anecdotal and unsubstantiated evidence," said Dr. Judith E. McDowell Capuzzo a biologist at Woods Hole. "If you are going to make decisions and weigh options, part of the criteria will be esthetic perceptions. But science should be at least as important, and too often now it's not."
Lawmakers may be more ready to listen to to both sides of the debate. "We need to keep an open mind," said Representative William J. Hughes, a New Jersey Democrat and a member of the House Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee. "We're concerned that research projects end up becoming the springboard for commercial ocean dumping. But I don't think we should ever foreclose research, nor the opportunity to look at other options for disposal that are safe and would serve the public interest."

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "How Deep is Deep Enough?"
 
Researchers at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution are studying the use of the deep sea floor for disposal of sewage sludge. The sludge would be lowered about 16,000 feet in giant, leak-proof buckets and deposited on teh ocean bottom. Environmental groups oppose the plan, fearing it would profoundly alter the ocean's fragile ecosystem.
 
Most sea plants and animals inhabit depths above the proposed deep-sea sites.
 
Remote controlled, submersible vehicles would monitor the dump sites.
 
At three to four miles deep, most sea creatures cannot survive the crushing pressure, total darkness and extreme cold. Worms and other low forms of life are the only organisms suited to conditions at 16,000 feet.
 
(Sources: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Massachusetts Institute of Technology) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON MERCHANT MARINE AND FISHERIES; WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION ; CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON MERCHANT MARINE AND FISHERIES; WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION ; CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); EARTH (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INCINERATORS; LANDFILL; LAW AND LEGISLATION; OCEANS OCEANOGRAPHY (92%); OCEANS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (87%); FISHERIES (86%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); LANDFILLS (74%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (74%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (73%); WASTE REDUCTION (72%); SOLID WASTE REGULATION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; HOLLISTER, CHARLES D (DR); NORSE, ELLIOTT A (DR)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



63 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

 
Shuttle Glides Back Home
 The space shuttle Atlantis landed flawlessly in California after cutting short its mission because of a mechanical failure. Page A15.
 
Bridgeport U. at the Brink

Behind the University of Bridgeport's struggle lie pressures felt by many colleges. News Analysis, page B1.
 
Symbolism Over Substance
 Symbolic politics, not economic policy, has become the driving force in the rush to do something about the recession. News analysis, page A13.
 
Piece in Subatomic Puzzle
 Scientists offer new evidence that ghostly subatomic particles called neutrinos could hold the key to answering one of the most daunting questions of cosmology. Page B7.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); ASTROPHYSICS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); PUBLIC POLICY (84%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



64 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: PRAYERS ANSWERED FOR EMIGRES IN U.S.

 BODY:
In the grimmest days of World War II, when he was a starving Ukrainian partisan besieged by German forces on one side and Soviet troops on the other, Stephen Maksymiw said he endured by whispering to himself over and over that one day the Ukraine would be free.
Nearly 50 years later, as he prayed yesterday morning in St. George's Ukrainian Catholic Church in Manhattan, Mr. Maksymiw said he felt that his dream had finally come true. 
 As a chorus sang hymns in Ukrainian, he kneeled in the Byzantine-style church at 33 East 7th Street in the East Village with hundreds of Ukrainians who came to give thanks for what many called the stunning events in their homeland, which held a referendum on independence yesterday.
"To get freedom for our people, it is beautiful," said the 66-year-old Mr. Maksymiw, who came to the United States in 1949. "When I was freezing to death in World War II, I always told myself: 'One day, we will be a free people.' "
 
Celebrating Their Culture
 Many of the thousands of people of Ukrainian descent in the New York area spent yesterday reveling in a culture that they said had been suppressed by Moscow for decades; the pressures were particularly severe during World War II, when Ukrainian partisans fought against both Soviet and German troops.
Yesterday, Ukrainian-Americans attended services at Ukrainian Catholic and Orthodox churches, sat down to meals of borscht and dumplings, and telephoned relatives in the Ukraine for news of the voting, in which the republic's voters were reportedly favoring independence by a large margin.
Many gravitated to the East Village, long the center of Ukrainian emigres in New York City, where some greeted one another with the traditional welcome of "Slawa Isusu Khrystu!" ("Praise be Jesus Christ!")
St. George's, an onion-domed building decorated with gold mosaics, is at the heart of an area that also features a Ukrainian Baptist church, museum, community center and youth center, as well as Kiev, perhaps one of the few 24-hour Ukrainian restaurants in the world. St. George's, which conducts services only in Ukrainian, abuts Taras Shevchenko Place, named after the Ukrainian nationalist poet.
 
'The News Is Incredible'
 "The dominant spirit is the people can hardly believe this is happening in their lifetime," said the Rev. Patrick Paschak of St. George's, whose parents are from the western Ukraine. "Many of these people are refugees. All they have known is 70 years of Communism. So the news is incredible for them. It suddenly happened out of nowhere."
The Ukrainian Central Information Service, an independent news organization, says 1.75 million Ukrainian-Americans live in the United States; the largest concentrations are in the metropolitan areas of New York, with 200,000 people, Chicago and Philadelphia.
The Ukrainian Mission to the United Nations, whose existence is a legacy of maneuvering by Stalin in negotiations over the organization's charter, was flooded with calls last week from Ukrainian-Americans who wanted to vote in the referendum. But it was open only to Ukrainian citizens, said the republic's chief delegate at the United Nations, Gennadi I. Udovenko.
"Everyone is so highly emotional here," Mr. Udovenko said. "Everyone wants to do something for the Ukraine."
Ukrainian citizens in the United States were able to vote at the Ukrainian Mission, Soviet missions and the Soviet Embassy.
At St. George's, parishioners leaving the 10 A.M. service gathered in front of the church, speaking in Ukrainian and English as they discussed the election and the republic's future.
"I cry all the time about it, from happiness," said Malyniak Miroslawa, 50, of Ridgewood, Queens, who came to the United States in 1979. "I am very nervous. Everything is so good. Today, everything is exciting."
Others feared that as the Soviet Union crumbled, the Ukraine would be left with a ruined economy.
"We are worried about a lot of problems," said Ihor Vitkovitsky, 59, who drove from Silver Spring, Md., for the service. "They can come from economic issues or from the historic aggressiveness of Russia."
But the overwhelming emotion was joy.
"We are going to be free," Mr. Maksymiw said. "Free!"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; UKRAINE (USSR) UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UKRAINIAN-AMERICANS; REFERENDUMS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS WORLD WAR II (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); RELIGION (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); REFERENDUMS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); REFUGEES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



65 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: MANDELA DEPARTS ON A VISIT TO U.S.

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Dec. 1

 BODY:
When Nelson Mandela first visited the United States a year and a half ago, he was greeted with a curiosity verging on adulation because of a stature attained over 27 1/2 years as the world's most admired political prisoner.
Tonight Mr. Mandela left for the United States on a less dramatic working visit, carrying a more complex message as the leader of the African National Congress. 
 At a news conference in his house in Soweto before departing for the airport, he emphasized that South Africa would need international assistance to recover from apartheid -- but that the aid should not be granted until the African National Congress says so.
"Without investment, our economy cannot grow," he said. "But we will be talking about investment in a post-apartheid South Africa, not now."
 
Opposes Rewards to Rulers
 Mr. Mandela does not want the white minority Government of President F. W. de Klerk to receive international rewards for the political reforms it has introduced over the last two years. Mr. Mandela has said that foreign Governments must instead let his nationalist movement decide when and how remaining sanctions against South Africa should be lifted.
He has much to accomplish in a single week. At the United Nations, Mr. Mandela is to address the General Assembly during its annual debate on South Africa and apartheid. He said he would appeal for contributions to subsidize the "safe and dignified return" of South Africa's political exiles, adding that the Government had refused to pay for their trips home and their resettlement.
In New York, Mr. Mandela plans to meet with more than 30 American foundations interested in helping in South Africa. He would not confirm reports that they were considering assistance channeled through a new development bank with the approval of the African National Congress.
' Mr. Mandela is to meet President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d on Thursday. Again, he refused to say what he would tell them.
 
Stops in Pittsburgh and Houston
 After the Washington meeting, he will go to Pittsburgh to address a group of about 200 chief executives of major American corporations. He winds up his American visit in Houston at the invitation of Texas's Governor, Ann Richards, and will mix with a cross-section of Texas legislators, businessmen and African-American leaders.
Mr. Mandela said he still opposed any further lifting of sanctions against South Africa for now. He said no move should be made to remove sanctions until a constituent assembly is elected to draft a new constitution for South Africa. He had previously said sanctions should be lifted once an interim government is in place. Mr. de Klerk has rejected both demands but has suggested that other transitional arrangements might be possible.
On Saturday, the Pretoria Government, the African National Congress and other political parties completed preparations for a convention on Dec. 20 and 21 that will effectively launch negotiations on the country's future.
The Pan-Africanist Congress walked out of the preparatory talks on Saturday after accusing the African National Congress of colluding with the Government. Mr. Mandela called the walkout "a classic storm in a teacup" today and predicted that the Pan-Africanists would return. Mr. Mandela said the congress was eager to strengthen Mr. de Klerk's position because "he is the only person we can negotiate with."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (91%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (91%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (NON-US); SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); FOREIGN AID; TRAVEL, PERSONAL INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (57%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (52%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; MANDELA, NELSON; DE KLERK, F W (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



66 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Asylum Policy for Haitian Refugees Stirs Debate on Fairness by the U.S.

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
The Bush Administration's response to an unanticipated flood of Haitian refugees in recent weeks has opened a new debate over whether Washington has a consistent policy on political asylum, particularly in the Caribbean and Central America.
As the Administration looks for ways to undo a court order temporarily barring the forced return of Haitians to a country run by a military Government that Washington does not recognize, critics have charged that damage is being done to America's image and reputation as a nation of safe haven. They contrast the treatment of the Haitians with the Administration's opposition to the forced repatriation of Vietnamese boat people from the British colony of Hong Kong, and with the welcome the United States has extended to to Cuban refugees over the years. 
 Hearings resume Monday in a Federal court in Miami on whether the state order will be lifted and the United States will be allowed to resume the repatriations.
 
'Migration Emergency' Asked
 Beyond the court case, there are demands in Congress and across a spectrum of religious, professional, human rights and refugee groups that the Administration declare a "migration emergency" for Haitians and abandon its forced repatriation policy in favor of more humanitarian measures until democracy is restored in Haiti and the American-led embargo against the poorest nation in the hemisphere can be lifted.
The Administration contends that because the large majority of Haitians are not victims of political persecution, they do not qualify for political asylum, even though many of them are now fleeing a general climate of political turmoil as well as economic deprivation. It says its repatriation policy saves lives by deterring many more Haitians from leaving aboard unseaworthy vessels.
The Coast Guard has picked up 5,914 Haitians in the Caribbean since Oct. 29, more than 2,000 in the last week. Of those, 2,753 are now on Coast Guard cutters, 1,019 are on Navy vessels and the rest have been taken either to a tent city being set up for them at the United States Navy base at Guantanamo, Cuba, or to temporary shelters in Honduras, Venezuela and Belize.
Fewer than 200 Haitians have been allowed to apply for asylum, even though many of the refugees say their reason for leaving Haiti is its climate of growing repression, violence and fear in the aftermath of the military coup that ousted the democratically elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, on Sept. 30.
 
'Temporary Status' Urged
 A consensus is growing that Haitians should as a class be considered for "temporary protected status" under a 1990 amendment to the Immigration and Nationality Act. A full review of immigration and asylum policies could then follow. In the last year this provision has benefited groups of Salvadorans, Palestinians driven from Kuwait, Liberians, Lebanese and Somalis.
"There has been a controversy for 10 years as to whether the Haitians are refugees or not, and it is not going to get resolved in the midst of this crisis," said Dennis Gallagher, executive director of the independent Refugee Policy Group in Washington. "This in an emergency, and it would be wrong to send these people back."
He and other experts in refugee policy see a political aspect to the Administration's policy as an election year approaches. President Jimmy Carter was thought to have been hurt by the arrival of thousands of Haitians in Florida during a relaxation in policy. President Ronald Reagan tightened the policy in his first year in office, and signed the 1981 agreement with Haiti establishing the policy of forced repatriation.
The United States forcibly returned 538 Haitians on Nov. 18 and 19, under a decision that members of Congress and refugee advocates say was made in the National Security Council at the urging of Brent Scowcroft, President Bush's national security adviser. The State Department will say only that the plan was approved "at Cabinet level."
In keeping the Haitians at sea or in accommodations off the mainland, the Administration's intent apparently is to deny them the automatic right to apply for asylum or to seek legal counsel, as many Haitians who arrive in the United States by air now do. But in the court hearing in Miami on Monday, refugee organizations will argue that once in the custody of the Coast Guard or other American services, the Haitians should be considered in American jurisdiction if not actually on American territory.
Arthur C. Helton of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and others take the position that whether or not they are on American territory, the Haitians cannot be returned under international obligations and laws.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has asked all countries in the Caribbean basin where Haitian refugees have landed not to return them.
Critics say the treatment of the Haitians is unfair especially in light Washington's treatment of Cuban refugees. Cubans have benefited from the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, which made qualifying for asylum easier because they are fleeing the Communist Government of President Fidel Castro. Haitians have traditionally found it very difficult to qualify as refugees and apply formally for asylum. The anomaly has provoked charges of racism from Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Manhattan Democrat, and other members of Congress.
Gene McNary, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, whose interviewers ride Coast Guard cutters to interview Haitians picked up at sea, told a Congressional subcommittee on Nov. 20 that the agency was being unfairly blamed for treating Cubans better.
"The simple fact is that because of the Cuban Adjustment Act, Cuban nationals are treated differently under the law," he said. He added that this law, plus the near impossibility of returning Cubans to Cuba -- except for some criminal and other special cases arising from the Mariel boatlift of 1980 -- accounted for the high percentage of Cubans allowed to remain in the United States.
Mr. Helton says an Immigration and Naturalization Service internal memorandum of Nov. 12 now in the hands of refugee advocates argues that interviews with fleeing Haitians -- conducted aboard cutters under new rules and procedures introduced eight months ago by Mr. McNary -- are proving increasingly inconclusive and of rapidly decreasing validity.
 
15,000 Came in 1980
 After a Federal judge ordered a halt to the return of Haitians on Nov. 19, the Administration has made repeated attempts to reverse the order in court so that repatriations could resume. Administration officials say any blanket change in policy would open the gates to an unknown number of Haitians trying to reach the United States for economic reasons. In 1980, 15,000 came in boats when there was no political crisis in Haiti. The Administration argues that the repatriation of Haitians under the 1981 treaty deters others from risking their lives at sea, and that no Haitian returned has suffered persecution.
On Tuesday, however, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights estimated that at least 1,500 lives have been lost in Haiti since the Sept. 30 coup. The commission, part of the Organization of American States, met on Thursday to consider reports of detention, torture and harassment of Haitians opposed to military rule. The commission announced, without naming sources of evidence, that two burial pits had been found on Nov. 12 containing the bodies of 60 people, some of them children.
After an emergency session of the O.A.S last week, , it was announced that the human rights commission would send a team to Haiti this week to investigate these and other allegations.
The House of Representatives Select Committee on Hunger believes that the embargo has been so successful that food and other crucial humanitarian aid to Haitian children and other vulnerable people is in jeopardy. The committee, in a letter to the O.A.S., said a shortage of fuel and the general security situation was severely hampering distribution of relief supplies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Critics charge that the United States' treatment of Haitian refugees has hurt its reputation as a safe haven. Haitians moved into temporary housing last week at the American naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CUBA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); SOMALIA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); LEBANON (79%); BELIZE (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CUBA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); SOMALIA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); LEBANON (79%); BELIZE (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOAT PEOPLE; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); NAVIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); COUPS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (62%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BARBARA BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



67 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Town Learns Indians Are Taking Most of It Back

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARROLLTON, N.Y.

 BODY:
Dayrll Wetherby drove every nail in his house here.
A Vietnam veteran, he spent a decade building the split-level home: He hauled the stone for the foundation from a creek, felled and milled oaks for the three-inch-thick stairs, laid the floor joints, and hoisted the roof's center beam on his back. 
 But now the Seneca Indians are claiming the ownership of not just the Wetherbys' land, but their house and the homes of about 6,600 other residents of this village and the nearby town of Salamanca, a once bustling railway hub that is the only town in the country built almost entirely on an Indian reservation.
When the Wetherbys moved their house a mile to get it off the reservation, the tribe's leader said the Senecas still owned it. And in an explosive war of nerves, about 50 families have obtained permits to dynamite their homes rather than to turn them over to the Senecas.
 
Residents Increasingly Militant
 "They say, 'If I can't have it, nobody is going to have it,' " said Joseph Fluent, president of the Salamanca Coalition of United Taxpayers or Scout, a group of 1,200 increasingly militant residents who captured every municipal office in recent elections. "I don't think they're going to accept the situation."
The residents have demanded a Congressional hearing that could reopen a wound bandaged over last month when President Bush signed an agreement to pay the Indians a total of $60 million to make up for decades of exploitation.
The battle has already exposed long-simmering tensions between the Indians and the non-Indian residents, many of whom built homes, businesses and factories on land leased 99 years ago for as little as $1 a year.
Both sides see themselves as victims fighting to preserve their heritage and to correct wrongs forced on them by outsiders. The Senecas say that residents are merely trying to continue a tradition of taking advantage of the Indians.
"This is just a sheep in wolf's clothing," said Calvin John, the Seneca President. "Their real beef is the rental payment. They've become accustomed to cheap rent. All we're interested in is getting our land back. We need it because we're running out of land for our own people."
 
Leases and Liquor
 The dispute's roots stretch back centuries to when the area was a speck in a vast Seneca territory. When the first railroad companies began to lay tracks through the Allegheny River Valley in the mid-1800's, white settlers started making deals with the Senecas. Many were illegal, but by the time they were questioned, the city was thriving. Bowing to intense lobbying, Congress validated the leases in 1875.
Then in 1892 tribal leaders were reportedly plied with liquor and coerced into signing a 99-year-agreement that all sides now agree was unjust. Negotiations to renew the lease, which expired Feb. 19, sputtered for a decade, creating uncertainty that accelerated the town's decline.
Driving through Salamanca now is like moving into America's Depression past: one low-slung, boarded-up building after another. Industrial skeletons sit vacant on shadowy side streets, ghosts of an era when the city was alive with a promising future and when freight cars, filled with logs, rattled dishes in dining rooms on the way to eastern markets.
The poverty becomes even more desperate outside of town, where most of the reservation's 3,500 Senecas live in ramshackle huts without plumbing.
 
A Sovereign Nation
 The tension was only aggravated by last year's announcement of the new lease. It raised some rents to $2,000 a year, from as little as $1, as part of a 40-year lease worth a total of $800,000 annually, and called on the state and Federal governments to pay the Senecas $60 million.
The deal outraged many residents. And since 90 percent of Salamanca is on the Allegany Reservation, a sovereign nation nestled against the Pennsylvania border 60 miles south of Buffalo, they cannot sue the Senecas for contract violations.
"I'm a World War II veteran and lost a boy in Vietnam and I don't have any rights," protested Ronald Havers, a 67-year-old resident.
Members of Scout were also infuriated by the failure to address the question of who owns the homes, which under New York State law are assumed to belong to the landlord, the Indians. Both sides said the issue would have complicated the already intractable negotiations.
Jennifer Coleman, a lawyer for Scout who unsuccessfully challenged the deal, said she was rebuffed when she tried to raise the question. "We were told we're crazy," she said. "We were told the nation would never assert their ownership."
 
'It Was the American Dream'
 But the residents worried.
When Mr. Wetherby moved into his house with his wife, Gail, there was little more a frame covered by black plastic. The bitter winter wind, sweeping off Lake Erie nearby, whistled through the home. To keep warm, the couple huddled around a wood stove in the basement.
"Our house: it was the American dream," Mrs. Wetherby said. She said she was so upset about the prospect of losing it that she couldn't sleep. "I wanted peace, just peace," she said.
Her husband added: "This house is where my kids were born. Knowing that this situation is only going to get worse, I felt no one is going to take my home from me. No one."
Two months ago, the Wetherbys tried to make sure. They jacked up the house and moved it to a plot of family land a mile off the reservation. In a carefully worded letter, Mr. John, the Seneca leader, responded by laying claim to the home and demanding that the Wetherbys restore the property to its "original condition, usefulness and value."
Representative Amory Houghton Jr., the Corning Republican who represents the area and helped broker the lease, dismissed the residents' fears and said they should refocus their energies on rebuilding the town's economic base.
"There are many uncertainties in life," he said. "Can a problem be made out of it? Absolutely, as there can be out of anything. But the whole tone has to be moved from the past to the future. We're asking the community to concentrate on building what could be a very exciting place. The Indians own the land. Period. Paragraph. End of story."
But Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, while advising residents to make another effort to work out a compromise with the Senecas, said he expected that Congress would have to enter the dispute.
"These people shouldn't be abandoned," he said. "Do you just allow people to be dumped? No."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I don't think they're going to accept the situation," Joseph Fluent said of his group of 1,200 residents who are fighting the Seneca Indians' claim to ownership of the town of Salamanca, N.Y. (pg. B1); "All we're interested in is getting our land back," said Calvin John, head of the Seneca Nation of Indians, which claims it owns Salamanca, N.Y. "We need it because we're running out of land for our own people." (pg. B5) (Joe Traver for The New York Times)
 
Map of New York showing location of Salamanca. (pg.B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SALAMANCA (NY); CARROLLTON (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; SENECA NATION OF INDIANS; HOUSING VIETNAM WAR (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); LOBBYING (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GRUSON, LINDSEY GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



68 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Man's Plight Typifies Neediest

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
Two years ago, David Gonzalez and his family had a six-room home. A year later, he, his wife and their three children were living in a station wagon.
"My kids became quiet and withdrawn -- they held everything in," the 32-year-old Harlem native said last week. "But sometimes they'd ask me, 'Daddy, how come no one will hire you?' 
 "I ask myself the same question all the time."
Mr. Gonzalez is among the thousands of New Yorkers who have been transformed by the recession from hard-working breadwinners to bewildered dependents on public assistance. For many, the decline has been marked by hunger, by homelessness and, most damaging, by relentless self-reproach.
 
80th Annual Appeal
 And like Mr. Gonzalez, many of them have turned reluctantly but ineluctably to the seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
The fund, which began its 80th annual appeal yesterday, has provided Mr. Gonzalez and his family with food when they were hungry and clothes when they were cold.
Mr. Gonzalez said he "entered the twilight zone" in February 1989, when he was laid off from his $45,000-a-year job in Seattle, where he worked as an aviation mechanic for the Lockheed Corporation.
 
Slept in Parked Car
 For the first six months he supported his family with unemployment benefits and his savings while searching for a job. He started with the airlines and aircraft manufacturers, then security concerns, mail rooms and dozens of other companies. "No one was hiring," he said. "They were all firing."
When relatives told him there were plenty of jobs back in New York, he sold his furniture for $1,500, loaded his family into a station wagon given him by a church, and headed East.
He came home to nothing.
"All the people that told us to come back, when we got here they were like, 'What are you doing here?' " he said. "We had no place to live, so we parked the car on nice streets in Brooklyn and slept there."
At night, Mr. Gonzalez said, he would sit awake in the front seat of the car and try to figure out "what I had done wrong."
Sometimes he would walk off to a field or a playground and "scream, yell, say all the things I couldn't in front of my wife and the kids."
 
Swallowed His Pride
 By day he would job-hunt. He drove out to the aeronautical companies on Long Island and took the subway into Manhattan to interview for positions he saw in the want ads. "No one would hire me because times were tight and I wasn't really looking very good, living in a car and all."
After three weeks, he said, he swallowed his pride and took his family to the Cumberland shelter in Brooklyn. They shared a common space with dozens of other families, thousands of roaches and packs of mice and rats. It was difficult for everyone, especially his children, Christine, 10; David, 8, and Stephanie, 4.
"They didn't say much, but I could hear them crying at night," Mr. Gonzalez said.
He took four exams for city jobs, and applied for security-guard and janitor positions. He tried to enlist in the Army, the Navy and the Air Force, but they turned him down, he said, because it would have been a hardship on his three children. When the Persian Gulf War broke out, he reapplied, but to no avail.
The Gonzalezes' luck started to turn earlier this year, when they were given their own small apartment in a housing project on Staten Island and Mr. Gonzalez's wife, Lourdes, found work as a medical assistant.
She had never worked before, he said, and it was difficult to accept that she was supporting the family.
"I know it's hard for him," Mrs. Gonzalez said.
Today, she brings home $350 a week while Mr. Gonzalez cares for the children, cleans the apartment and continues his job hunt.
"Times are tough," he said, shaking his head.
 
Recorded so far . . . $1,064,955.86

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (87%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); CHARITIES (70%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); AIRLINES (65%); AIRCRAFT MFG (65%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



69 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Deciding on Sites for Shelters: A Faceless Numbers-Cruncher

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
IN a nondescript, windowless office two miles from City Hall, an unelected, unfeeling and faceless numbers-cruncher with more personality than some public officials and more power than most quietly decided earlier this year whether a shelter for homeless people might be built in your backyard.
This high-priced bureaucrat derives power from Chapter 8, Section 203a of the revised city charter. Also from an electrical outlet. Meet the 1990's incarnation of the political machine: an I.B.M. 3090 computer. It was enlisted by the city to help formulate its proposed dispersal of the homeless from barracks-style dormitories to two dozen smaller shelters scattered in every borough. 
 The shelter plan represents the first test of the charter's idealistic framework for injecting fairness into the process of choosing sites for largely undesirable city projects. The charter actually refers to the fair distribution of "burdens and benefits associated with city facilities." These days, though, even parks and school projects can generate local resistance. And it is questionable whether people afraid for their safety or property values will be comforted by being told that their share of the burden is not disproportionate.
The doctrine raises some fundamental questions: Do statistically correct quotas always represent the most proper and practical solution? Are patients better served in remote self-contained shelters or in stable communities that are not conducive to antisocial behavior? Where is land cheapest? Should sites for shelters be debated separately? Or should officials consider the cumulative impact of all existing and proposed projects in a community? If so, how do they assess the relative burden of a homeless shelter and of an incinerator?
Will the impact on middle-class communities provoke lawsuits, like one against a proposed Volunteers of America residence by the West 97-98th Streets Block Association, and another in which a court found that Federal officials had inadequately weighed the Atlantic Terminal renewal project's potential for displacing poor people who live in nearby Brooklyn neighborhoods?
An analysis by the Citizens Housing and Planning Council, a nonprofit monitor, asks: Should the location of a branch library, a presumed benefit, be determined by which community includes branches with the most books, the most books per resident or the number of books circulated compared with the size of the collection? Should the location of a shelter that meets citywide needs be calculated according to the ratio of residential social service beds to the total population or to the welfare population?
"Unfortunately," said Joseph B. Rose, the planning council's executive director, "the desire to impose a greater degree of 'fairness' in the locating of various city facilities is more easily articulated as a political aspiration than codified as a set of regulations governing the placement of facilities as diverse as libraries and sewage treatment plants."
The Department of City Planning incorporated the advice of Mr. Rose and others in drafting, if not necessarily in following, its broad guidelines. Then, the computer was fed the precise location of 66,206 residential beds in shelters, foster group homes, and other city centers, except nursing homes and jails; and the inventory of vacant sites of more than 35,000 square feet.
The computer spewed out 490 locations after exempting 20 community districts deemed to be oversaturated. Its human handlers ruled out 252 and visited the remaining 238, eventually culling 35 -- a third of them in commercial or industrial settings -- from which 24 are to be selected.
From the beginning, the Dinkins administration sought to enlist other elected officials in the process and is doing so again. Except for Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, many preferred the political cover of the computer.
Richard L. Schaffer, the planning department's director, and Rosina K. Abramson, the executive director, maintain that fair share is not a mechanistic formula. Rather, they say, the computer-generated suggested sites and the eight criteria for alternatives represent just the first phase of the process. Moreover, the charter also requires that sites be "consistent with community needs and efficient and cost-effective delivery of services."
Fair share, said Frederick A. O. Schwarz Jr., chairman of the Charter Revision Commission, "forces politicians and the public, including the affluent communities, to think about the fundamental social pathologies causing the problems and not, like Pontius Pilate, to wash their hands of these problems by hiding them."
In Jim Menick's novel, "Lingo," a computer gets to be president, but makes a fatal miscalculation: by becoming too accessible to the public, he is no longer feared or respected. When the public demands, Are you a man or a mouse?, a politician has more discretion than a computer. Artificial intelligence is no substitute for common sense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); QUOTAS CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); CITIES (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); POLITICS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (66%); LIBRARIES (65%); LITIGATION (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



70 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: New Clue in Mystery of Nature's Forces

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Measurements of a rare form of radioactive decay have produced what scientists say is new evidence that subatomic particles called neutrinos could hold the key to fundamental forces of nature and one of the most daunting questions of cosmology: what is the mass -- and fate -- of the universe?
Among the most elusive particles known to science, neutrinos can emerge from radioactive decay of atomic nuclei -- indeed their existence was first theorized to explain a deficit of energy during such decay -- and they are everywhere, traveling close to the speed of light. Yet they interact with ordinary matter only very rarely, so that swarms of them are always passing through earth unimpeded and virtually undetected. Neutrinos have no electric charge and, it had been thought, no mass. 
 Now, scientists at the University of Chicago and the Los Alamos National Laboratory say they have observed an unusual natural process in which uranium atoms were transformed into plutonium-238 at a rate 100 times faster than predicted by current theory. They interpreted the phenomenon to mean that neutrinos do have mass, perhaps more than indicated by recent experiments.
The research is being reported today in the Physical Review Letters by Dr. Anthony Turkevich and Dr. Thanasis Economou, both of the University of Chicago, and Dr. George Cowan of Los Alamos.
Dr. Turkevich, professor emeritus of chemistry, said in a telephone interview that the findings constituted "another, independent line of evidence pointing toward neutrinos' having mass."
 
Far-Reaching Implications
 If neutrinos with mass exist, it could have far-reaching implications for theories of particle physics and cosmology. The ghostly neutrinos could be a major component of the hypothesized "missing mass" of the universe, mass whose gravitational effects have been observed though the source has never been identified. The gravitational influence of the missing mass is considered a major factor in the evolution of galaxies and perhaps the entire universe.
According to calculations of the probable average density of matter in the universe, no more than 10 percent of its predicted mass has actually been detected by direct or even indirect observations.
If it turns out that the universe has less than the predicted mass, it would then lack the gravity sufficient to halt its expansion. It would go on forever, stretched thinner and bleaker. If the universe has more than what is considered the probable amount of mass, in the form of neutrinos or some other unseen matter, its gravity would eventually rein in the expansion, causing it to collapse in what cosmologists call the Big Crunch.
Scientists hailed the Chicago-Los Alamos research as a potentially significant addition to the growing evidence for the existence of neutrinos with mass. But they cautioned that this might not be accepted as the definitive solution to the mystery.
 
'Tantalizing Hints'
 Dr. David N. Schramm, an astrophysicist at the University of Chicago, said that confirming the mass of neutrinos "would be tremendously important for particle physics, cosmology and astrophysics," but "we're not at that point yet, though there are a lot of tantalizing hints around the edges."
Dr. John N. Bahcall, an authority on neutrinos at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, N.J., said, "The evidence is becoming increasingly clear that neutrinos have a small but finite mass."
But he said scientists were reserving judgment on the validity of the new findings. They were concerned, he said, by the possibility of contamination mimicking the observed radioactive decay and the extreme difficulty in interpreting the energies produced by the process.
But Dr. Turkevich said the measurements, first made a year ago, were not reported until the researchers could rule out to their satisfaction any contamination or other explanation.
"Either the standard model is wrong and neutrinos have mass, or we don't know how to calculate the decay rates of such heavy nuclei," Dr. Turkevich said.
 
Testing a Pure Substance
 Dr. Wick Haxton, a professor of physics at the University of Washington at Seattle, was especially skeptical. "It's almost certainly the second explanation," he said, when told of Dr. Turkevich's statement.
But Dr. Haxton praised the research as "a beautiful and very important experiment."
For the experiment, Dr. Turkevich's team used a sample of pure uranium salt that had been stored at the Chicago campus for 33 years. It had been purified in 1956, before nuclear-powered spacecraft and atmospheric tests of atomic weapons had spread some plutonium fallout.
The scientists analyzed the sample for signs of the rare form of radioactive decay known as double beta decay. In normal beta decay, a neutron in the center of an atom changes to a proton, creating an electron and a neutrino in the process. In double beta decay, two neutrons decay simultaneously to produce a daughter nucleus that is heavier than the parent. In uranium-238, this turns the uranium atoms into atoms of plutonium-238.
In their measurement of plutonium extracted from the sample, the scientists reported that one part in 100 million trillion of the original uranium had decayed to plutonium-238. They said this provided the first direct evidence that plutonium-238 occurs in nature.
This double beta decay rate is exceedingly slow, the slowest ever observed in nature, millions of trillions of years, Still, Dr. Turkevich said it was 100 times faster than foreseen by the most recent theoretical estimates. These estimates were based on the standard model of the behavior of elementary particles and the fundamental forces of nature based, among other things, on the premise that neutrinos lack mass.
 
Results of Other Research
 Dr. Turkevich said the faster decay observed could be explained if neutrinos had a mass of about 14 electron volts, a measure of energy related to a particle's mass.
Other research in the laboratory and with underground detectors, searching for neutrinos from the sun and in cosmic rays, has produced preliminary results suggesting that some neutrinos have mass. But their masses are apparently no greater than one ten-thousandth to one one-hundredth of an electron volt, in which case they would have less effect on cosmic evolution. Measurements of double beta decay in germanium indicate that neutrinos can have a mass no greater than 1.6 electron volts.
The most puzzling and controversial finding raises the possibility that some neutrinos may have a mass as great as 17,000 electron volts. The difference between this and other estimates of mass, Dr. Bahcall said, is "like the difference between a huge truck and a tiny pea."
The evidence for the neutrino with extreme mass was found in 1985 by Dr. J. J. Simpson of the University of Guelph in Canada, who was studying single beta decay in tritium, a form of hydrogen. Efforts to duplicate and confirm the results have produced mixed results, and much consternation.
"Such a massive neutrino doesn't fit with anything theoretically," Dr. Bahcall said. "If it's correct, we will have a real mess in astronomy and a real mess in physics."
Recent experiments with underground detectors in Japan, Ohio and the Soviet Union have encouraged scientists to believe that answers to the question of neutrinos with mass may be within their reach. They said new results on neutrinos from the sun were expected to be reported soon from the Soviet-American detector operating deep in a mine in the Caucasus.
Dr. David Caldwell, a physicist at the University of California at Santa Barbara, said that the "theoretical prejudice" now was that neutrinos have mass, but that it was by no means certain that any of the current experiments will provide unambiguous proof.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PHYSICS; NEUTRINOS; UNIVERSE; SPACE; URANIUM; PLUTONIUM PARTICLE PHYSICS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PHYSICS (90%); NUCLEAR CHEMISTRY (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); CHEMISTRY (78%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (78%); POWER FAILURES (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



71 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Economics '92-Style;
Thus Far, All the Talk by Politicians About What Can Be Done Is Just That

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
Deep down, most of the senior Republicans and Democrats in Washington, including President Bush and much of the leadership in the Senate and House of Representatives, doubt that there is much they can do in the next few months to boost the economy to any significant degree.
Even a pre-Christmas tax cut, the subject of so much wrangling last week, would probably not have any significant impact until well into 1992. 
 But you would never know it to listen to the politicians because they have decided that the political mood forbids inaction. They rant and rave, Democrats hurling thunderbolts at Republicans and vice versa, hoping the voters will not notice how perilously little scope for real action they have.
 
To Cut or Not to Cut?
 So desperate is the search for symbols of commitment and compassion, two of the code words in this enterprise, that Mr. Bush found himself backing last week, at first reluctantly and then with as much conviction as he could summon, a tax-cut proposal by a group of mavericks in the House, while the Democratic leadership, without much more enthusiasm, discussed the possibility of a special session on tax-cutting next month. Neither side, truth to tell, had any clear idea of where "growth promotion" measures might lead them or the country.
The day after Thanksgiving, the President went shopping at a J. C. Penney store near Camp David in a bit of symbol-mongering as transparent as Michael S. Dukakis's much-derided ride in a tank in the last Presidential race.
"This is about politics, not about economics," a senior Democratic senator said over the weekend. "It's about the politics of 1992."
On the evidence of recent weeks, those politics are not going to be much more substantive than those of the 1988 campaign, in which symbols of race and patriotism -- Willie Horton and the flag factory -- scarcely veiled the failure of the candidates to discuss the momentous changes that were even then foretelling the end of the Cold War, with all of the promise and peril that implied.
Mr. Bush has tried one gambit after another to suggest that he understood the pain felt by the unemployed and millions of other Americans. He postponed a trip to Asia, scheduled to start this week, to work on the economy, when he, in fact, had no plans. He impulsively suggested a cap on credit-card interest rates and that rattled the stock market. He challenged and ridiculed the Democrats on Capitol Hill in one breath and called for an end to partisan conflict, especially where the economy was concerned, with the next.
Sometimes he seems ready to take the advice of conservatives and other combative elements in his party who say the most important thing is to portray the Democrats as impeding progress. Sometimes not.
Already, the President has gone back on his pledge of no new taxes that many backers considered his single strongest campaign card in 1988. They fear that he will be pushed by the Democrats, and indeed by some within his own party, into a position in which he has a most unpalatable choice: either to sign a tax cut for the middle class and make the budget deficit even larger in the hope of stimulating the economy, or to veto it and thus reinforce the idea that Republicans are the party of the fat cats.
Faced with a campaign in which a David Duke candidacy might make it hard for Mr. Bush to exploit racial fears without seeming racist himself and in which there is likely to be little mileage in the old Republican tactic of accusing the Democrats of being soft on Communism, the President and his advisers are fully aware of the importance of the economy in the election. But they have given the impression of hand-wringing rudderlessness. This week's Economist magazine overstates the case, perhaps, but catches the mood with its front-page headline: "President Panic."
Curiously, there was another President Bush also on display last week -- the one who made the bold decision that the United States would have to hold out the promise of early recognition to the Ukraine, if it voted for independence, in the hope that such a prospect would prompt the Ukrainian leaders to make concessions on such important questions as foreign loans and nuclear arms.
That is the ahead-of-the-curve George Bush, the foreign-policy George Bush, the George Bush who built and maintained the coalition that won the war in the Persian Gulf. But that George Bush seems absent from the White House's search for an answer to the nation's economic problems; settle down, the President said in his Thanksgiving broadcast, and I'll tell you what I think in January. This is very different from the President who vowed from Day One that he would not permit Saddam Hussein of Iraq to retain his conquest of Kuwait.
Despite a good deal of fumbling and mindless partisanship, which has helped to drive Congress's standing in the polls to all-time lows, the Democrats have managed to resist Mr. Bush's proposals for cuts in the capital gains taxes by describing them as giveaways to the rich. They want to substitute help for the lower middle classes, especially the white urban voters whom Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan convinced, at least temporarily, to leave the Democratic party.
But all of that is short-term, largely symbolic stuff.
 
A Real Test, a Real Plan
 Much of the politics of the moment revolves around Mr. Bush, because for now, his foils are the Democratic leaders of Congress, whom relatively few voters see as authentic alternative voices to that of the President. The focus will change in the weeks ahead as George Bush the candidate for re-election finds himself pitted not against Thomas S. Foley or George J. Mitchell or even against a generic Candidate X, but against Tom Harkin and Bill Clinton and the other Democratic hopefuls.
As that happens, the focus may also gradually shift from what will alleviate short-term economic woes to ways to rebuild the economy for the longer term. Then the Democratic candidates will have to move beyond populist slogans to programs, especially if Mr. Bush makes good on his pledge to propose a domestic economic program in his State of the Union Message in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CUSTOM DECORATING (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); COLD WAR (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); THANKSGIVING (72%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



72 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Dubrovnik, Cultural Hostage in Yugoslav Turmoil

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

 BODY:
The threat to cultural monuments posed by the fighting in Yugoslavia has caused anguish and division among American specialists in Serbo-Croatian culture, many of whom trace their ancestry to that part of the world.
Of particular concern to scholars are reports of damage to the ancient walled city of Dubrovnik on the Adriatic Sea. The city's massive limestone walls -- up to 82 feet high, 19 feet thick and dating to the 13th century -- and many medieval buildings and artworks have earned Dubrovnik a place alongside Venice, Florence and Angkor Wat on the United Nations World Heritage List of monuments of "universal value." 
 Slobodan Curcic, a professor of art and archeology at Princeton who specializes in medieval architecture in the Balkans, said Dubrovnik was important because of its unusual state of preservation, its many important churches, monasteries and palaces, and the medieval artworks in church treasuries and museums.
"The city was badly damaged by an earthquake in the 17th century," Professor Curcic said, "but it was rebuilt in the medieval style. Afterward, its basic character was preserved because its location on a peninsula acted to prevent the Old City from becoming a modern city."
Among the notable buildings in Dubrovnik, which George Bernard Shaw once called an earthly paradise, are the 16th-century Sponza Palace, which combines Gothic and Renaissance architectural styles, as many of the city's oldest structures do; the 15th-century Rector's Palace, which has city records going back 1,000 years, and the Rupe Museum, which was built in 1590 as a granary.
 
The Human Cost
 The Serbo-Croatian civil war broke out after Croatia declared itself independent from Yugoslavia in June. Since then, the fighting has taken at least 3,000 lives, wounded thousands of soldiers and civilians and driven about 500,000 people from their homes. A precarious cease-fire has been in effect since Nov. 23, although sporadic fighting continues.
Dubrovnik's population of 58,000 is almost entirely Croatian. The Yugoslav Army and Navy, shelling the city from land and sea, have damaged the Stradun Promenade or main street, the Rupe Museum, the Minceta Tower, the Revelin Fortress and the top floor of Dubrovnik's synagogue, which was built in 1352.
Since then, damage to cultural monuments has been reported elsewhere in Croatia, notably the destruction of the dome of St. Jacob's Cathedral in the port city of Sibenik and extensive damage to the 18th-century Eltz Castle in Vukovar, a Baroque complex on the scale of Versailles. The World Monuments Fund, an international preservation organization, reports damage to 161 churches and monasteries, 129 palaces, 13 libraries and 3 archeological sites.
But there is no agreement among specialists in the United States on whether the damage has been intentional or accidental and on whether armed Croats have used cultural sites as sanctuaries.
 
An Appeal to Bush
 One of the more outspoken scholars is Ivo N. Banac, a professor of Balkan history at Yale University and a native of Dubrovnik. Professor Banac said in an interview that he had been receiving almost daily reports of destruction in Dubrovnik from colleagues in the city, including a British professor of philosophy at the Inter-University Center there.
Professor Banac said that he and colleagues in the United States had urged President Bush to protest what they regarded as the "systematic cultural vandalism" by the Yugoslav Army.
Professor Curcic, who is of Serbian ancestry and grew up in Belgrade, the capital of Yugoslavia, said he feared that any reports emanating from Dubrovnik would be propagandistic.
"Unequivocally, I would oppose any destruction of cultural monuments," he said, "but I have seen no photographs of actual destruction in Dubrovnik. It is inconceivable to me that in all of Dubrovnik there is not one camera. Until I see authentic photographs, I do not wish to be used to promote the propaganda of either side."
Alex Dragnich, an emeritus professor of social sciences at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, who is of Serbian descent and worked in the American Embassy in Belgrade from 1947 to 1950, said that although he considered himself impartial in the civil war, he had been told by friends in Yugoslavia that Croatian forces had sought shelter by establishing their bases in or near architectural monuments.
 
Many Are Bewildered
 Professor Dragnich pointed to a report in The Economist in Britain that such military installations were set up in the cities of Zadar and Sibenik. "That's a violation of the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property," he said.
Many American scholars of Serbian or Croatian ancestry confess their bewilderment with the many petitions and letters they are being asked to sign. "I am seven-eighths a Serb and one-eighth a Croat, and I feel the tragedy within my own body," said George Tomashevich, a professor of anthropology at the State University at Buffalo. "It is an immense tragedy. I won't sign any one-sided documents.
"Cultural monuments, even the most precious, can be restored, but a human life that is lost cannot be. I am not saying we should neglect cultural monuments, but what is more important is the brutalization of human life."
Professor Tomashevich said he and several colleagues had sent letters and telegrams to news organizations and public officials throughout the world urging a cease-fire under United Nations supervision, fearing that the present cease-fire would not hold.
"The Serbs and the Croats are like Siamese twins," he said. "They are joined at the hip with intertwined intestines but unfortunately also with two heads."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA); DUBROVNIK (YUGOSLAVIA) CROATIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE HISTORIC SITES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RELIGION (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); ARMIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (62%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



73 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Coming Back;
Tax Breaks: Stale Seduction

 BODY:
New York City's economy is in trouble. Unemployment is up 25 percent this year; nearly a million New Yorkers are now on welfare, the most in 15 years. Financial firms, including Morgan Stanley, an industry leader, are pondering leaving. And many other employers express revulsion over filthy streets, crime, aggressive panhandling and soaring drug use.
The common impulse is to demand remedies from City Hall. But even if City Hall were responding brilliantly to the gloom, there are no quick fixes. The city's maladies arise from fundamental forces over which government has little leverage. 
 City policies didn't bring on the telecommunications and computer revolutions, which have freed many businesses from having to locate in an urban core. Neither are any city policies responsible for the loss of U.S. competitiveness in textiles and other manufacturing. Neither is New York responsible for the Federal Government's abandoning responsibility for the poor, imposing an impossible burden on city taxpayers.
Just as city policies didn't create the economic mess, neither will they eradicate it. The forces driving companies out of central business districts to the suburbs and beyond may subside, even reverse. If so, the city government will be a spectator to these trends, not a prime mover.
Yet the city need not wait passively for unknown tidal forces. Intelligent development policies can't turn an economy right side up but they can improve the lives of millions. Long-term investment for the future might well spell the difference between prosperity and decay.
Economic development policies in New York, and other cities, frequently degenerate into quick-hitting tax breaks for businesses willing to locate in targeted neighborhoods and to placate big employers who threaten to move. But studies repeatedly fail to show a net benefit. Corporate location decisions turn more on labor costs and skills, services, transportation and suppliers than on taxes. Yet city after city waves tax breaks at corporate managers in a desperate attempt to keep them from moving.
The problem with targeted tax breaks is their invisible costs. Lower taxes for targeted companies mean higher taxes for everyone else, unless services are allowed to suffer. And those higher taxes will, in turn, drive some other companies to leave. There's also evidence that corporate managers negotiate circles around public officials -- wangling tax breaks for location decisions they would have made anyway.
Jawboning and peer pressure to keep a prominent company are always worth trying. Tax breaks carefully tailored to specific opportunities can make sense. But when holding a company costs a lot of city money, it's probably not worth it.
Indeed, that's the conclusion of a recent report issued by New York City's Office of Economic Development, led by Deputy Mayor Sally Hernandez-Pinero. It calls for a change in policy that would downplay attempts to discourage companies from moving in favor of policies designed to encourage start-up businesses.
Like what? A careful study recently completed by two economists at the University of Pennsylvania, Anita Summers and Peter Linneman, provides important clues. After examining the 60 largest metropolitan areas, they identified two factors that powerfully influence location decisions: the quality of a city's infrastructure and the educational attainment of its labor force.
The lessons are clear, and sobering. To attract new business, New York needs to keep its streets clean and well paved. It needs to maintain its transportation system, upgrade its telecommunications network and, above all, educate its youngsters. Carefully targeted tax breaks can help; but a policy of tax breaks is no answer.
This is not an easy lesson for politicians. Giving away tax breaks sounds good and looks easy because the lost revenues won't show up for years. Investing in public education and public facilities is costly now, and the dividends won't show up for years. Yet that is the only policy economists know can work, and it's the policy that will do the most to hasten New York City's climb back to strength.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRENDS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MAYORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); SUBURBS (66%); STARTUPS (64%); CORPORATE TAX (62%); PANHANDLING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



74 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
More Free Lunch

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
Suddenly politicians of every stripe are demanding a tax cut to "fight the recession." President Bush turned from opponent to enthusiast overnight. Democratic Congressional leaders called hearings for this week to explore their ideas and the President's.
The stampede tells us something about this country. It shows how addicted we are to fulfilling immediate desires, how unable to focus on long-term needs. It shows that we are still gripped by the faith of the Reagan years, though its ruinous effects are all about us: We believe that somewhere there is a free lunch. 
 Cutting taxes now is a bad idea on every count. Because the Federal deficit is so high, everyone proposing a cut promises that his plan will produce no net loss to the Treasury. If that is so, there will be no stimulus to the economy. Some other interest may be served -- undoing the Reagan tax law's tilt toward the rich, for example -- but not fighting the recession.
Some of the tax-cut plans would in fact have a contrary effect. One would pay for the cuts by a big reduction in defense spending, for example. But those paying lower taxes would save at least a little of the money, and spend some of it on imported goods. Result: Less spending in the U.S.
The idea of a tax cut is naturally enticing to Americans as a way of making up for what they have lost economically in recent years. Real wages have fallen in this country over the last two decades. Recession aside, middle-class people feel increasingly that their dream of a rising standard of living is gone.
But what is causing the economic pain -- what is impoverishing the United States in comparison with its international competitors -- is not high taxes. Our taxes are lower than those of any other major industrial country.
The reason for the deteriorating American position is lack of human and material investment. Over many years we have saved less and invested less than our competitors, and the problem is getting worse.
Reaganomics was supposed to cure all that -- induce Americans to save more from higher after-tax incomes. But it didn't work. We saved less. The Reagan economic shamans produced speculation, vast indebtedness, boom -- and now, inevitably, bust.
It is hardly surprising today if banks, burned by all those inflated real estate loans, are reluctant to lend -- whatever interest rates may be. So that hangover of the Reagan era deepens the recession. And so do the massive cuts that state and local governments are now making in their expenditure, in good part because they have lost so much Federal aid under Reagan-Bush policies.
There is a striking consensus among serious analysts that more than anything the United States needs to think of its long-term needs. Failure to do that means falling further behind Japan and Germany and the rest in technology and education.
Herbert Stein, the conservative economist, wrote recently in The Wall Street Journal that his answer to recession "would not be to increase the consumption of Middle America, which would be the main consequence of cutting taxes. I would rather fund Head Start fully, make sure that states have the money to provide the training, social services and jobs called for by the new welfare program, beef up the struggle against crime and keep the libraries and schools open."
Felix Rohatyn, the New York financial expert, called in The New York Review of Books for "a vast national public investment program." He pointed to what other countries are doing -- France, for instance, investing $100 billion in a new national high-speed rail system.
To say these things is to recognize that what the United States lacks is not resources. It is leadership.
For 10 years now we have had Presidents who told us that less would be more -- that the answer to our economic problems was to reduce taxes. We have had Presidents who through ignorance or political calculation would not talk economic sense to the American people.
Talking sense will not be easy for any leader. We are used to fantasy, and we do not want to hear hard truths about sacrificing and investing for the future. But someday someone will make us understand that there really is no such thing as a free lunch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); INTEREST RATES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



75 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Bringing The 'Dead Cat' to Life

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
What do you do when the right thing to do is not enough?
That's the Bush dilemma on the economy. The recovery that began this summer from the too-mild, too-short recession turned out to be a "dead cat bounce" -- a brief turn-up before a further sinking sensation. Because the consensus economic forecast turned out to be mistaken, public hand-wringing is rising as consumer confidence is sinking. 
 What's the right thing for the Federal Government to do? If the goal is another long period of prosperous, non-inflationary growth, the answer is no mystery: tough it out.
Monetary and fiscal stimulation are already in place. Interest rates are low and getting lower, the best incentive to borrow and to invest. On the budget side, the Government is pumping in deficit spending of $350 billion a year; the fiscal accelerator is already pressed to the floor.
The wrong thing to do would be to cut taxes or increase spending. That would dismay bond vigilantes and drive up interest rates, inviting recession to stick around another year, harming those most needing help.
At such a moment, a secure President with a passion for prudence would come before the people with a simple message:
The free-enterprise system includes this thing called the business cycle, which includes a downturn every 5 or 10 years. We all know what to do to help keep recessions short, and we've been doing it. The trick now is to suffer awhile, helping the worst hit along, but to avoid panicking and making a big mistake that would plunge us into the double-digit inflation and interest rates of the late 70's, which were followed by the worst bust of postwar times.
Unfortunately, our President, having lost 40 percentage points of light, is feeling insecure. The political opposition, along with the jobless and careerless, has been joined by the Chicken Little media in urging him to do something now, quick, to stop the pain -- to be the nation's daddy -- and he feels forced to respond lest he seem unresponsive, uncaring or unleaderly.
His own party piles on; House Republicans urge a tax cut because they believe there is never a bad time for a tax cut, and taxes as a percent of G.N.P. have never been higher; the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, ever the stalwart when least needed, declares the President must come up with a plan of action in the next six weeks or the game is up.
This is when the right thing to do -- to take the heat and stay the course, to refuse to make Jimmy Carter's economic mistakes -- needs a little something extra. Not action to "take command" -- ask the Soviets about command economies -- but enough visible activity to create confidence by giving the illusion of solving the problem.
The appearance of action is comforting, and the confidence it builds is necessary -- provided the soothing activity does not become genuine large-scale action (which is the wrong thing except in emergencies).
Now is the time for making a big deal out of relatively minor adjustments -- a challenge to raisin-pickers and a paradise for packagers.
To spur productive investment and break the ideological logjam over capital gains, change the name to "targeted job-creation deductions," which picks up Cuomo and Tsongas support and shifts the focus from fat-cat stock traders.
To raise investment savings and shore up banks, make I.R.A.'s deductible again except for cash-carrying richies.
To show an interest in kick-starting technical advances, start a pilot W.P.A. for a fiber-optic superhighway, offer workers job-training credits and bring back a small investment tax credit for businesses.
This sort of inspired tinkering cannot hurt; to the extent it calms fears by seeming like a bold program to save us from misperceived disaster, it can help. And everyone is already into the act; every candidate can take up a part of the President's scheme and claim it was stolen from him.
The point is to dazzle each other with economic footwork while not doing the wrong thing -- not overstimulating in political panic now at a cost to be paid by the job-entering generation.
Those of us not running for office can say: Fiddle around with creative ideas at the periphery, Mr. President and Congress, to show you're awake to the pain -- but don't mess with a system that is slowly getting itself well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (87%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



76 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Historical Forces Drove U.S. and Japan to War;
A New McCarthyism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The last decade of Reagan-Bush politics and economics have torn American society and unraveled United States-Japanese relations. Middle-class America is rapidly disappearing. The American economy is stuck in a debilitating recession with mounting unemployment. 
 Official unemployment figures mask heavy human casualties among middle- to upper-middle-income households that have eluded past recessions. We must count those involuntary part-time workers who cannot find full-time jobs and those dropouts who are too demoralized to continue seeking nonexistent jobs. I have recently estimated the effective unemployment rate in the United States at a whopping 14 percent, almost double the official number. If we count those who lost high-income jobs and are now driving taxis or bagging groceries at supermarkets, the truer number is nearly 18 percent.
In today's boundaryless world, lowered costs of borrowing capital in the United States prompt many American companies to take their borrowed money out of the country, close their United States operations and invest in places like Malaysia for their captive imports to the United States. The slogan "lean and mean for international competitiveness" has given many American executives an easy excuse to discard their workers, engineers and middle-level managers, the core of the American middle class.
Many companies have certainly become mean, but their failure to invest in human resources and manufacturing facilities in the United States has gutted the industrial fabric of American society and handicapped their international competitiveness. The trickle-down effects of President Bush's voodoo economics, like lowering interest rates, restricting Japanese imports and supporting tax cuts for the capital gains of rich Americans, will never materialize unless they are linked to non-money game investments by American corporations in the United States.
Many Americans are scared for their economic future. In 1988, they were attracted to President Bush for his race-baiting message. Once aroused and legitimized, however, their racial prejudice against nonwhite minorities is easily exploited by the likes of David Duke. They are being easily seduced to blame established politicians, big corporations and especially Japan and Japanese companies for their problems. A recent opinion poll showed that more than two-thirds of Californians support outright restrictions on Japanese imports and investments in the United States. To them, Japanese corporations appear as hostile, suspiciously nonwhite institutions.
Whenever disgruntled American employees of Japanese companies file a job discrimination complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, commission officials are so eager to please Representative Tom Lantos of California that they punish Japanese companies regardless of the merits of the complaints. This is McCarthyism.
I recently learned that the E.E.O.C. has pressured Recruit (U.S.A.) to deny me management consulting work to develop an E.E.O.C.-supervised seminar for Japanese executives in Japan. Pressing E.E.O.C. for an explanation, I was told that my public criticism of Mr. Lantos's witch hunting of Japanese companies angered him. If this happens to an individual, what chance do Japanese companies have from E.E.O.C.?
Fifty years have passed since Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor. United States-Japanese relations are rapidly sliding once again into a hostile phase.
 
YOSHI TSURUMI
Prof. of International Business
Baruch College, CUNY
New York, Nov. 20, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); IMPORT CONTROLS (66%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (65%); TAX LAW (63%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TOM LANTOS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



77 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT REJECTS APOLOGY TO JAPAN

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
President Bush today rejected any suggestion that the United States owed Japan an apology for dropping atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, saying that the bombings might have saved millions of American lives and that Americans helped rebuild Japan after World War II.
"No apology is required, and it will not be asked of this President, I can guarantee you," Mr. Bush said, adding that he felt strongly about the matter. "War is hell, and it's a terrible thing. But there should be no apology requested. And that, in my view, is rank revisionism." 
 Mr. Bush's remarks, in a taped interview broadcast on the ABC News program "This Week," came six days before he is to attend a ceremony in Hawaii marking the 50th anniversary of Japan's surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, and one month before he begins a wide-ranging tour of Asia that will include a four-day stop in Japan.
The trip to Asia was rescheduled last week. The President postponed the trip on Election Night after some election returns suggested voter resentment over what some Democrats said was Mr. Bush's lack of attention to domestic issues. The White House said at the time that the trip would be rescheduled.
 
Japan Debating Apology
 The Pearl Harbor anniversary has stirred political and emotional passions both here and in Japan, where the parliament has been debating a resolution that would apologize to Japan's former enemies for its role in World War II. Such a move would mark a departure for the Japanese, who have been slow to acknowledge, even in school textbooks and other public documents, that they were the aggressor in the war.
But as Japan has become a world economic power, sentiment among its citizens has grown that the United States also should apologize for the two atomic bombings, on Aug. 6 and 9, 1945. The bombs killed at least 200,000 civilians and left a scar on Japan's national psyche.
After the attack on Pearl Harbor, Mr. Bush became a Navy aviator. His fighter plane was shot down by the Japanese in the South Pacific in 1943 and after hours in the water he was rescued by an American submarine.
In the ABC interview, which was taped earlier but broadcast today, Mr. Bush said he no longer felt a "personal sense" of anger toward the Japanese for their role in World War II. He said he believed that the Japanese had also put aside many of their animosities over the war, partly because "what we have done with Japan, helping restore that country, is appreciated by Japan."
"And so I don't think there's anybody looking for apologies one way or another," he said. "What we're saying is, 'Hey, let's forget that, let's go forward now together.' And if you see some ugliness in our country about the Japanese, I'll be out front saying, 'Hey, knock that off.' "
But by his language, which included graphic descriptions of horrors he witnessed in the war, the President made it apparent that he believed that the atomic bombings were a justifiable response to Japan's conduct in the war and, he said, an important means by which Japan's surrender was hastened.
Asked directly whether Japan should get an apology for the bombings, Mr. Bush responded quickly, "Not from this President.
"I was fighting over there," he added. "I had my orders to go back there when the war ended, and American lives were saved" by the bombings.
"Now, do we mourn the loss of innocent civilians? Yes. Can I empathize with a family whose child was victimized by these attacks? Absolutely. But I can also empathize with my roommate's mother, my roommate having been killed in action. I think out of our squadron, I don't know whether it was 6 of our 15 were killed."
In saying that the bombings saved American lives by hastening the war's end, Mr. Bush adhered to what has long been the unofficial explanation of American officials for the world's only use of atomic weapons in wartime.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 1991, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about President Bush's rejection of any suggestion that the United States owed Japan an apology for the dropping of atomic bombs in World War II misstated the type of plane he was flying when he was shot down in the South Pacific in 1943. A Navy aviator during the war, Mr. Bush was piloting a torpedo bomber, not a fighter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush said no apology was required for the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan. He was returning to the White House yesterday from Camp David, Md. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: CHUGOKU, JAPAN (88%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (70%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (88%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45); ATOMIC WEAPONS WORLD WAR II (92%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TEXTBOOKS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



78 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Slow Death On Campus

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Nov. 30

 BODY:
Should the University of Bridgeport soon end the long fall from its heyday in 1970 by closing its half-empty campus and going out of business, it would leave two legacies to the world of higher education.
Its increasingly painful struggle to stay alive during the last two decades will have shown, first of all, how very hard it is to kill an American university. Yet it will also have demonstrated just how to do that, step by step. 
 Death, if it comes, will have been helped along by the shrinking pool of college-age students and the financial pressures of the recession that challenge all colleges and universities. But its root cause will be a poisonous conflict between the administration and the faculty over academic ambition: what the university should be, and whom it should serve.
That conflict, which erupted in a faculty strike in 1990, scared away students and created a large group of professors who, locked out of their jobs, hoped for the university's death. It also set trustees on a desperate search for financial salvation that led this fall to the doorway of the Unification Church, further damaging the private university's wounded reputation.
 
Demography Changed
 "Bridgeport is suffering for the situation in its city and the state and in the region all compounded," said Stephen J. Trachtenberg, president of the University of Hartford from 1977 to 1988 who now heads George Washington University in Washington. "Demography changed on them. The economy went south. And then they fell to fighting among themselves rather than dealing with the enemy that they shared."
Many administrators at other colleges and universities, watching uneasily as Bridgeport, almost out of cash, lops off departments and colleges, take its crisis as a warning of what can happen when financial pressures divide a university.
In Connecticut, those pressures have recently caused Yale to cut some sports and close its main dining hall, Wesleyan to stop admitting students without regard to financial need, Post College to affiliate with a Japanese university and Hartford College for Women to merge with the University of Hartford.
At Columbia University in New York City, in a dispute echoing a major point of conflict at far less prestigious Bridgeport, 26 departmental chairmen threatened this week to quit if the College of Arts and Sciences, the center of undergraduate education, takes the brunt of cutbacks threatened by a projected deficit.
"Bridgeport is a sufficiently plausible scenario, it is not so sui generis that it can't happen again," said Sheldon Steinbach, general counsel of the American Council on Education in Washington, which lobbies for the nation's colleges and universities.
For many years, the University of Bridgeport was a success story. Founded as a junior college in 1927, incorporated as a university in 1947, it grew rapidly in the 1960's as members of the baby-boom generation went to college in unprecedented numbers.
Construction was constant on its 86-acre campus, across a city park from Long Island Sound. Departments and colleges were added and expanded; as late as 1977, the university acquired a law school.
But despite the university's growth, its status was insecure. As early as the late 1960's when enrollment peaked at 9,100, there was talk that it would someday be taken over by the state. As construction continued in the 70's, trustees accepted demographic projections that showed enrollment inevitably shrinking.
 
The Critical 1970's
 Bridgeport took few steps in the critical years of the early 1970's to focus its identity. Instead, the most significant development was the formation of a faculty union, a chapter of the American Association of University Professors, in 1974.
The union was born out of longstanding frustration with administrators and newly found pride in the university, say professors who remain loyal to it now that it has been broken and driven off campus.
Pay raises and promotions had been handled arbitrarily for years. Some professors tolerated these practices because they saw Bridgeport as a stop along the way to careers at major research universities. Then the academic job market dried up.
"A lot of us found that we were going to stay here," Ms. Reinhart said, "so then we had a real reason to get this place regulated." As a new president, Leland Miles, took office in 1974, the administration and faculty were forming conflicting visions of the university.
Dr. Miles moved to strengthen business and engineering programs, the main interest of many trustees. The demand for liberal arts studies was falling, he said, and the humanities "should enter into a service relationship with technology."
But liberal arts professors saw the arts and sciences as the foundation of any serious academic enterprise. Every move toward the professions, they said, undermined the university's real strength.
 
Long Strike in 1978
 In 1978, after a long strike, the union had won a new contract under which tenured professors could be laid off, but only if administrators declared a financial emergency or reduced or eliminated a department or college.
"They always refer to '78 as the year the administration lost control of the school," said Gordon Haas, a striking English professor.
But other forces were in motion. Tuition was raised to make up for a shrinking enrollment, making Bridgeport less competitive with its main rival for local students, the University of Connecticut, a state school.
The city was in decline, the campus neighborhood was growing threatening, and dormitories turned shabby as maintenance was postponed. The university began losing a major source of revenue, well-off students from Long Island and New Jersey whose parents could pay tuition, which is slightly less than Ivy League schools. Tuition, room and board is currently $18,000.
When Dr. Miles retired in 1987, the new president, Janet Greenwood, was greeted by a one-day faculty strike over salaries. After learning of a $2.7 million budget deficit, she ordered a financial review and in 1988 presented the results to the university.
 
$12.7 Million in Loans
 In 1989 Dr. Greenwood arranged $12.7 million in loans from a group of Connecticut banks to cover the university's accumulated deficit. She had asked for $16 million.
In March 1990 the administration declared a financial emergency and a plan to lay off 50 professors. As negotiations began on a new contract, the administration told the union it had to save $3 million in faculty salaries. It proposed a 30 percent pay cut.
The administration also wanted back all of the authority it held before the union's formation in 1974, including the right to lay off tenured professors with 30 days' notice.
The union saw the proposals as an attack on academic freedom and an effort to break the union at any cost. That September, 120 of the union's 170 members struck, as did dining hall and maintenance workers.
A few weeks later, the university began hiring permanent replacements. The union was in shock. Within a few weeks, enough strikers returned and enrollment had dropped so much that the university needed to hire only 40 outside instructors. Student support was lost once instructors were holding class. The academic year was under way.
A year later, 64 professors and 4 librarians remain on strike. Enrollment has fallen to 3,850 students. Only 1,200 are full-time, and 93 percent of freshmen receive Federal financial aid.
This week the university won permission to cash $1.3 million in restricted scholarship funds to meet its payroll the next two weeks, leaving $700,000 in its endowment.
 
Eliminating Degrees
 This week the university announced it would eliminate degrees in 30 undergraduate and graduate subjects, including all liberal arts offerings, after spring semester. As many as 300 students will have to transfer from what is becoming, almost by default, a business and engineering institute.
Many professors and students are angry at the strikers for carrying on a campaign against the university, and at the administration for its flailing efforts to retrieve the situation.
The strikers say the university, with unqualified instructors in its classrooms, is a charade of higher education. Their goal is to shut it down for good, in the hope -- however vain -- that the state will step in and resurrect it with a new board.
What has been lost is a vision of what the university should be. The trustees have considered everything from closing down, to moving out of Bridgeport, to mergers, to bankruptcy.
Asked if the trustees have a clear idea of the university the hoped to sustain, the board's chairman, Colin Gunn, said this week: "You want an honest answer? No. We're too busy trying to save it."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 1991, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Monday about Bridgeport University misstated the admissions policy of another Connecticut university. Wesleyan, in Middletown, continues to admit students without regard to financial need.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST: Students Go Public" shows the percentage change in total enrollment of selected colleges and universities in Connecticut, compared with 1981 levels. (Source: Connecticut Department of Higher Education) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF BRIDGEPORT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HIGHER EDUCATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF BRIDGEPORT AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HIGHER EDUCATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); LAWYERS (50%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1991



79 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 76 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
U.S. Bonds Top List

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The investment return on United States Treasury bonds outpaced that of other governments' debt securities in November, posting a return of 1.09 percent, J. P. Morgan's Government Bond Index Monitor said yesterday. The study said bonds rallied on anticipation of a further easing in interest rates. Australian bonds turned in the second-highest return last month, 0.91 percent, while bonds of Canada and Germany both registered returns of 0.85 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (65%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN CANADA (58%); J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (65%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



80 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
$700 Million in Debentures Set Today by Fannie Mae

 BODY:
The Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, said yesterday that it planned to offer $700 million of seven-year debentures today priced at 99.90625 to yield 7.067 percent with a 7.05 percent coupon rate.
Proceeds will be used to redeem $550 million of series 1991 debentures carrying 11.75 percent interest and due Dec. 10. 
 At the same time, the Government-sponsored mortgage association said it planned to broaden the market for another type of its securities -- those backed by mortgages -- by adding coupon offerings in quarter-percentage-point increments.
"Mortgage securities typically are issued only in one-half percent increments," the association said, adding that those issued with an additional increment of one-quarter percentage point on coupons have generally not received the full value of that increment because of a lack of liquidity.
Debbie L. Cohen, vice president for mortgage-backed securities capital markets at Fannie Mae, said, "It will benefit lenders by allowing them to receive full value of the securities."
She said that the first such issue was a Remic, or real estate mortgage investment conduit, backed in part by $167 million of 8.75 percent Fannie Mae mortgage-backed securities. These 8.75 percent securities are based on a portfolio of 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loans bearing interest ranging from 9 percent to 10.65 percent, mostly coming from the Source One Mortgage Services Corporation, Farmington Hills, Mich., formerly the Fireman's Fund Mortgage Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); SOURCE ONE MORTGAGE SERVICES CORP (66%); FIREMAN'S FUND INSURANCE CO (54%); FIREMAN'S FUND RISK MANAGEMENT SERVICES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BONDS (91%); REAL ESTATE MORTGAGE CONDUITS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



81 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: New Measure For Economy

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
The Government this week will no longer emphasize figures for the gross national product, favoring instead numbers on gross domestic product.
What's the difference? 
 The gross national product measures all the goods and services produced by workers and capital supplied by United States residents or corporations, regardless of location. The gross domestic product measures all the goods and services produced by workers and capital in the United States.
Profits that a United States company receives from its overseas operations are included in the G.N.P. while profits foreign-owned businesses made in the United States are excluded.
The profits on the overseas operations of United States companies are excluded from the G.D.P. while the earnings of foreign companies in the United States are included.
Private economists support the change, saying it will make America's most important economic yardstick compatible with how most other countries measure their own economies.
"No one measure is perfect," said Michael Evans, head of a Washington forecasting firm. "but a far better measure of how the U.S. economy is doing is what is produced inside our borders rather than what is produced all around the world."
The Commerce Department will still publish the G.N.P. figure, but the first look at G.N.P. will come a month after the comparable G.D.P. report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (92%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



82 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Is Mostly Lower; Gold Up Abroad, Off in U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended mostly lower yesterday against key foreign currencies, weakened at first by anxiety over an early drop in United States stock prices and later from pessimism over the American economic outlook.
Gold prices fell domestically after rising overseas. At the Republic National Bank of New York, gold was quoted at $366.05 an ounce as of 4 P.M., down $1.45 from Friday's level. At the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery fell 90 cents an ounce, to $367. 
 Foreign exchange traders said the dollar declined early in the day on news of a big drop in the Tokyo stock market. Traders reasoned that the Tokyo decline would spill over into the United States market, weakening the value of American stocks and lessening foreign appetite for dollar-denominated investments.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped initially but rebounded to a 40.70-point gain. The stock market turnaround helped the dollar recover somewhat, but it still finished mostly lower.
"The Dow average dropped so early that people just started selling the dollar in case," said David Ogg, the foreign exchange manager at the New York branch of Credit Suisse, a Switzerland-based investment banking company.
Charles Cossentino, an assistant vice president at the New York office of Germany's Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank, said the foreign exchange market's initial fixation on United States stock-price movements stemmed largely from the dearth of other economic news.
In addition, traders said the dollar's value was undermined slightly by a report from the National Association of Purchasing Management showing a stagnant United States manufacturing economy in November.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.09 yen to close at 129.98 yen. Later in London the dollar fetched 129.75 yen. By the time trading concluded in New York the dollar fetched 130.15 yen, higher than its 129.93 closing on Friday.
The dollar fetched 1.6100 German marks in European trading, down from 1.6275. In New York the dollar fetched 1.6150 marks, a bit higher than its close in Europe but still down from the 1.6243 level in New York late on Friday.
The British pound rose to $1.7760 in London, from $1.7655 late Friday. In New York, the pound fetched $1.7725, up from $1.7670 late on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (90%); GERMANY (86%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (90%); GERMANY (86%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



83 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: A Deep Split In Attitudes Is Developing

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Despite increasing disagreements between Japan and the United States, most people in the two countries say relations between them are friendly, and that their alliance is dependable, according to a poll by The New York Times, CBS News and the Tokyo Broadcasting System.
But the opinion poll also shows a deep cleavage between fundamental attitudes of the two countries, with Americans pessimistic about competing with Japan, and Japanese seeing America as a nation that is declining as a world power and blaming Japan for its own economic problems. 
 The results appear to reflect the economic distress in the United States and the growing economic power of Japan. Both factors appear to be exerting a powerful and perhaps emotional effect on people's outlooks, which may well translate into greater resentments in the future, and perhaps affect the 1992 Presidential campaign.
The findings are drawn from a random sample of 1,106 Americans surveyed by telephone Nov. 18 to 22, and 1,446 Japanese surveyed in person Nov. 7 to 13. The American survey was conducted throughout the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii. The Japanese survey was conducted throughout Japan. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points.
Some of the most striking results had to do with a tough Japanese approach toward the United States, with 63 percent agreeing that the United States is in decline as a world power, compared with 44 percent of Americans who expressed this view in a Times/ CBS News Poll taken in October.
A majority of both Americans (52 percent) and Japanese (53 percent) agree that Japan will be the No. 1 economic power in the next century. Only 3 in 10 in each country say the United States will be No. 1.
When this question was last asked in both countries in June 1990, the Japanese were more divided, with 42 percent saying the United States would be the top economic power and 39 percent selecting their own country.
The poll showed that all the recent disputes between the countries over trade and economic issues and the gulf war had not affected basic Japanese and American views on the sound and friendly basis of their relations.
For example, 80 percent of the Americans described relations between the countries as friendly, and only 15 percent said they were unfriendly, virtually unchanged from figures recorded in June 1990. Japanese views also remained about the same, with 60 percent saying relations are friendly and 39 percent saying they are unfriendly.
An almost identical majority in both countries (58 percent in the United States and 57 percent in Japan) said they could depend on the other country as a future ally.
In terms of personal attitudes, 77 percent of Americans said they personally had friendly feelings toward Japan and only 17 percent unfriendly. Among Japanese, 65 percent reported friendly feelings toward the United States and 33 percent unfriendly feelings. These were also comparable to the 1990 results.
But questions about attitudes about each other elicited more negative feelings. Many Japanese (70 percent) said they felt that Americans "look down" on them, while only 43 percent of the American respondents said they felt the Japanese looked down on them.
On another emotional issue, United States economic problems, a majority in both countries agreed with the statement that "the increase in Japanese investment in the United States poses a threat to American economic independence." Among Japanese, 76 percent said "the United States is blaming Japan for its own economic problems" compared with 47 percent of Americans.
Much publicity has swirled in recent years about Japanese economic activity in the United States, but the poll showed that Japanese had concerns similar to or even greater than those of Americans.
Most Japanese (52 percent) agreed with Americans (62 percent) who said Japanese investment in the United States jeopardized American economic independence.
And a plurality of Japanese (38 percent) agreed with a plurality of Americans (43 percent) that "the future generation of Americans will be worse off."
Perhaps most striking were disagreements about the war in the Persian Gulf and about issues of war and peace, reflecting the continuing strength of Japanese pacifism and adherence to a constitution that bans the use or threat of force.
The findings echoed the criticisms leveled against Japan when it delayed its response to the war and then declined to send personnel to the Persian Gulf even though it eventually contributed $13 billion in financial aid. Although 61 percent of the Japanese said their country's response was appropriate, 65 percent of Americans said Japan should have done more.
More generally, the results reflected Japanese uneasiness about the use of force at the same time that the United States sees itself as a military guardian of the world, which could have wide ramifications with the ending of the cold war.
Japanese were nearly equally divided over the United States sending troops to fight in the gulf, with 50 percent in support and 47 percent disapproving. Among Americans, support for sending the troops was much higher, with 74 percent in favor and 22 disapproving.
But when asked whether the United States has a responsibility to take military action in trouble spots if asked by its allies, 52 percent of Japanese said no, compared with 63 percent of Americans who said yes.
In addition, 72 percent of Americans said it was appropriate to use force, including military force, to maintain international justice and order, while almost the same proportion (70 percent) of Japanese said it was not appropriate.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The New York Times/CBS News/Tokyo Broadcasting System Poll: How Americans and Japanese View Each Other"

 	 	 	Friendship and Respect	U.S.	Japan	 	 	 	In the next few years, do you think overall	 	 	relations between the United States and	 	 	Japan will:	 	 	 	 	 	 Get better 	29% 	10%	 Get worse 	19% 	22%	 Stay about the same 	48% 	67%	 	 	 	Are your feelings toward (Japan/the United	 	 	States) generally:	 	 	 	 	 	 Friendly 	77% 	65%	 Unfriendly 	17% 	33%	 	 	 	Do you think most Japanese:	 	 	 	 	 	 Respect Americans 	41% 	60%	 Look down on Americans 	43% 	28%	 	 	 	Do you think most Americans:	 	 	 	 	 	 Respect Japanese 	43% 	21%	 Look down on the Japanese 	43% 	70%	 	 	 	Economic Future	 	 	 	 	 	In the next century, which country will be	 	 	the No. 1 economic power in the world?	 	 	 	 	 	 United States 	30% 	29%	 Japan	52% 	53%	 	 	 	Which comes closer to your opinion:	 	 	 	 	 	 Japanese companies are competing	 	 	 unfairly with American companies 	32%	21%	 	 	 	or	 	 	 	 	 	 The United States is blaming Japan	 	 	 for its own economic problems 	47% 	76%	 	 	 	Military Future	 	 	 	 	 	Some people say the United States is in	 	 	decline as a world power. Do you:	 	 	 	 	 	 Strongly agree 	18%* 	10%	 Agree somewhat 	26% 	53%	 Disagree somewhat 	27% 	30%	 Strongly disagree 	23% 	4%	 	 	 	Which comes closer to your opinion	 	 	 	 	 	 It is appropriate to use force	 	 	 including military force to maintain	 	 	international justice and order 	72% 	26%	 	 	 	or	 	 	 	 	 	 It is not appropriate to use force	 	 	 including military force to even maintain	 	 	international justice and order 	20% 	70%		 	 	
 
Based on nationwide telephone interviews with 1,106 adults in the United States conducted Nov. 18-22 and on personal interviews in Japan with 1,446 adults conducted Nov. 7-13
 
How the Two Polls Were Conducted
The New York Times/CBS News/Tokyo Broadcasting System Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Nov. 18 to 22 with 1,106 adults throughout the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, and on in-person interviews conducted Nov. 7 to 13 with 1,446 adults throughout Japan.
In the United States the sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to insure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted telephone numbers. Within each household one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the poll. The results have been weighted to take account of household size and the number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education.
In Japan, the survey was conducted by the Nihon Research Center under the supervision of the Tokyo Broadcasting System. Interviews were conducted throughout the country to yield a statistically representative sample. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points from what would have been obtained from all adults. In addition, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of opinion may introduce other sources of error.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9401 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO BROADCASTING SYSTEM TOKYO BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO BROADCASTING SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); INTERVIEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATISTICS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); DESERT STORM (62%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



84 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
A College's Intense Push To Find Jobs

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
CAMPUS recruiting is down at many colleges, and the job outlook for seniors next spring is not very good, says Vicki Lynn, director of the career development center at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y. Still, she said Rensselaer's graduates, most of them engineers and scientists, were faring better than those of other colleges.
"We have seen the number of companies sending corporate recruiters decline in recent years," she said last week. She forecast that recruiting this school year would be down by about 10 percent from last year's level. 
 Recruiting activity was plentiful last year, she said, but even so, 37 percent of the 435 companies that came to campus did not make a job offer.
The situation is a sharp contrast to the mid-1980's when most students had job offers well before graduation.
In those years before the recession, some unlikely employers -- like Wall Street investment firms and major accounting firms -- hired engineers, either to turn them into stock market analysts or to work on computer systems. Such job openings have dwindled now as these firms cut back because of hard times.
Mrs. Lynn decided something had to be done this year to help graduates find work, and she came up with the idea of a "jobathon." It resembles the fund-raising telethons in which students spend several evenings telephoning parents and alumni to raise money for their colleges.
Rensselaer's jobathon, scheduled for Jan. 19 to 21, will have a different focus -- jobs, not money. Twenty-six students have agreed to telephone alumni from 6 P.M. to 9 P.M. and ask them about job openings in their companies, most of them small to mid-sized enterprises. The students will urge the alumni to have their companies interview Rensselaer students or at least send in job notices for posting on campus.
She said she thought this was the first such effort by any college in the country. It resembles a procedure followed by the Forty Plus clubs organized for people over age 40 who have lost their jobs. The club members telephone companies to ask about job openings not just for themselves but for all the club's members.
Mrs. Lynn said the students conducting the jobathon at Rensselaer would be given a script, and would fill out a response form for each call.
She said the students would also inquire about summer jobs or co-op positions, which are jobs that permit a student to work and attend classes.
"We are not approaching companies that regularly recruit and hire our students, like General Electric and International Business Machines," she explained. "We're looking at corporations that don't have much of a relationship with R.P.I."
The College Placement Council of Bethlehem, Pa., recently reported that "employers are exhibiting cautious optimism in their 1991-1992 hiring plans." It said that 61 percent of the 342 employers surveyed indicated that they planned to hire more graduates, on average about 8.5 percent more, than in 1990-91.
Mrs. Lynn said she had serious doubts that the situation would improve so much, even though she is optimistic that her jobathon will help increase the percentage of hiring from Rensselaer.
"We will tackle about 750 companies," she said. "and if we get a 10 percent response in some way, I will consider that a success -- and I think we will equal that."
This year's promising fields for engineering jobs, she said, include environmental and chemical engineering, technical writing and management systems engineering.
Students participating in the jobathon include some with interesting affiliations. Anne Williams, a biology major from Delta Junction, Alaska, runs Bagels on the Run, which delivers on campus. Reginaldo Montague, from Brooklyn, a chemical engineering major, is vice president of the campus Society of Black Engineers. Mary Robbins, a management major from Victoria, Ill., heads Winning Attitudes, an organization that campaigns among schoolchildren against drunken driving.
Mrs. Lynn does not worry about other colleges copying her jobathon. "That would be fine." she said. "We have to reverse this trend and help seniors now."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (55%); IBM (NYSE) (55%); IBM (LSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR EMPLOYMENT (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



85 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: World Bank to Let Salomon Handle Its Business Again

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
In one of the firm's first signs of recovery from the Treasuries market scandal, Salomon Brothers Inc. has won back the business of the World Bank after three months of suspension, the firm announced yesterday.
The World Bank was one of the first and most prestigious clients to suspend its dealing with Salomon after the bond trading house disclosed in August that it had submitted a number of illegal bids in Treasury market auctions. The loss of business with the World Bank, whose global bond issues Salomon helped manage for the last several years, was the most stinging client rebuke Salomon suffered. 
 The decision by the World Bank to resume its business dealings comes as a vote of confidence in the sweeping changes made under Warren E. Buffett, the firm's interim chairman. Since taking the post from John H. Gutfreund in August, Mr. Buffett has overseen the establishment of comprehensive rules governing trading, the cutbacks of bonuses and the installation of a new management team led by Deryck Maughan, chief operating officer.
The World Bank's decision was widely seen on Wall Street as an indication that the bank believed Salomon would continue as a primary dealer, a status that allows the firm to deal directly with the Federal Reserve. Salomon's continued status as a primary dealer has been under review by the Government since the scandal began to unfold.
A spokesman for Salomon declined to provide details beyond the firm's one-sentence announcement of the re-established ties. Peter Riddleberger, a spokesman for the World Bank, said of the Salomon statement, "We have no comment, but we are not denying it."
The move by the World Bank, which is the largest borrower of dollars outside of the United States Government, could help Salomon as it tries to recapture business from other large clients. Indeed, some clients who suspended their business with Salomon were also said yesterday to be continuing examinations of their decisions and would soon discuss whether to revise them.
DeWitt Bowman, chief investment officer of the California Public Employee Retirement System, said the giant pension fund was continuing its review of its decision to suspend all trading of Government securities with Salomon. "We have not yet made a decision to rescind that action, but I suspect that we may shortly," he said.
The staff of the California pension fund will likely finish its review before its next board meeting, scheduled for Dec. 18, and make its recommendation then, Mr. Bowman said.
The decisions by clients to suspend their business with Salomon has hurt the firm's prestige as well as costing it business. Because of its suspension, Salomon was barred from a global bond offering by the World Bank and received none of the international lending institution's huge fixed-income business.
The decision by the World Bank to return to doing business with the firm came after months of indecision. When it first suspended business with Salomon, the World Bank said the punishment would last until the end of September, when it would be reviewed.
When a final decision was expected, however, the World Bank announced that it was continuing its suspension indefinitely, leaving another cloud hanging over the troubled firm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); SALOMON BROTHERS INC SALOMON BROTHERS INC (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); SALOMON BROTHERS INC INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); FOREIGN LENDING (68%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (61%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (61%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT WARREN BUFFETT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



86 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Construction Spending Up 1% in October

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Construction spending, helped by government outlays, rose 1 percent in October, the Government said today. It was the fourth consecutive monthly gain, the longest stretch of increases in five years.
The Commerce Department said residential, nonresidential and government spending totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $411.5 billion, from $407.5 billion in September. 
 The four-month stretch of increases was the longest since spending rose for five months from December 1986 through April 1987.
The revised 1.3 percent advance in September was even larger than the 1.1 percent gain first reported.
 
One Measurement Is Down
 Still, the value of construction put in place in October was 5.3 percent below that of the same month in 1990.
Despite budgetary restraints, government spending jumped 3.8 percent after rising 1.1 percent in September.
"We're seeing state and local governments hesitate to cut back on capital spending plans," said David Berson, an economist with the Federal National Mortgage Association. "They have been more prone to cut salaries and personnel."
Mr. Berson said government spending should get additional stimulus from the $151 billion in transportation spending approved by Congress last week. President Bush said today that he would sign the legislation next week.
Residential spending slowed to a gain of eight-tenths of 1 percent in October from a 2.5 percent jump a month earlier. Mr. Berson said this category would continue to rise at a modest pace.
Spending for single-family housing rose 1.6 percent, after a 2.9 percent gain in September. But apartment outlays fell 4.1 percent, after soaring 7.4 percent in the preceding month.
While housing should continue to move up, there will be no sharp increase in nonresidential spending, Mr. Berson said. Nonresidential spending fell 2.3 percent in October, continuing a six-month slide that included a loss of two-tenths of 1 percent in September.
"Nonresidential building will remain fairly weak because of the glut of office buildings," Mr. Berson said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending" shows total construction spending in billions of dollars from May, '90- Oct., '91. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (92%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (79%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); APPROVALS (66%); OFFICE PROPERTY (61%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



87 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
The Good News That Fails to Cure

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
ALMOST every day brings another gloomy statistic about the economy. The flow of data, however, also includes a number of good news items; in fact, a relatively long list for an economy popularly characterized as dead in the water. But is there enough good news to generate a recovery? Increasingly the answer among economists, in Congress and even at the White House is veering from "yes" to "no."
The problem is that among the eight or so good news entries, only two qualify as engines of economic growth potentially powerful enough to lift the economy from its stagnation. One is home construction, which has risen but not nearly enough to bring the huge construction industry to life. The other is falling interest rates, which should be low enough to lure people into buying on credit. Somehow, the shopping splurges are not happening. 
 The resulting inertia prompts Robert Hall, a Stanford University economist, to declare, "The best news of all is that this stagnant economy is not contracting; it is at least not moving downward."
Like many other economists, Mr. Hall is losing confidence that the current recession, the ninth since World War II, will behave like the others and give way to recovery in some standard fashion. That concern is prodding Congress into a debate over various tax cuts that might, in effect, induce a recovery by funneling money to consumers and to companies. Even the White House, which officially sees an unaided recovery by spring, is showing signs of losing faith in this hands-off approach.
Reflecting the doubts, Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, invited eight economists to a rare White House meeting with President Bush 10 days ago. While the President took notes, the economists told him that low interest rates might not be enough to generate a recovery -- even if the Federal Reserve lowers rates more than it already has.
"No one assured the President that the Federal Reserve alone could guarantee him a boom," said David Hale, chief economist at Kemper Financial Services, who was at the meeting. But when the assembled economists came to consider what steps Mr. Bush should take, there was disagreement.
Neither the Bush Administration nor the group of conservative economists with whom he met has much faith in fiscal stimulus; that is, tax cuts or tax credits or public works spending to increase economic activity. Such measures would raise the deficit, temporarily at least, and also undo the agreement negotiated last year to eliminate the deficit. "There is not enough scope to cut taxes or spend enough to get the economy going," said Mr. Hall, who was at the meeting.
The fallback position is faith in the restorative powers of the various items on the good news list, all of them measuring progress since last spring, 10 months after the recession's start. Aside from the rise in home construction and home sales, more people are refinancing mortgages at lower interest rates, which lowers installment payments and thus frees cash for other uses. Exports are strong, and manufacturing output has risen. Business spending on new equipment is also up slightly. Inflation is low. Profit margins are a bit higher as companies cut costs, partly through layoffs and lower materials prices. And many companies and individuals have reduced their debts.
"If you look back to early spring, you can see the recovery, but if you look back to the summer of 1990, when the recession started, you can't," said Geoffrey Moore, director of Columbia University's Center for Business Cycle Research. Put another way, the gross national product, the total value of the goods and services produced in a given year, shrank by $52 billion between July 1990 and last spring. Since spring the G.N.P. has recovered $24 billion of the lost ground, reaching by October an annual rate of $4.143 trillion, adjusted for inflation. There it has nearly stopped. (A recession officially ends when all of the lost ground is recovered.)
Apart from the recession, Mr. Bush has to consider the economy from a longer perspective, one that started in January 1989, when he took office. The G.N.P., adjusted for inflation, has expanded by only $47 billion since then, a meager 1 percent rise in nearly three years. Perhaps more important, in the 1988 campaign, Mr. Bush spoke of an economy robust enough to create 30 million jobs during eight years of a Bush Presidency, or twice the job growth in President Ronald Reagan's two terms.
So far, the sluggish economy has generated only 1.6 million new jobs since January 1989, and even that small number might be cut to less than one million, if the Labor Department adopts revisions now under consideration. "Bush's timing was bad," Mr. Hale said. "He came to office at the end of a long, excessive business cycle, and his Presidency has become a cleanup job."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (52%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); WORLD WAR II (51%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



88 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Report Warns of Crisis in Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 2

 BODY:
A United Nations commission warned today that the shattered economies of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union could soon reach the breaking point, saying that their economic output had declined to the point that their slide should be called a depression.
The Geneva-based United Nations Economic Commission on Europe said economic output in Eastern Europe would plunge by almost 15 percent this year, which it said would bring the decline in production over three years to almost 25 percent. It said that in the United States Depression, output from 1929 to 1933 fell by 29 percent. 
 As for the Soviet Union, the commission predicted that economic output would fall by almost 15 percent this year. It forecast a drop next year of about 6 percent, but it said that if the republics failed to agree on a viable economic policy, the decline could be much larger.
The commission's report said it was uncertain how much longer Eastern Europeans would peacefully tolerate these huge declines in output as their nations made the harrowing transition from Communism to a market economy.
It seems likely that social unrest will increase in 1992, and that in some countries there will be increasing pressure to dilute or abandon the reform process, the report said.
Nonetheless, the commission added that all the nations undertaking economic transitions were faced with the necessity of persevering with tough measures to reorganize their economies, bring down inflation and reduce their budget deficits.
To help the region's transition to a market economy, the commission urgently called on the West to step up economic aid and do more to open its markets to the former Communist bloc. With 24 nations and 7 international institutions providing aid to the region, it called for stepped-up efforts to draft and carry out a coordinated program.
The transition process is going to be a lengthy one, extending in some cases over several decades, the commission said. "It is therefore going to require a sustained commitment to coordinated action on the part of all governments with an interest in its success," it said.
The commission said that industrial output in eastern Germany would plunge by 50 percent this year. But in one of the report's bright spots, it forecast that eastern Germany's economy would finally rebound next year, predicting growth of 10 percent thanks to the strength of public invesment.
"It is too early to say whether this is the start of a self-sustained recovery in economic activity, but clearly it is a hopeful sign of improvement," the report said.
The report predicted that Hungary's economy would grow by 1 to 2 percent next year, after sliding since 1989. It forecast that Polish output would fall again in 1992, for the fourth year in a row, although it said there were some hopes that an upturn would begin in late 1992.
The commission was of two minds on whether the Soviet republics should have a monetary union. Arguing on behalf of such a union, the report said it would help Western governments conduct business with the republics and would mean closer cooperation among republics -- and thus less of a chance of friction and violence among them.
But, arguing for several currencies, the report said that taxation and spending were already at the republic level and that fiscal discipline could be established only if republic politicians were faced with the consequences of budgetary extravagance.
One problem of a central bank with a single currency, it said, is that officials from the republics might run up huge deficits and demand that the central bank issue money to cover the debt.
The existence of a central bank and a nominally single currency has not prevented inflation from rising to an annual rate of around 360 percent in September, the report said.
Although the commission did not say whether the Soviet Union should remain intact as a single political entity, it said that "coherence in the structure of political authority" was among conditions for continued foreign assistance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; EASTERN EUROPE EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TRENDS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



89 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Knoxville Paper to End Daily Publication

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
The Knoxville (Tenn.) Journal, an evening paper long dominated by its morning rival, The Knoxville News-Sentinel, said yesterday that it would stop publishing as a daily on Dec. 31.
Knoxville will then join a host of other mid-sized cities that have lost their second-ranked newspaper during the newspaper recession. These cities include San Diego, Little Rock, Ark., and Roanoke, Va. 
 Gerald Garcia, the editor and publisher, said in an article in yesterday's issue that there were plans to publish a weekend paper, to be called The Weekend Journal, that would focus on local news, entertainment and University of Tennessee sports.
 
Workers to Be Dismissed
 But Mr. Garcia said that all 69 of the daily's employees would be dismissed and that The Weekend Journal would be published with employees from a sister paper, The Daily Times, in Maryville, Tenn., a about 20 miles from Knoxville. Mr. Garcia, who is also the editor and publisher of The Daily Times, said he did not know if any Journal employees would be hired for the weekend paper.
The Knoxville Journal and The Daily Times are owned by the Persis Corporation, which also owns The Honolulu Advertiser.
The Journal, which was founded in 1838, has a daily circulation of about 40,000, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations. The News-Sentinel, which is owned by the E. W. Scripps Company, has a daily circulation of about 104,000 and Sunday sales of about 175,000.
Neither The Journal nor The Daily Times, with a circulation of about 21,000, publishes a Sunday issue.
For most of the century, The Journal was the voice of East Tennessee's Republican Party. Perhaps The Journal's last grand campaign was a long-running expose in the late 1970's of the banking practices of Jake Butcher, a developer and Democratic gubernatorial candidate who eventually went to jail.
In the mid-1980's, the Gannett Company, The Journal's owner at the time, and Scripps renegotiated a joint operating arrangement in force at the time, under which the papers shared advertising, circulation and printing functions, along with profits.
 
Moves to Mornings
 As a result, The Journal was forced to shift from morning publication to evening. The News-Sentinel, then an afternoon paper, was dominant, but moving to the morning gave The News-Sentinel an added lift and virtually insured that The Journal would eventually fail.
Gannett then sold The Journal to a group of investors that included Howard H. Baker Jr., the powerful Tennessee Republican and former United States Senator. The Baker group, in turn, sold the paper to Persis, which is owned by Thurston Twigg Smith, an entrepreneur based in Honolulu.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (85%); SSP (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (96%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: KNOXVILLE JOURNAL GANNETT CO INC (85%); E W SCRIPPS CO (82%); PERSIS CORP (68%); KNOXVILLE NEWS-SENTINEL CO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (57%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (55%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: KNOXVILLE JOURNAL UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (57%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (55%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TENNESSEE, USA (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (96%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) PUBLISHING (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); GOVERNORS (62%); AUDITS (51%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



90 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Ray of Optimism From Dividends

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
EVEN as pressure grows in Washington to do something to help the economy, the pace of dividend declarations by American companies is starting to improve slightly.
The Standard & Poor's Corporation reported yesterday that 105 companies announced increased dividends in November, slightly more than the 100 companies that made similar declarations in November 1990. It was the second time in three months that the figure showed a year-over-year improvement, but the increases are not nearly enough to prevent 1991 from being the worst year, in that regard, since 1972. 
 The slight improvement in the pace of dividend increases may represent only that in late 1990 a recession was taking hold and there was widespread pessimism brought on by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Those factors persuaded many companies to hold back on dividend increases, making this year's comparisons relatively easy.
While there has been an increase in the number of companies announcing higher dividends, the list of such companies has had a disproportionate representation of small companies. Among the large companies that make up the Standard & Poor's 500 index, the dividend outlook has continued to erode this fall, which has helped to arouse concern over whether the recession really ended last spring, as many economists have assumed.
At the end of 1990, the S.& P. 500 was paying dividends at a rate of $12.25 for the index, meaning that a basket of fractional shares of stocks in the S.& P. 500, bought at the then-current S.& P. index value of 330.33, would have paid dividends of $12.25 in 1991, if none of the companies either raised or lowered their payouts.
That figure has fallen in spurts all year. It seemed to stabilize at about $12.17 in the summer, but this fall dipped to $12.11.
For all of 1990, the S.& P. 500 paid $12.10 in dividends, but the rate of payout was rising for much of the year, leading to the $12.25 figure at the end of the year. The falling rate this year means that the total actually paid will be up only a small amount from last year, perhaps less than 1 percent. By contrast, in the 1974-75 and 1981-82 recessions, the payout on the S.& P. 500 went up more than 2 percent in each year. In 1990, despite the onset of the recession, the figure rose 9.5 percent.
There is considerable optimism among Wall Street analysts that the dividend picture will improve in 1992, although it may be noted that few analysts had expected the drop in the S.& P. 500 payout rate this year.
"We are looking for about a 15 to 20 percent increase in corporate profits next year, so we expect that dividends will start to trend upward," said Joseph Tigue, the managing editor of S.& P.'s Outlook newsletter. "We look for a brighter picture for next year. Of course that is compared to this year, which was a disaster."
Many companies announce their dividend increases in the months around the end of a year, either anticipating or reacting to annual profit figures. Over the last 20 years, November ranked second to February in the number of dividend increases announced.
For the first 11 months of 1991, S.& P. said, 984 companies announced increases in dividends. That is the lowest number for any comparable period in two decades, and in reality presents the weakest dividend picture in nearly 30 years. There were fewer increases in both 1970 and 1971, but that reflected Federal inflation controls, which barred many companies from raising payouts to shareholders. The last time fewer companies raised their payouts in a similar period, absent government restrictions, was in 1962, when 960 increases were announced.
Mr. Tigue noted that one encouraging sign came in the figures on the number of companies resuming dividends after omitting them. In November, five companies did that, up from one in November of last year. For the first 11 months of 1991, the figure is 44, up from 35 in 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (94%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (78%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); DIVIDENDS STOCK INDEXES (93%); DIVIDENDS (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



91 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 40.70 as Late Rally Erases Losses

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
The stock market closed sharply higher yesterday, bouncing back briskly late in the day after a steep decline earlier. The Dow Jones industrial average, which at mid-morning was down nearly 30 points from Friday's close, finished 40.70 higher at 2,935.38.
Various forces converged to drag prices down in the morning: weakness in the Japanese and London markets, a lower-than-expected November index from the nation's purchasing managers that the market took as further evidence of a weak economy, and poor showings by I.B.M. and Digital. 
 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 188.3 million shares, yesterday, up from 76.8 million on Friday, as gainers outpaced losers, 927 to 781.
 
Bush Move a Factor
 Anthony Ludovici, the senior vice president and senior investment analyst at Tucker, Anthony, said the market's comeback was timed to a White House announcement around noon that Predsident Bush would discuss the economy in a speech tomorrow at an American Enterprise Institute conference.
The White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said it would be an important speech on the economy, but did not suggest the President would introduce any new proposals.
Mr. Ludovici said the market had interpreted the news as meaning that the President would be looking at the economy sooner rather than later.
"At the time of the announcement, there was a spread between the futures market and the cash market," he said. "Almost immediately, futures-related program trading kicked in and established the trend for the balance of the day, and reinforcing confidence for the moment."
 
Tangible Evidence Needed
 Edwin Walczak, the first vice president of Vontobel U.S.A., said yesterday's market still "needs tangible evidence that either the economy is doing something good, or that Washington will do something smart."
He added, "And until either happens, I can't see why the market should do terribly well."
Stocks in Tokyo took a beating before the opening in New York, with the Nikkei index losing 695.06 points, or more than 3 percent, to 21,992.29. The Nikkei regained some ground in early trading today, rising 265.82, to 22,258.11, by midday.
The Big Board's composite index rose 2.90 points, to 210.65, while the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 6.18 points, to 381.40.
Trading on the American Stock Exchange was active, as the index closed 1.21 points higher at 371.89.
On the Nasdaq, the composite index rose 7.01 points, to 530.91, as the Russell 2,000, a barometer of small companies, rose 0.28 point, to 176.65.
I.B.M., which is still reeling from its announcement last week of its fourth-quarter charge and additional layoffs, weighed heavy on the Dow in early trading, as the stock touched a nine-year low of 90 5/8, before closing down 1/4, to 92 1/4.
Traders said the stock might have reacted to an announcement planned by McCaw Cellular Communications on the details of a deal with Oracle Systems to create a data broadcasting system, which analysts said could compete with a satellite-data network developed by Motorola and I.B.M.
McCaw's stock rose 1 1/2, to 27 3/4, while Oracle's gained 7/8, to 14 3/8, and Motorola's rose 3/4, to 60 3/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); FUTURES (89%); TRENDS (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MAX MARLIN 'MARLIN' FITZWATER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



92 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: McDonnell and I.R.S. Settle

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
The McDonnell Douglas Corporation said yesterday that it had put another of its financial problems behind it by settling a tax dispute with the Internal Revenue Service.
McDonnell Douglas said it had already paid the Government the additional $150 million called for in the settlement. Because the company had set up financial reserves in excess of that amount to cover any settlement, McDonnell Douglas executives said they expected to record a one-time gain to earnings of about $50 million in the fourth quarter. 
 As part of the settlement, the I.R.S. returned to McDonnell Douglas the stock of the McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Company, a wholly owned subsidiary that the Government had held title to pending a resolution.
The agreement comes as McDonnell Douglas, the nation's largest military contractor and its second-largest maker of commercial jetliners, is rebounding from a financial crisis that early this year threatened the company's viability. McDonnell Douglas, which is based in St. Louis, has restored its commercial aircraft business to profitability and substantially reduced its debt.
The company remains intent on cost-cutting, however, and yesterday said it expected to cut between 1,800 and 3,800 jobs out of a work force of 41,000 at its Douglas Aircraft subsidiary in the next 18 months.
A spokesman said the cuts would come from a combination of layoffs and attrition, and would affect both the commercial aircraft production lines and Douglas's one big military program, the C-17 transport plane. Most of the job cuts are expected to come from Douglas's main plant in Long Beach, Calif. The company previously warned that declining orders for jetliners would lead to further layoffs.
McDonnell Douglas share price closed yesterday at $69.875, unchanged, on the Big Board.
The settlement ends a dispute over the company's taxes from 1977 to 1985. The dispute centered on the timing of the completion of the company's Government contracts, an issue that has led to similar tax problems for other aerospace companies.
McDonnell Douglas said it still must pay the Government more than $500 million in deferred taxes and interest by the end of 1994 to cover the years 1986 through 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MD (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (88%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (96%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP MCDONNELL DOUGLAS HELICOPTER CO (85%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); LABOR FORCE (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



93 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Purchasers Index Fell Last Month

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The nation's manufacturing economy, hurt by lower production and new orders, grew far more slowly in November than October, according to a monthly survey of the nation's purchasing managers. Economists saw the figures as an indication that the overall economy was recovering more slowly than they had expected.
The National Association of Purchasing Management said yesterday that its monthly index fell to 50.1 percent in November from 53.3 percent in October. The November reading was lower than many economists had predicted. 
 A reading below 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is declining; a reading above 50 percent indicates an expansion.
In the stock market, the report helped depress stocks initially, but the market bounced back, with the Dow Jones industrial average soaring nearly 70 points from the day's low to close at 2,935.38, up 40.70. [Page D8.]
 
'Virtually Stopped Growth'
 "The economic recovery grew perceptively weaker in November," said Robert J. Bretz, chairman of the association's survey committee and director of corporate purchasing at Pitney Bowes Inc. "Although the overall economy continued with unpretentious growth, the manufacturing sector of the economy virtually stopped growing."
Mr. Bretz added that the decline "suggests continued anemic economic overall growth for the immediate future." He also said the association's index -- which has averaged 47.3 percent for the year's first 11 months -- translates into real economic growth of about 1.1 percent for all of the economy so far this year.
The November index was the lowest reading since May, when it was 45.4 percent. The index had risen in the succeeding four months, causing economists to conclude that the manufacturing economy was expanding.
The purchasing managers' report is considered an important economic indicator because it is based on a survey of managers working in a wide range of industrial companies. Also, it is the first important indicator each month of how the economy has performed in the previous month. The survey is compiled from interviews with purchasing managers at more than 300 industrial companies across the country.
"The data indicate that the pace of economic activity has slowed sub-
stantially in the last few months," said Andrew Brimmer, a former governor of the Federal Reserve and president of Brimmer & Associates, an economic consulting firm in Washington. "It seems that we are on the edge of a declining economy, although the economy is still growing, but barely."
As for the future, Mr. Brimmer said "I see nothing to indicate that the pace of economic activity will pick up any time soon."
The pace of new orders slowed sharply in November, with the new-order index falling to 53.4 percent, from 58.9 percent in October. The new-order figures are considered a signal of the level of production in the coming months. The new-order index had been as high as 63 percent toward the end of the summer, but has fallen each month since.
Production, too, slowed significantly in November, with the production index dropping to 53.7 percent,from 60.3 percent in October. The reading was the lowest since May, when the index stood at 48.8 percent. The association said production would probably fall in the coming months as a result of a decline in the index of new orders.
 
Price Index Declines
 The association's price index fell slightly in November, to 51.4 percent, from 52.6 percent in October. Several items were reported by association members to have fallen in price, including aluminum, steel scrap, sulfur and nickel. Some of those surveyed attributed the decline in the price index to the rescinding of price increases that had been announced recently.
Employment declined in November, with the employment index dropping to 44.4 percent, from 45.1 percent in October. Economists said the drop in employment was largely the result of layoffs in the manufacturing sector that resulted from the lower production levels.
Imports declined in November, in keeping with their general trend for the last 18 months. The association's index of imports fell to 45 percent, from 47.5 percent in October. The figure was the lowest reading since January.
Orders for export slipped slightly, to 55 percent in November, from 55.5 percent in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT PITNEY BOWES INC (69%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); GOVERNORS (60%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P ANDREW FELTON BRIMMER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



94 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2415 words

HEADLINE: Japan and U.S. Struggle With Resentment

SERIES: Fifty Years Later -- First of three articles: An Edgy Alliance

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Japan and the United States are struggling to prevent their successful alliance from being engulfed by a rising tide of frustrations, resentments and recriminations.
Solid majorities of both countries say they feel that relations between them are friendly and that the alliance between Japan and the United States is dependable, according to an opinion survey in late November by The New York Times, CBS News and the Tokyo Broadcasting System. 
 But reflecting the strains in their official relations, the poll shows that Americans voice a deeply pessimistic view about competing with Japan and that the Japanese increasingly see Americans as living in a nation in decline and inclined to blame Japan for its own economic problems. [Page A16.]
The war in the Persian Gulf and the collapse of Communism are forcing Tokyo and Washington to redefine their relationship -- especially the tradition of Washington providing security and foreign policy guidelines while Japan tended to business.
It has proved difficult to rally the Japanese and Americans to new kinds of cooperation -- to defend democracy, combat poverty, help the environment and other activities consistent with President Bush's new world order -- particularly because of emotions unleashed by the gulf war.
"The gulf war was a trigger to submerged feelings in Japan," said Terumasa Nakanishi, professor of international relations at Shizuoka University. "The Japanese were exposed to a typically American self-righteous justification of resorting to war. It helped convince Japanese that they are culturally different."
For many Japanese and Americans, this is a time of reflection on their relationship. While the 50th anniversary of Pearl Harbor brings reminders of the unpleasant past, the visit of President Bush in January to meet the newly elected Prime Minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, is turning everyone's attention to current problems.
The current strains are exacerbated by what Japanese see as the spectacle of a once all-powerful United States struggling with debt, deficits, weak financial institu- tions, and mounting social problems, making them wonder about America's ability to maintain its world leadership.
Leaders of both the United States and Japan, which together account for 40 percent of the world's economic output and 40 percent of aid to poor countries, defend their record and say cooperation is better than is often perceived.
"The basic trend is very satisfactory," said Koichiro Matsuura, director general of the North American bureau at the Foreign Ministry. "Nobody can disagree that the ties between Japan and the United States have become much better. It's the perceptions that have deteriorated."
But other recent events -- particularly the American decision to withdraw 15,000 of the 135,000 troops stationed in Japan, South Korea and the Philippines -- have made Japanese leaders nervous about the future reliability of the United States.
The United States' recent failure to win agreement in the Philippines for renewal of American bases there, which has accelerated the pullout from Asia, has shaken Japan. Indeed, Tokyo agreed to give the Philippines $1 billion in aid at the Americans' urging, hoping to persuade Manila to keep American troops.
 
Fear of Creating A Power Vacuum
 Now there is widespread nervousness in Japan and Asia that an American withdrawal could leave a vacuum and stimulate an arms race among Asian nations. Asians are nervous that Japan is slightly modifying its long-held pacifism and preparing to send troops abroad for the first time since World War II, as part of United Nations peacekeeping forces.
"A power vacuum in Asia is something we must prevent," said Makoto Sakuma, chairman of the joint staff council of the Defense Agency. "If the American military presence in Asia is withdrawn, not only Japan but Asia as a whole will suffer instability."
Because of American economic weakness, Washington has put pressure on Tokyo to increase its share of the burden of 56,000 troops in Japan. Japan now pays about half the cost, or about $3 billion a year, to support the American naval and ground forces, making it cheaper to station troops in Japan than in the United States.
The problem is that after the collapse of Communism, Japan and the United States may no longer see eye to eye on security.
As The Times/CBS News/Tokyo Broadcasting System poll showed, many Japanese opposed the gulf war and generally are more opposed than Americans to using American military force in the world. This contradiction could become a crisis in a future conflict requiring American troops based in Japan.
"Americans would be wise to abandon the term 'burden sharing' because it both reeks of American self-righteousness and amounts to a self-advertisement of America's declining ability to carry out an independent foreign policy," Chalmers Johnson, Rohr professor of Pacific international relations at the University of California at San Diego, wrote recently.
Moreover, many Japanese feel that the concentration of 29,000 marines in Okinawa cannot last. The new governor of that island has for the first time demanded an American withdrawal, a step that would eliminate a base from which the first marines traveled to the gulf last year.
At the heart of the Japanese-American relationship have been efforts on myriad fronts to reduce the trade deficit, which has in fact fallen in recent years. But all the negotiations, even those that have yielded results, have taken their toll in a subtle way.
"The Japanese find it hard to make concessions, only to be faced with new demands," said Michael C. Armacost, the United States Ambassador, in explaining the Japanese inflexibiity. "We find it frustrating to have to demand that Japan market access that we extend in our own country. I wish there was another way of doing these things."
American leaders are nettled by the refusal of Japan to lift its ban on rice imports or take other steps to break the deadlock in the current Uruguay Round of trade talks. In Washington's view, Tokyo is not protecting and defending the world trading system from which it benefits more than any other nation.
The United States trade deficit with Japan has narrowed to $41 billion last year from a peak of $56 billion in 1987, and there have been agreements on supercomputers, semiconductors, construction contracts and many other sectors. Japan's imports from the United States have doubled in five years. But both sides agree that the long-term trends are disturbing. The deficit is bound to go back up as the United States recovers from its recession and the demand for imports surges. Japan is also exporting more to the United States indirectly, from factories in other parts of Asia and is commanding a larger share of the American market through goods produced in its own American factories, too.
Moreover, Japan has spent five years mobilizing its resources -- investing two and a half times as much as the United States in new plants, equipment and research -- to produce new products.
While Japan has prepared in this fashion, the United States has begun lodging more fundamental criticisms of Japan's cozy business relationships, and its whole policy of submerging consumer interests to those of business, the very things that Japanese feel have been secrets to their success.
 
An Outpouring By Critics in Japan

Japan has responded with an outpouring of critical comments among scholars, businessmen and politicians, many disdainful of the United States, suggesting that the United States is blaming Japan for its problems.
One economist, Seiichiro Saito, a professor at Rikkyo University, said that the United States was becoming a "vegetable nation" suffering from a kind of degenerative disease which makes it unconscious of its problems and able only to demand to borrow money from Japan and other countries.
Japanese do not like to express their feelings openly, but it is almost impossible to speak with anyone in a position of responsibility and not pick up an undercurrent of criticism, friendly and not so friendly.
"The whole U.S. society seems to be deteriorating," a senior Japanese diplomat said. "Americans are losing their ability to communicate among themselves. Everyone is either fighting or hiring lawyers, and America's ability to integrate different elements into a melting pot is weakening. So Americans are looking for scapegoats and blaming Japan."
Many diplomats and negotiators also feel that having tried to resolve their differences on a number of trade issues, they are down to the fact that Japanese and Americans are simply different culturally, and that America should stop lecturing Japan to change.
"Americans ought to learn to respect the differences among people who live outside the United States," said Kazuo Ogura, director of cultural affairs at the Foreign Ministry. "Americans simply don't want to recognize that Japan has won the economic race against the West."
Japanese and Americans agree that in the environment after the cold war, where both countries no longer fear a Soviet military threat, the staggering economic interdependence of Japan and the United States is the glue that binds the two nations together.
Japan now has an estimated $83 billion in direct American investments, although the rate of growth dropped sharply in the last year. But Japanese-owned factories and other interests employ many Americans and have become a crucial part of the economy.
Meanwhile, Japan counts on American markets for a third of its global exports, and Tokyo carefully monitors every bill in Congress that would restrict the flow. Japanese officials, knowing that President Bush has opposed such measures, mask some of their disappointments with his Administration.
His support will be critical as it carves out a broader role in world affairs. It is seeking upgraded status at the Interntional Monetary Fund and permanent membership in the United Nations Security Council. It also wants removal of clauses in the United Nations charter referring to Japan as a former enemy state. American support for these steps is seen in Japan as lukewarm.
Japan and the United States maintain that they have achieved impressive cooperation in the areas of foreign aid, environment, narcotics, refugees and debt relief for developing nations. But the record is mixed.
Japan this year doubled its contribution to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, for example, and for the first time a Japanese, Sadako Ogata, a respected scholar on international relations, has been chosen to that agency or indeed any other international agency.
But on foreign aid to poor countries, Japan has been struggling to fulfill its promises to provide help commensurate with its status as an economic superpower. In 1989, Japan achieved the position of the largest donor of foreign aid in the world, but in 1990 the United States regained the title.
International organizations want Japan to do more because it spends only 1 percent of its gross national product on its military, as opposed to 6 percent by the United States. Many have asked Japan raise its foreign aid spending also to 1 percent, but it has remained at less than four-tenths of 1 percent, making it only the eighth biggest giver in terms of economic capacity.
 
The Japanese Way Of Giving Out Aid
 The way Japan has given out aid has also remained controversial. Tokyo continues emphasize big industrial projects that help its own companies.
After war broke out in the gulf, for instance, Japan announced a $2 billion economic package for the region, largely for projects like the Beniseuf cement factory in Egypt, being built by the Mitsubishi Corporation and Kobe Steel, and the Golden Horn Bridge in Turkey, being built by IHI, a Japanese construction company.
Nor has Japan succeeded in developing a consistent philosophy for its foreign aid program. Last year, Tokyo announced that it would not give aid to countries that exported weapons, and would use its aid to promote democracy and human rights. But Japan has persisted in giving aid to China, a leading arms exporter, and has refused to cut off aid to Burma.
"Japan lacks a focus on what it is actually trying to achieve with its foreign aid," said Robert M. Orr, director of the Kyoto Center for Japanese Studies, and author of the book "The Emergence of Japan's Foreign Aid Power." He added, "It doesn't fit into any coherent world vision."
In the environmental area, the global partnership appears mostly to be a slogan masking continuing disagreements on matters like global warming, destruction of tropical forests by Japanese companies and protection of endangered species.
All the difficulties and differences of perspective between Japan and the United States have caused some to predict much greater conflict ahead, especially who fear Japanese intentions over the long term, although they concede that the alliance is strong for now.
Professor Johnson, at the University of California at San Diego, has warned that Japan's American investments amount to an attempt to colonize the United States, that Japan could move away from Washington's orbit and try to create a a yen-based regional trading bloc.
"In the case of Japan," he wrote recently, "past behavior and current capabilities are so extraordinary and so formidable as to cause any other nation or people to be concerned about its future intentions."
Such talk is dismissed by most Americans and Japanese. Those Japanese who argue that Japan should indeed assert its interests, even if they are antithetical to those of the United States, take the most pains to tell Americans that they should not worry that there are conflicts.
"Japan has learned the lessons of war, and we are determined never to go beyond these four islands anywhere in the world," said Jun Eto, a conservative-oriented visiting professor at Keio University. "But the United States and Japan will have to learn to live with constant conflict. We are both competitive, jealous and powerful nations, after all."
"Conflict doesn't mean war," he added. "The greatest lesson of World War II, is that we in Japan have to live with Americans whether we like it or not. But I don't know whether that's a lesson learned in America."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	NEXT: A decade of difficult trade talks leaves both sides unsatisfied.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States is pressuring Japan to increase its contribution to the cost of keeping American troops in Japan. The aircraft carrier Independence, shown in its home port of Yokosuka several months ago, is part of the United States naval force based in Japan. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A16)
 
Graphs: "The New York Times/CBS News/Tokyo Broadcasting System Poll" shows reponse to question: "How would you describe relations between Japan and the United States today?" (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: 9401 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); PHILIPPINES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GULF STATES (56%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; PHILIPPINES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); PHILIPPINES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GULF STATES (56%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DESERT STORM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



95 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Japan and the U.S. are struggling to prevent their successful alliance from being engulfed by a rising tide of frustrations, resentments and recriminations. [Page A1.] 
 Most people in Japan and the U.S. say relations are friendly, their alliance dependable, a poll shows. [A16.]
The failure of Pirelli to acquire Continental is seen as a costly demonstration of the way Germany's banks and businesses can close ranks to thwart a hostile takeover. [D2.]
The shattered economies of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union could soon reach the breaking point, a U.N. commission warned, saying their slide should be called a depression. [D3.]
 
Companies
NCR agreed to acquire Teradata, a California computer company, for $520 million worth of A.T.& T. stock. [D1.]
Salomon Brothers has won back the World Bank's business after three months of suspension. [D1.]
The first working prototype of a digital high-definition TV system has been built by a General Instrument division. [D1.]
Visa announced plans to change its membership rules to make it easier for companies other than banks to issue Visa cards. [D1.]
McDonnell Douglas said it had put another financial problem behind it by settling a tax dispute with the I.R.S. [D2.]
Goldman, Sachs has reportedly completed the sale of $275 million worth of interests in the firm to 22 insurance companies. [D3.]
Unisys shares jumped more than 35 percent in heavy trading after a report that it might become a takeover target. [D4.]
Digital Equipment will display four new models of competitively priced RISC-based work stations in San Francisco. [D4.]
The New York Times has introduced new printing inks substantially less likely to rub off on readers' fingers. [D19.]
The Knoxville Journal said it would cease publication as a daily on Dec. 31. [D19.]
El Paso Electric said it could be forced to file for bankruptcy protection, saying it was unable to obtain loan guarantees. [D4.]
The F.D.A. authorized wider use of THA, Warner-Lambert's experimental drug for Alzheimer's disease. [C3.]
 
The Economy
The nation's manufacturing economy grew far more slowly in November than October, hurt by lower production and new orders, a survey shows. [D1.] Construction spending rose 1 percent in October, the fourth straight monthly gain. [D7.]
Sugar cane growers are aiming to shed their image as an industry that fears publicity. [D1.]
 
Markets
The stock market closed sharply higher, bouncing back briskly after a steep early decline. The Dow gained 40.70, to 2,935.38. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury securities rose in moderately active trading, pushed higher partly by buying in overseas markets. [D16.]
Prices of grain and soybean futures rose in a late rally on news that the Soviet Union and U.S. had agreed on food aid. [D17.] The dollar ended mostly lower. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
Is there enough good news to generate a recovery? Increasingly the answer is veering from yes to no. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
The pace of dividend declarations by American companies is starting to improve, even as pressure grows in Washington to do something for the economy. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
Lee A. Iacocca has returned to the airwaves, and advertising and auto executives are split over the effectiveness of his appearances on Chrysler's behalf. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); TDC (NYSE) (56%); EE (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS311314 CANE SUGAR MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2061 CANE SUGAR EX. REFINING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); TERADATA CORP (56%); EL PASO ELECTRIC CO (53%); SUGAR CANE GROWERS COOPERATIVE OF FLORIDA (51%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); FUTURES (74%); MANUFACTURING SIMULATION & PROTOTYPING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); INSURANCE (69%); CHEMICALS (68%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (68%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (68%); NEW ORDERS (66%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (64%); GRAIN MARKETS (64%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (64%); DYES & PIGMENTS (63%); SUGAR FARMING (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (50%); PRINTING INK (50%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



96 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Sugar Growers Seek Cleaner Image

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CLEWISTON, Fla.

 BODY:
The annual harvest of sugar cane from South Florida's mucky flatlands is in full swing. The horizon is flecked with smoke from fields being torched to clear leaves, and by steam from the mills that grind endlessly. The grunts and sullen chatter of cane cutters who sever the singed stalks inches from the ground vie with the whining of mechanical harvesters.
There is one surprising difference this year: the cane growers, long envied for their Government subsidies and vilified for their labor and environmental practices, aim to shed their image as an industry that fears publicity. That image, the industry has concluded, has undermined its clout in Washington and Florida and made it hard to attract public sympathy on issues like water management that threaten the growers' future. 
 "The idea is to get everything on the table," said J. Nelson Fairbanks, president of the United States Sugar Company, which began the public effort to win friends. "We haven't been confronting allegations and misperceptions."
[Yesterday, U. S. Sugar announced that it would plead guilty to eight counts of violating Federal hazardous waste disposal laws at one of its mills and pay a $3.75 million fine. The violations, which took place between 1986 and 1989, caused no measurable harm to the environment, the company said, adding that the mill passed two subsequent state investigations with no further violations.]
The industry's most infamous sore point over the years has been its reliance on some 10,000 seasonal workers, mostly Jamaican, who are imported each year for the five-month harvest. Persistent charges of worker mistreatment are costly to fight -- so costly, the growers say, that the companies are being herded toward the use of expensive harvesting machinery that sometimes cuts cane inefficiently and damages the fragile soil.
The growers, like other farmers, are also worried about the future of Government subsidies. Sugar price supports cost the Government nothing in most years because they are linked to import quotas set at levels calculated to push domestic prices higher than the guaranteed support level. But the price supports are increasingly unpopular in Washington because they drive up the cost of consumer products -- by $3 billion annually according to critics -- and undermine the Bush Administration's credibility when it pushes other Governments to support freer trade.
 
An Environmental Showdown
 The problem that drove home the need for the growers to improve their image, though, is a three-year-old confrontation with Federal and state environmental regulators over how to improve the quality of the water flowing into the Everglades.
The regulators agreed last summer on a proposed settlement that could saddle the growers with a large chunk of an estimated $440 million cost to create a new marshland for filtering water reaching the Everglades. The proposal would also force growers to make sure that water leaving their property is cleaner than the rain that falls on it.
The growers say the settlement, now before a Federal judge in Miami, could wipe out cane production and most other forms of agriculture in southern Florida, which provides a large portion of winter vegetables and citrus for the eastern United States.
The growers hope their arguments will appeal to residents in the booming cities on Florida's Atlantic coast if the settlement is subjected to a public review process. They say, for instance, that a threat to the cane industry is a threat to urban water supplies because water flowing from their irrigation systems acts as a reservoir for the cities' wells.
State officials say the cane growers are exaggerating their potential liability, particularly if the industry can demonstrate that it contributes as little to pollution as it claims. And they say the growers remain more confrontational than open.
"They have launched the most concerted attack ever by anyone against the state agencies," said Daniel Thompson, general counsel to the Florida Department of Environmental Resources. "They have 17 different proceedings of various sorts going against the settlement."
 
Disproportionate Clout
 Until the water battle arose, the publicity-shy Florida cane growers often seemed to pack clout far out of proportion to their economic importance. The 430,000 acres of cane land in this region account for over half the nation's sugar cane production, which besides in Florida can be found in Louisiana, Texas and Hawaii. But the acreage adds up to only 20 percent of the nation's total sugar output, once beet sugar production and imports are included.
The growers, though, are big landowners -- a plantation of several hundred acres would be scarcely large enough to support the equipment needed -- and most also grow fruit, vegetables or rice. More important, they have powerful allies on price-support and quota issues: the corn farmers across the nation who peg the price of their high-fructose syrup at a level just under sugar.
The cane growers tell visitors that sugar is a bargain, one of the few products that does not cost more in 1991 than it did a decade earlier.
The growers also tell visitors how the industry was repeatedly blamed for environmental problems like pollution of Lake Okeechobee that later proved to be primarily the fault of others, notably dairy farms to the north. They say they are unfairly tarred by the corrupt handling of worker savings by the Jamaican Government. And they offer mounds of documents suggesting that many of the labor complaints result from regulators and courts applying new interpretations to contracts that have existed for years.
 
A Differing Assessment
 None of these issues is so simple in the eyes of critics.
"It's not a question of new interpretations," scoffs Bruce Goldstein, a lawyer in Washington with the Farmworker Justice Fund, when asked about the contract disputes. "They hide from the Department of Labor what they are doing, while the department engages in ostrichism and acts surprised when we reveal what is going on."
United States Sugar's new policy of welcoming inquiries from outsiders has been followed by the Sugar Cane Growers Cooperative in nearby Belle Glade, which represents 54 smaller growers, and, with little enthusiasm, by Flo-Sun Inc,, the holding company of the Cuban-born Fanjul brothers. The Fanjuls, who have overtaken United States Sugar as the biggest local grower, have attracted the strongest criticism in recent years.
 
Continuing Labor Criticism
 The longest-running problem of the growers is their labor-relations record.
In 1942, United States Sugar was indicted for conspiring to enslave workers brought from Georgia and other states after an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. That case was dropped, as the sugar companies turned to Jamaica and other Caribbean islands for workers. But the improvements in pay and working conditions have been too gradual and grudging to ever put the labor troubles completely to rest.
In a village owned by United States Sugar in the cane fields some five miles from Clewiston there are ranks of small houses crammed with bunk beds and packages of electronic goods that cane cutters have accumulated to send home. Small palms and flowering bushes planted by company-hired landscapers add a touch of beauty.
But no one pretends that the work itself is not boring, dangerous and difficult. Typically, about one-third of the workers will incur some kind of injury.
While some may average $10 an hour or more with bonus, the average worker at a top-paying company like United States Sugar will end up with about $1.25 an hour more than the guaranteed minimum of $5.38 an hour, according to company accountants. But lawyers representing farm workers say that workers are often paid below guaranteed minimums because the industry's system of paying by the row.
The cane cutters are expected to work a six-day week but those who want to can work seven, which many do for several weeks in a row to earn extra money.
 
Ruled by the Dollar
 Workers gratefully grasp the chance to accumulate cash that would be impossible to come by in their poverty-stricken homeland, but they also talk of feeling powerless and exploited.
"In the old days of slavery, they ruled us with a whip," said Warren Francis, a cane cutter back for his second harvest. "Now they do it with the dollar."
A growing number of companies, starting with the Talisman Sugar Company in 1962, have abandoned the labor battle by switching to fully mechanized harvesting. The machines have been gradually upgraded, but they are no match for the most skilled human cutters.
And in the muckier fields, usually the most valuable, the big machines easily damage the soil, often forcing growers to replant cane every three years instead of on a four- or five-year cycle.
Nevertheless, most growers are now following Talisman's lead.
"Florida will go to close to 100 percent mechanized in the next five years," said George Wedgworth, president of the cooperative.
No one foresees such a clear-cut resolution to the environmental and subsidy questions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The sugar industry relies on seasonal workers, mostly Jamaican, to harvest sugar cane. Anthony Jackson, shown hacking at cane, is a Jamaican member of the United States Sugar Company's South Shore crew. (Barnaby J. Feder/The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Map of Florida showing locations of Belle Glade and Clewiston. (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: US SUGAR CORP

ORGANIZATION: US SUGAR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; FLORIDA UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SUGAR; FINES (PENALTIES); WATER POLLUTION; LABOR; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL SUGAR FARMING (92%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (92%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); SUGAR MFG (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (88%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CROP HARVESTING SERVICES (78%); SUGAR MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); SEASONAL WORKERS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (71%); WATER QUALITY (70%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (67%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (62%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (54%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



97 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Jan Papanek, 95, Czechoslovak Who Stood Up to Communism

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Jan Papanek, a prominent member of the democratic postwar Government of Czechoslovakia who made a dramatic exit as his country's United Nations delegate in 1948 and then devoted his efforts to the refugees from its Stalinist regime, died on Saturday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 95 years old.
His family said he died after a prolonged illness. 
 Mr. Papanek's role was acknowledged only last month by the reborn democracy in Prague when President Vaclav Havel honored him with the Thomas G. Masaryk Order, first class. The order was created by the Czechoslovak Republic after the fall of Communism to reward distinguished service to democracy.
Mr. Papanek was an associate of President Eduard Benes and his Foreign Minister, Jan Masaryk, serving as the personal representative of President Benes in this country during World War II. He first came to the United States in 1936 as a member of the Czechoslovak Legation in Washington.
 
Denouncer of Communism
 Mr. Papanek always took pride in being remembered for denouncing the Soviet-engineered Communist takeover of his country before the United Nations Security Council in 1948. The new authorities promptly branded him a traitor and cashiered him as Prague's representative to the United Nations, with which he had been associated since the organization's birth.
But the coup led a spate of people to flee Czechoslovakia as the Communists tightened their grip. In response, Mr. Papanek founded the American Fund for Czechoslovak Refugees, which helped many thousands of them to find a new home.
In more recent years, the agency assisted not only those of his countrymen who managed to slip out illegally, but Southeast Asian and Chinese refugees as well.
 
Czechoslovak Legion
 Mr. Papanek's purpose was to get the new arrivals on the road to self-support as quickly as possible. He remained president of the humanitarian fund until five years ago, driving daily to his Manhattan office from his home.
Mr. Papanek was born in Brezova in western Slovakia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. In World War I, he helped Gen. Milan Stefanik organize the Czechoslovak Legion, which fought the Austrians with the Allies on the Italian front.
Mr. Papanek then completed his education, taking law degrees at the Sorbonne and in Prague. He entered the Prague Foreign Ministry in 1922.
 
Role in Government-in-Exile
 After various assignments in and out of Prague, he was sent to Chicago by President Benes in 1939 to work toward the liberation of Czechoslovakia from its Nazi German occupiers. Two years later, he was named Minister Plenipotentiary in charge of the Czechoslovak Government-in-Exile Information Service in New York.
He accompanied Mr. Masaryk to the San Francisco Conference that adopted the United Nations Charter in 1945 and became his country's representative at the United Nations the year after. During his tenure he also served as a member and acting president of the organization's Economic and Social Council.
Mr. Papanek is survived by his wife of nearly 66 years, Betka, and a brother, Stefan, of Chicago.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jan Papanek (The New York Times, 1986)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); AMERICAN FUND FOR CZECHOSLOVAK REFUGEES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); AMERICAN FUND FOR CZECHOSLOVAK REFUGEES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); AUSTRIA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); REFUGEES (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); POLITICS (73%); 

PERSON: PAPANEK, JAN; SAXON, WOLFGANG VACLAV HAVEL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



98 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Warn Libya of Possible Sanctions

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 2

 BODY:
The European Community today raised the possibility of imposing sanctions on Libya if it did not extradite several senior Libyan Government officials accused of planting bombs that destroyed an American and a French airliner in 1988 and 1989.
France, the United States and Britain had demanded that six senior Libyan officials be handed over for questioning on the accusations. 
 The statement issued in Brussels today said the community took "a most serious view of the accusations against officials of the Libyan Government." It went on to say the community "calls upon the Libyan authorities to comply promptly and in full" with the demands of the three countries.
European officials in Brussels said the community's statement indicated that a strong likelihood that severe economic sanctions would be imposed on the Government of Col. Muammar al-Qaddafi should it refuse to comply.
They said Libya should comply with the request in a matter of weeks.
The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said sanctions might include a ban on the daily sale of one million barrels of Libyan oil in Europe and, possibly, a ban on civilian airliners' landing in Libya.
Libya has so far refused to extradite the Libya suspects, but it has invited British, French and United States investigators to question them in Libya.
Britain and the United States have demanded the extradition of two senior Libyan officials for the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in December 1988, that killed 270 people, while France indicted four more and asked Libya to hand them over to French judicial investigators for questioning on the bombing of a French U.T.A. airliner over Niger in 1989 that killed 170. None of these countries have indicated their willingness to conduct investigations in Libya as the Libyans have suggested.
While the warning today stopped short of promising retaliatory measures if Libya continues to reject the demands, a community official said, "We are certainly talking about sanctions in case Libya does not comply."
Oil industry officials as well as European and Arab diplomats said all indications pointed to the fact that the West was indeed heading toward imposing a ban on the sale of Libyan oil in Europe, a move that could deprive Libya of access to its most lucrative oil market.
Italy is by far Libya's biggest customer, buying as much as 450,000 barrels of Libya oil daily. Germany imports some 230,000 barrels a day from Libya, which is its third largest source of imported crude oil and oil products. Other European customers include Spain, Greece, Turkey and Austria.
European officials acknowledge that an oil boycott would present several European countries, particularly Italy and Germany, with great difficulties in replacing the Libyan oil. Besides being from a nearby source, the Libyan crude has very low sulfur content, making it attractive for refining into oil products, especially gasoline.
The officials said that in addition to selling oil in Europe, Libya has acquired a number of refineries and a network of gasoline and service stations in several European countries as well as other properties, all of them valued at several billion dollars. Libya owns the Tamoil refinery in Cremona, Italy, which processes as much as 200,000 barrels of Libyan oil a day into products marketed throughout Europe.
European and United States officials said economic sanctions could also include the seizure of Libyan assets and their eventual use to generate funds for compensating relatives of the victims of the two bombings.
An Arab diplomat said he expected sanctions to be adopted sometime after the peak period of winter demand for oil was over around February.
Libya would then have great difficulties selling its oil, which would have to travel to distant markets in Asia and cost a great deal more in transportation fees. Libya would lose about $1.50 for every barrel it transports to Asia, which would cost the Libya treasury a yearly loss of $1 billion, representing more than 15 percent of its oil income.
Since the United States banned all imports of Libyan oil several years ago, the Libyans have routed their light variety of oil toward Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); GREECE (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); NIGER (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC ; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC ; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN; LIBYA LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); GREECE (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); NIGER (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM; EXTRADITION; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) EXTRADITION (93%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BOYCOTTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); TERRORISM (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (66%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); INDICTMENTS (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



99 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: George Joseph Stigler Dies at 80; Nobel Prize Winner in Economics

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
George Joseph Stigler, a Nobel Prize winner and intellectual anchor of the movement known as the Chicago school of economics, died at the University of Chicago's Bernard Mitchell Hospital on Sunday. He was 80 years old and lived in Chicago.
Mr. Stigler died of heart failure, said the university, where he taught economics for the last 32 years. 
 Mr. Stigler is probably best known to undergraduates as the author of "The Theory of Price," the coolly analytical textbook on free market economics that set the standard for a generation. Perhaps its most striking feature, and a trademark of Professor Stigler's writing, is that it sets economics in historical context.
"Few other economists around remembered where the ideas came from," said Robert Solow, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a fellow Nobel Prize winner. Gary Becker, a colleague at the University of Chicago, went further, calling Mr. Stigler "our modern interpreter of classical economics."
 
Analyzed Everything
 As a practitioner and historian of economics, Mr. Stigler analyzed everything from the optimal size of corporations to rates of return in manufacturing to the demand for scientists.
A conservative, he argued skillfully that the first priority for ending poverty was to make it possible for poor people to get jobs. Proposals to cut the minimum wage "will not please some people," he wrote in the mid-1960's. "A fine thing, they will say, to raise the economic status of the Negro boy by lowering his wage rate to a dollar an hour. A fine thing, indeed, I reply, to raise it from zero to a dollar."
But from the perspective of professional economists, Mr. Stigler's most important contributions are in the theories of information and regulation.
Before the 1961 publication of his article, "The Economics of Information," in the University of Chicago's Journal of Political Economy, economists had simply assumed that everyone shared the same knowledge of how markets worked -- say, the durability of an automobile for sale or the skills of a surgeon to be hired. Mr. Stigler argued that it costs money to acquire knowledge, and that consumers and businesses would therefore choose to buy limited quantities, much the way they choose to buy goods and services.
This seemingly commonplace point created a whole field in economics, one that seeks to answer questions ranging from why the same product can be sold at different prices in different places to why some businesses lay off employees in hard times and some do not.
The impact of Mr. Stigler's analysis of the political economy of regulation is less obvious, but perhaps more profound. Instead of taking the logic of government regulation at the word of legislators and regulators, Mr. Becker said, "he studied the actual effects of regulation -- why we get the regulation we get."
Mr. Stigler's most famous conclusion, that price controls of electric utilities do not actually reduce the price of electricity, did not convince many analysts when it was published in 1962. But most economists today would put the burden of proof on those who support regulation.
Mr. Stigler grew up in Seattle, the only child of the Austrian-born Elizabeth Hungler and the German-born Joseph Stigler. He studied economics at the University of Washington in Seattle, graduating in 1931.
"It was the middle of the Depression and it seemed better to go to school than look for work," he told a biographer. The next year he moved to Northwestern University for a master's degree in business administration, and then enrolled in the doctoral program at the University of Chicago.
Mr. Stigler's teachers included giants of the field like Frank Knight, Jacob Viner and Henry Simons.
Dr. Stigler received his Ph.D. from Chicago in 1938, two years later he joined the faculty of the University of Iowa. Then it was on to the University of Minnesota, Columbia University, Brown University and back to Columbia before returning to the University of Chicago in 1958.
The Nobel Prize in 1982 for his work culminated a career in which he raised the prestige and political influence of conservative economics. But, as Mr. Solow noted, "He was never an ideologue."
 
Intellectual Independence
 He was pro-business, but never gave up his intellectual independence in pursuit of business's approval. Indeed, in the 1950's he wrote scathingly about the inefficiency of the largest American corporations and even advocated the use of antitrust laws to cut them down to size. Later, he refused to serve in a prominent position in Richard M. Nixon's Administration and embarrassed Ronald Reagan's Administration by labeling supply-side economics "a gimmick."
Mr. Stigler's wife, the former Margaret Mack, died in 1970. He is survived by three sons, Steven, a statistician in Chicago; David, a lawyer in Hartford, and Joseph, a social worker in Toronto, and 11 grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George J. Stigler (Michael P. Weinstein, 1988)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; ECONOMICS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); NOBEL PRIZES (92%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HISTORY (75%); HEART DISEASE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); 

PERSON: STIGLER, GEORGE JOSEPH; PASSELL, PETER GEORGE JOSEPH STIGLER (97%); GEORGE JOSEPH (59%); ROBERT MERTON SOLOW (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



100 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: In California, New Talk Of Limits on Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 2

 BODY:
When times were good in the 1980's, California largely welcomed the millions of domestic and foreign immigrants who flooded into the state. But now that times have turned tough, a cry has risen to narrow the gates to the Golden State.
The cry has been led by Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, who has been saying that immigrants, foreign and domestic, are putting the state in a fiscal squeeze by using more in services than they pay in taxes. Critics say it is nothing more than an racist attempt to find a scapegoat for the intractable social problems that have been building in California for two decades. 
 Almost from the Gold Rush days, California has vacillated between welcoming immigrants and resenting them. Thousands of Chinese laborers were brought in to build the railroads before the turn of the century, and then were excluded in a wave of anti-Chinese hysteria. During the Depression, waves of Okies migrated in search of opportunity and found hostility.
The latest great wave of immigration during the 1980's, when millions of immigrants from other states and from Asia and Latin America poured into California, added to the state's political power and wealth. Although a few environmentalists raised doubts about how many more people the state could absorb, the subject of controlling population was taboo in polite circles, where people feared being accused of racism.
 
Breaking the Taboo
 But suddenly that taboo has been broken. The state is mired deep in recession, and Governor Wilson says there are no longer enough taxpayers to support the growing ranks of tax receivers, many of them immigrants. He visited Washington on Nov. 25 to ask for more Federal help for California, which absorbed 35 percent of all the legal foreign immigrants to the United States during the last decade.
And in an interview in the Nov. 18 issue of Time magazine, the Governor argued that the state must reduce the "magnetic effect" of its generosity. While he does not claim that immigration is the central reason for California's fiscal troubles, he has said welfare payments that average $660 a month, nearly double the national average, are attracting immigrants here.
Governor Wilson's comments have set off a spirited debate, with some critics drawing parallels to the recent campaign for governor in Louisiana, where David Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader, ran as a Republican on a platform that some saw as racist and anti-immigrant.
State Senator David Torres, a Los Angeles Democrat who was chairman of a special Joint Legislative Committee on Refugee Resettlement, said Mr. Wilson "ought not to use the immigrants as the scapegoat for failed economic policies."
Governor Wilson has denied any racist intent. The state's dominant newspaper, The Los Angeles Times, agreed but editorialized Wednesday that the Governor's words could be misinterpreted as "the search not for answers but for scapegoats, political or otherwise."
 
Staggering Growth
 The debate has underscored the fragility of the social compact of California, the most ethnically diverse state in the nation. According to the Census Bureau, the state gained a staggering 6.1 million in population over the last decade and now is home to 29.8 million. Of that increase, a little more than half came from migration, about evenly divided between migrants from other states and from foreign countries, not counting illegal immigration.
By most analyses, this immigration played a major role in the California boom by providing a cheap labor force and large numbers of entrepreneurs starting up businesses who added to the demand for housing and services. As recently as 1988, the state returned $1 billion in rebates to taxpayers.
But this year, the state was forced to bridge a $14.3 billion budget gap, a gap that is still growing. According to a recent analysis by the state's Department of Finance, this is largely because of a rapid population shift in which the number of young people, who need schooling and other services, has exploded and economically productive people between the ages of 45 and 64 have moved out of state.
Should these demographic changes persist, the report stated, this "imbalance between taxpayers and tax receivers" could cause a $20 billion budget gap by the year 2000. By that time, it estimated, the state's dependency rate -- that is, the proportion of people under 18 and over 64 years old, who tend to need social services -- would rise from 58 percent today to 68 percent.
 
Immigrants on Welfare
 The department attributed the fiscal troubles in part to immigrants. It said that in 1990, foreign immigrants accounted for 4.5 percent of the caseload of Medi-Cal, the state's medical aid program for low-income persons, as against 1.3 percent in 1980. The caseload will increase to nearly 13 percent by the year 2000, it projected.
Experts link the reason for the demand on social services to several factors, including new laws and the change in the type of migrants from other states. Kassy Perry, spokeswoman for the state's Health and Welfare Agency, cited the Federal Immigration Reform Act passed by Congress in 1986 that granted amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants and other Federal laws that made about 300,000 additional persons eligible for Medi-Cal in 1988.
And while illegal aliens are ineligible for welfare, their American-born children are not, and the Supreme Court has ruled that local schools must accept such children. Caseloads forAid to Families with Dependent Children, the state's main welfare program, have tripled to two million over three years.
And refugees, mainly from Vietnam, Cambodia and other Southeast Asian countries, who have settled in California in recent years have been a particular burden. Forty percent of the refugees go on welfare in their first year, Ms. Perry said. About 7 percent of the general population is on welfare.
But it is not just foreign immigrants who are burdening California services. Seven percent, or more than 140,000 people, of the Aid to Families with Dependent Children caseload is accounted for by persons who moved to California from other states in the last 12 months.
 
Avoiding the Question
 The issue of controlling population has long been a delicate one, tinged as it is with racial and ethnic overtones. The question was avoided in a recent report by a panel at the Sacramento campus of the California State University, which was trying to achieve some consensus on growth management among interest groups.
Environmentalists tried to get a discussion going on the subject, but their attempt was rejected by Hispanics on the panel. "That was a sign of how difficult the issue is, especially if your parents were illegal," Larry Orman, executive director of the Greenbelt Alliance, a nonprofit group that promotes the preservation of undeveloped land around San Francisco, said last week in an interview. "How long can California maintain an open-door policy for immigrants who require services? Even if they climb out over time, California has only so much resources financially."
Another member of the panel, Fernando J. Guerra, chairman of the Chicano Studies Department at Loyola Marymount University, whose parents came from Mexico, said in an interview that the focus on immigrants was "classic scapegoating." He argued that the critics of immigration fail to take into account the role immigrants have had in fueling the economy.
But George J. Borjas, an economist at the University of California at San Diego, author of "Friends or Strangers" (Basic Books), a 1990 book on the economic effects of immigration, maintained that there is some validity to Governor Wilson's statements.
"The new immigrants are joining the welfare system at a much higher rate than the older immigrants," he said. "It's a net loss for the country. They're taking more out than they're putting in. They seem to be more unskilled and they have less education."
Another expert on immigration, Julian L. Simon, a professor of business administration at the University of Maryland and author of the 1989 book "The Economic Consequences of Immigration" (Basil Blackwell), agreed that in the short run new immigrants may represent a burden to the state.
"But in the long run, California is definitely helped by immigration," he said. "It's important to focus on the long-run situation rather than the little blips."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Where New Californians Came From" shows net increase in the state's population from each source from '81 to '90 (Source: California Department of Finance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (92%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); POLITICS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); REFUGEES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TRENDS (69%); RECESSION (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (51%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT; WILSON, PETE (GOV) PETE BARTON WILSON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



101 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Campaign Signs On Strategists Who Aided Wofford

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
The Presidential campaign of Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas has signed on the two men who masterminded Senator Harris Wofford's upset victory in Pennsylvania last month, an event that has already acquired mythic status in Democratic Party circles.
Mr. Clinton announced today that the men, James Carville and Paul Begala, would serve as general campaign consultants. "James and Paul will help us build on the tremendous progress the campaign is making around the country," he said. 
 The Governor has ridden a wave of good reviews in recent days, mostly resulting from his performance two weeks ago at a gathering of Democratic Party leaders in Chicago. In a field still struggling for recognition and still shadowed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's indecision on entering the race, Mr. Clinton was widely seen as a standout.
The hiring of Mr. Carville and Mr. Begala is likely to feed the perception that Mr. Clinton's campaign is building momentum.
Mr. Wofford's defeat of former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh had a significant effect on Democratic thinking about what was possible next year and the issues that would make it so.
Senator Wofford, who had been appointed to fill the unexpired term of the late John Heinz until an election could be held, ran hard on the plight of the middle class, including the threat of unemployment and the need for a national health-care plan. Mr. Clinton has already built his campaign around the "forgotten middle class," with a host of domestic policy prescriptions on issues like the rising cost of a college education and economic competitiveness.
One top Democratic strategist, who spoke on condition of anonymity, suggested that Mr. Carville and Mr. Begala would add more of a populist touch -- "a lot more of the pickup truck" -- to Mr. Clinton's policy-oriented campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); STUDENT EXPENSES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); CARVILLE, JAMES; BEGALA, PAUL E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



102 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Wales Journal;
Big Classes and Little Hope at School

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WALES, Mass., Dec. 2

 BODY:
Lisa Valle looked in the school room, saw her daughter and about 70 other small children sitting row after row, coloring their work sheets, and seethed. "This is disgusting," she said. "My blood is boiling just standing here."
Ms. Valle and other parents hovered in the hallways today, watching anxiously as 199 children were prompted, cajoled and herded by only three teachers into classes considered to be the largest in the state, if not the country. 
 The defeat of a referendum on Nov. 12 to raise $160,000 in additional property taxes to cover a shortage of about 25 percent in the school budget touched off the layoffs of five of seven teachers at Wales Elementary School last Wednesday. On Monday, with the principal serving as an instructor, three new classes were formed, each with one teacher: fifth and sixth graders merged into one class; third and fourth graders in another, and 75 kindergartners, first and second graders made up the largest class. The school's open classroom design meant that only partitions and desks had to be moved.
Although a second attempt to pass the referendum is scheduled for Jan. 3, Wales has become the latest and perhaps most striking example so far of financial disarray and parental disappointment in Massachusetts' public schools.
"This is just one big baby-sitting hall right now," said Tony Guglielmo, the parent of a Wales sixth grader. "There's no education going on."
Some parent volunteers roamed the classrooms as aides today, trying to keep children quiet and busy and giving the teachers a chance to work with small reading or math groups.
The school's principal, Joseph DiFabio, conceded the situation was not good. "We don't pretend there will be good education going on at Wales Elementary for the next month."
School officials and educators blame the state's reliance on local property taxes for the teacher layoffs that have become common in Massachusetts over the last three years. State law limits increases in the annual property tax to 2.5 percent without a special referendum.
In the boom years of the 1980's, schools did not feel the pinch because the state could afford to offer more help, at levels approaching 42 percent of the cost of primary and secondary education in peak years. But with the recession, the state estimates it now contributes only about 25 percent of those costs.
Rural communities like Wales cannot keep filling the gap, said officials in this town of 1,500 people, perched on hilly ground 20 miles east of Springfield, Mass. Unemployment is high, and there is no commercial tax base and little hope of more residential growth because of the town's remote location, town officials say.
Instead, they are counting on state legislators to settle on one of several new school finance proposals to funnel more state money to local schools that need it most. Otherwise, they say, what is happening to Wales will repeat itself all over the state.
"Clearly educationally, this is an indefensible situation, and we have to correct it," said David Roach, the Superintendent of Schools for Wales and four neighboring towns. Middle school and high school students in the five towns attend a regional high school. Because voters in Wales approved the regional school budget earlier in the year, the elementary school has suffered the most.
Some teachers blame parents and other residents for being out of touch and not recognizing that layoffs would happen if the referendum failed.
Parents who are worried that their children will fall behind without more individual attention say they do not know what to believe. Ms. Valle, who has two other children besides her Wales second grader, said she and her husband, a blacksmith, cannot afford to pay their $2,000 property tax bill this year. She also questioned whether the school needs the additional money. "I want the books in this town checked," she said.
It is hard to believe what property taxes the town collects will not go far enough to hire at least one teacher for each grade, Ms. Valle said. "What the hell is my daughter going to learn coloring?" she demanded. "I could send her to the store to buy a quart of milk and she could learn to count the change. I have a 12th-grade education but I could do a better job than this."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A failed referendum resulted in the layoffs of five of seven teachers at Wales Elementary School in Wales, Mass. For the remaining teachers, like George Ferraro, it meant the merging of classes. Mr. Ferraro talked to a class of third graders while fourth graders worked on a lesson at rear. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Massachusetts highlighting Wales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); WALES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WALES (MASS); MASSACHUSETTS UNITED STATES (94%); WALES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; FINANCES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); CITIES (60%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



103 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
A Greenwich Quandary: Reining In Philanthropy

BYLINE: By Andrew H. Malcolm

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn.

 BODY:
THE public school system here has a problem with gifts. The problem is not with finding rich people to give the gifts. It's handling all the offers of gifts that drift its way.
And so the eight-member Board of Education of one of the nation's most affluent communities, here on the tree-pocked shoreline border of New York and Connecticut, has just completed a rigorous debate on the philosophical issue of private gifts to public bodies. It is a question that thousands of other districts would love to have the luxury of tackling. One thousand points of lights or not, the board decided unanimously that it must crack down. "At some point," said Thomas Heagney, a lawyer and outspoken board member, "we need to draw the line." The line, it turns out, is not necessarily a straight one. 
 In fact, no one knows how many gifts roll into the community's 13 schools every year from civic-minded corporate officers, who wouldn't mind earning a little goodwill; from the well-meaning wealthy, who wouldn't mind a tax deduction; from the relocating businessman, who doesn't want to move old equipment, or from the hard-working P.T.A. Finance Committee, which might need a fund-raising project.
Nor has anyone ever tracked the value of such gifts within Greenwich's $55 million schools budget. Since the landscaping largesse of one wealthy man, Rene Anselmo, has already passed the $350,000 mark at the Hamilton Avenue Elementary School this year, the assumption is that the charity total for the 6,600-student system is substantial.
This was a delicate debate. "Listen," said Jim Cuminale, the board's new president, "we wouldn't want to send a message of ungratefulness to anyone. But we must insure that private gifts do not disrupt or undermine the basic requirements that public money supports public education."
The newly passed policy requires advance board approval for any gift worth more than $5,000. It welcomes money, goods or services that expand existing programs such as scholarships, library books, field trips, playground equipment or musical instruments. But it forbids gifts that might dictate the direction of a particular program. It also prohibits door-to-door solicitations by students. And it warns that gifts, such as the fervent fund-raising by one Greenwich school's P.T.A. for an ambitious computer system, may be rejected because other town schools cannot match them.
Explained Stacy Orphanos, a longtime board member: "We'd hate to see one part of town that isn't well-off feeling pressured to go out and raise money to match one affluent neighborhood's effort."
"It is," admitted Mr. Cuminale, "a delicate balance. On one hand, we're constrained financially from doing all we'd like. But we shouldn't expect public education to be funded through the charity of some citizens."
Mr. Heagney sees private charity as a potential addiction of public education. "It's very tempting," he says. "It seems to be free. But public education should be publicly funded." That is why he voted against the board's recent decision to seek corporate donations to finance a winter session of English-as-a-second-language classes. The board majority reasoned that outside charity was acceptable in this case because it expanded an existing fall class.
"I have a real problem," Mr. Heagney added, "with Japanese corporations paying teacher salaries. What's more basic to American public education than English instruction?"
Mr. Anselmo, the multimillionaire benefactor at Hamilton Avenue and several other schools, is so bothered by the gift policy that he has withdrawn his plans to beautify another Greenwich school. "This is really all about power," he says. "Who needs the hassle just to do something good?"
Mr. Cuminale stresses that the board's vote last month merely formalizes and tightens longstanding procedures to prevent conflicts, miscommunication, wasted efforts and the appearance of schools sticking out their institutional hands. "As always," he said, "we'll still decide each gift on a case-by-case basis."
The problems of generosity have increased despite recent tough times, though the phenomenon of giving predates the current recession. In fact, 99 years and 11 months before the Greenwich Board of Education met in its Havermeyer Building to formalize the gift-receiving policy, the school system accepted the construction of that very building as a gift from a local wealthy family. (You'll never guess what their name was.)
But because the gift of a three-story Havermeyer Building threatened the view of Long Island Sound for another wealthy family, the Benedicts, that family offered to give the town another gift if the building's height were curtailed. All of which explains how the Benedict Building of Greenwich Hospital came to be, why the Havermeyer Building has only two floors and how, historically, a case-by-case gift policy really works.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREENWICH (CONN) UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GIFTS; PHILANTHROPY; ETHICS PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ETHICS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (66%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%); MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: MALCOLM, ANDREW H; CUMINALE, JIM ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



104 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Patterns

BYLINE: By Woody Hochswender

 BODY:

The Fear of Shoppers
The consumer has come under a microscope this season. Judging by the nonstop coverage on television and in newspapers, going to a store to buy something for Christmas is some sort of major event. 
 The President of the United States was filmed at a J. C. Penney over the weekend buying socks, reinforcing the impression that we have become a nation of skinflints. (Couldn't he at least have sprung for a sweater? How much are we paying him?)
"Lower consumer confidence has itself become news, adding to the general malaise," observed the Nov. 20 issue of a fashion newsletter published by Kurt Salmon Associates, a consulting firm. It added that such coverage was inducing retailers and shoppers "to write off this year's Christmas season in advance."
The images coming out of the malls seem to undercut the traditional American idea of keeping up with the Joneses; the Joneses, one gathers, are "just looking." Whatever happened to remembering people you care about on an annual basis?
You begin to feel embarrassed about sitting on Santa's lap and telling him you want Chanel.
 
See the Bear Ride the Pony
 One apparel notion that has been selling, retail executives said, is the new Ralph Lauren Polo Bear clothing. Instead of his famous polo pony, Mr. Lauren has been putting the image of a cuddly bear onto things like T-shirts and dress shirts.
Bears can also be found screened onto the back of a jean jacket, handknit on the front of a sweater or embroidered as a jacquard down the front of a tie. There are also stuffed teddy bears, at $450. The Polo/Ralph Lauren store at 72d Street and Madison Avenue sold out its stock of 200 bears over the weekend.
The Polo Bear idea was inspired by the teddy bears Mr. Lauren got as Christmas gifts last years from his design staff. They were dressed, naturally, in miniature Polo clothing.
 
Mizrahi and More
 Isaac Mizrahi has been named women's wear designer of the year by the Council of Fashion Designers of America, much to the relief of the designer and his staff, who had been a bit down about his recent spring show. (The lights went out in the middle of the show, and a richly detailed group of evening clothes had to be shown in half darkness.) Mr. Mizrahi also won the award in 1989.
Other 1991 council awards will go to Todd Oldham, as best new fashion talent; Karl Lagerfeld, for his Chanel fashion accessories, and the late Roger Forsythe of Perry Ellis, for his men's wear. The winners were chosen by a group of about 50 fashion editors and retail executives.
The awards will be presented on Feb. 3 at the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center, a new venue that should attract a broader spectrum of the garment industry. Past award dinners, held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, have been limited to about 600 or 700 people, each paying $850 a ticket, because of tight space.
Dinner tickets will still be $850, but about 1,500 additional tickets for the awards ceremony, dessert and dancing will be sold for $250, said Stan Herman, the president of the council. Some student tickets will also be available.
"It's sort of taking the C.F.D.A. into a different place," Mr. Herman said. "The 90's are different. I think we have to open it up to the world."
Additional special awards, voted on by the council's board of directors, will go to Marvin S. Traub, the former Bloomingdale's chairman, and Harley-Davidson, which has helped inspire a wave of motorcycle chic. There will also be three "women of the arts" awards, honoring Angelica Huston, the actress; Jessye Norman, the soprano, and Judith Jamison, the artistic director and former principal dancer of the Alvin Ailey Dance Theater.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES INC (57%); RALPH LAUREN CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); MEN'S CLOTHING (71%); US PRESIDENTS (57%); POLO (51%); 

PERSON: HOCHSWENDER, WOODY RALPH LAUREN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



105 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS: SOCCER;
World Cup Officials Set Out To Buy Time With Networks

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:
World Cup soccer officials are in town this week to attend the qualifying draw Sunday for the sports spectacle to be played in the United States in 1994. But of greater importance than who plays whom is who will televise it.
That issue was thought to be settled two years ago when the United States Soccer Federation agreed to an unusual partnership equity deal with NBC Sports in which the network would put up $11.5 million in return for a cut of certain sponsorship, advertising and ticket revenues. 
 But the governing body of international soccer, FIFA, nixed the deal. In a stunning misjudgment of a market ready to start tumbling, FIFA thought it could get more money elsewhere without becoming an equity partner with NBC.
So now, in a lousy market -- one in which the National Hockey League saw its new rights deal with SportsChannel America shrink by 68 percent -- soccer wants network money.
It won't happen so quickly. And the World Cuppers know it. That's why they are now willing to buy time on the networks rather than have a network buy the event outright. Buying time is a growing niche in sports television, in which organizers pay the networks for their time, then produce the event and sell all the commercial time.
"Buying time is a potential option," said Jim Trecker, a spokesman for World Cup USA 1994, the organizing committee for the 52-game tournament. "It may be better for us to package it and present it to a network."
What would such a deal cost for the 11 games that World Cup USA 1994 is offering to the networks? On NBC, where an hour a weekend afternoon costs about $300,000, 22 hours of coverage would cost about $6.6 million. On ABC, the cost would probably be less than $2 million.
Network figures who asked for anonymity say that NBC will make a time-buy proposal that it expects to be rejected, and that ABC and CBS will present similar plans as well as conventional proposals in which the networks would pay for the rights. Cheap rights fee proposals.
"It would not be a large commitment," said Jay Rosenstein, a vice president of CBS. "There is a possibility of succeeding economically."
 
Battle for Rights in Knick Territory
 There isn't a sports league in existence that likes to hear the word "antitrust" uttered in a negative light. As in "antitrust violations" or "antitrust questions." But those are the words the National Basketball Association is hearing from the Attorney General of Connecticut.
At issue is an N.B.A. policy that keeps blacks out a portion of the state west of Hartford hooked up to the United Artists Cable system from watching New York Knicks games on the MSG Network. The policy is absurd when you consider that the N.B.A. itself designated the area as Knicks territory.
Steve Toretto, a West Hartford lawyer who grew up in Corona and is an avid Knicks fan, noticed this anomaly two years ago when UA Cable added MSG to its channel menu. He could watch New York Yankees games and New York Rangers games on MSG. He could even watch Boston Celtics games on SportsChannel New England.
But no Knicks games. Each criterion for the blackout that the N.B.A. proferred in explanation to Toretto, he says, actually would have made his area exempt from the blackout. The true untold reason for the blackout remains a mystery to Toretto and 97,887 subscribers who can't watch the Knicks, although it's conceivable that the league considers the region Boston Celtics territory.
"I want to watch Patrick Ewing before I die," Toretto said.
Toretto's frustration was seconded in complaints by other subscribers to Richard Blumenthal, the Attorney General of Connecticut. Blumenthal's office recently served the N.B.A. with a subpoena demanding a raft of information that would somehow explain the policy. The N.B.A. has ignored the request, indicating its policy is none of Connecticut's business.
"It's disappointing that a sports league that depends so heavily on fan support is refusing to provide information on a matter that involves so many fans," says Blumenthal.
The N.B.A. will make its case for keeping the rationale for its policy a secret when it files a motion in Hartford Superior Court, due Dec. 13, to dismiss the subpoena. "I don't think the state of Connecticut understands the issue," said Gary Bettman, the N.B.A.'s general counsel. "Nobody's blacked out."
Well, 97,887 subscribers, are, even if they can watch Celtics games. Whether many of them are Knicks fans is irrelevant if the area is Knicks territory.
How the N.B.A. draws its territories is of great interest to Blumenthal as is the argument that blacking out home games is a way to shore up home attendance. But it's ridiculous to think that hordes of Knicks fans are trekking down 150 miles from Farmington to Madison Square Garden.
If the case gets far, it could go to the heart of how leagues protect themselves economically. David Stern, who as N.B.A. commissioner, knows a thing about economics, could resolve the situation by ordaining that this kind of blackout protects no one's interests and lets UA Cable carry Knicks and Celtics games throughout its system, regardless of territories.
Toretto suggests that a blackout be imposed when both teams are playing at home. The Celtics game would then be shown only in the designated Celtics territory and the Knicks game only in Knicks territory.
Territories. Dividing up markets. That's antitrust talk. Just the kind a league like the N.B.A. hates to hear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (86%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (86%); FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (58%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (58%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (58%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (58%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER; TELEVISION; WORLD CUP (SOCCER) SOCCER (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (75%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); TICKET SALES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



106 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS BUSINESS;
Gutkowski Is Named to Run Garden

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Robert Gutkowski, who as president of the Madison Square Garden Network engineered the landmark $500 million cable deal with the New York Yankees, was named president and chief executive of the Garden yesterday. He replaces Richard H. Evans, who resigned under pressure in August.
Gutkowski, 43 years old, who Garden insiders say navigated smoothly through a testy relationship with Evans, has been running the entertainment group of the Garden since his predecessor's departure. 
 In his new post, the management of the New York Knicks, the New York Rangers, the MSG Network, the Garden arena, the boxing operations and the newly-opened Paramount Theater will report to him.
Gutkowski's appointment comes shortly after the re-opening of the Garden, which has undergone a $200 million renovation begun by Evans. In a statement, Stanley Jaffe, the president of Paramount Communications, the Garden's parent company, called Gutkowski's appointment "the final element in the launching of a new era for Madison Square Garden."
One of Gutkowski's goals now is to prevent the kind of turmoil that has roiled the Garden in recent years, primarily in the management of the Knicks and the Rangers. But Gutkowski is also the fifth Garden chief executive in the 14 years Paramount has owned the facility, coming in a line after Evans, Jack Krumpe, Sonny Werblin and Alan Cohen.
"It's hard to guarantee anything," Gutkowski said. "But the only thing I can say is I've been involved in the network for six years and turnover has been nonexistent. My people stay around for a long time. But any organization is impacted by turmoil, the Garden no more or less than any company."
He said his immediate goals are to "take a look at the sports franchises where the product has gotten a lot better."
He added: "Continue the momentum we've got in booking acts into the Garden and the Paramount and make sure the facility is working in a good way."
 
Subscribers Grow
 During Gutkowski's six years as president of the MSG Network, the number of subscribers climbed from 1.7 million to 4.6 million, the bulk of whom came on after the 12-year deal with the Yankees was signed.
Gutkowski was criticized for lavishing $500 million on the Yankees, but he said the deal transformed the cable network into a 52-week enterprise.
"It was the only deal we could make," he said. "The Mets weren't in the market. If we cared about the longevity of the network, we had to do it."
Gutkowski is viewed as a tough but fair negotiator with a sharp eye for programming and personnel. People who work for him at the network say that he inspires considerable personal loyalty.
Bob Page, anchorman of the nightly "MSG Sportsdesk," said of his boss: "In more than three years here, I've said a lot of controversial things. While Bob objected a few times, he never called me on the carpet -- and I've criticized the Rangers and the Knicks."
 
Achieved Goals
 Chet Simmons, who as president of ESPN hired Gutkowski in 1981 as vice president of programming, and who is now co-executive producer of MSG's "Around the NFL" program, said: "Bob did what he set out to do at MSG. He wanted to upgrade the quality of the network by putting on baseball, by creating a sports news operation and covering high school sports. He's done all that."
Now Gutkowski takes his skills to the broader tableau of the entire Garden, at a time when the economic recession is continuing unabated.
"We've been impacted by it," he said. "We've been hurt. So we wonder if we can market better. Control costs better. Sign additional product. Upgrade facilities."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP; MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (83%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP; MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (83%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BASEBALL (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); BASKETBALL (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); 

PERSON: GUTKOWSKI, ROBERT; EVANS, RICHARD H; SANDOMIR, RICHARD ALAN H COHEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



107 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: Better Discipline? Train Parents, Then Children

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
FEW chores of child-rearing are more frustrating or fraught with emotional conflict than discipline. Now some researchers believe they know why: discipline is being applied to children when it should first be applied to their parents.
"Most parents lack a good grasp of what to do when there's a problem," said James Windell, a clinical psychologist in Waterford, Mich. "Their instincts aren't always useful, and when they rely on their emotions they often end up feeling guilty." 
 But new findings suggest that it may be surprisingly easy for parents to get out of ineffective disciplinary ruts. Researchers caution that beyond the importance of combining love with limits, there is no one approach that every parent should adopt. Not only do disciplinary occasions differ, but all children are different and parents cannot be convincing disciplinarians when they are using a tactic that makes them uncomfortable.
"One size doesn't fit all," said Dr. Carolyn Webster-Stratton, a nurse-practitioner and child psychologist at the University of Washington in Seattle. "Basic disciplinary principles must be tailored to each child and family."
Before parents can become effective disciplinarians, she said, they must first learn how to manage their own anger, solve problem situations and give and get support from others.
These are among recent findings suggesting that most parents can, with a little help, improve the behavior even of difficult children:
*Simple self-help techniques, with or without professional support, can help parents sharply reduce discipline problems.
*Parents who are sensitive to their children's needs have more obedient children.
*Praise and love alone are not enough to instill good behavior. Too much permissiveness hurts a child's efforts to develop self-control.
*Behavior problems should be reversed early; waiting until the preteen-age years diminishes chances for success and puts children at higher risk for drug use and other problems.
*Spanking is not only ineffective, it may erode the child's self-esteem and the parent-child relationship, leading to more problems later.
 
Learning Parental Tricks
 Studies among hundreds of families at the University of Washington School of Nursing have shown that "parents need to learn as many tricks of the trade as possible, including how to play with their children, communicate with them, praise and reward them and set limits for them, as well as how to handle misbehavior using a variety of techniques," according to Dr. Webster-Stratton, director of the Parenting Clinic there. Since 1979, she has worked with about 700 families struggling to cope with children between the ages of 4 and 8 years old who are so aggressive and disobedient that they may be unable to go to school.
In the Seattle studies, instructional videotapes showing right and wrong ways of handling behavior problems helped parents induce major improvements in their children's behavior. She said the tapes were effective regardless of parents' economic, marital or educational circumstances. Further, she said, they were a low-cost way to reach parents who might not otherwise seek professional help.
Studies of babies and toddlers directed by Dr. Everett Waters, a psychology professor at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, showed that young children were much more responsive to parental discipline if the child perceived the parent as "available, responsive, sensitive -- sensitive to the baby's signals and able to respond appropriately and in a timely manner," he explained.
 
Permissiveness as a 'Disaster'
 But the so-called permissive approach, in which parents are unconditionally warm and accepting regardless of what the child does, is "a disaster in the hands of most parents," said Dr. Gerald Patterson of Eugene, Ore. Follow-up studies of permissive parenting conducted by Dr. Diana Baumrind of the University of California at Berkeley found that the children lacked self-confidence and faced a high risk of developing antisocial behavior.
"Permissiveness alone doesn't work well because the parents, while warm and loving, do not provide enough structure or monitoring of their child's behavior," explained Dr. James H. Bray, a psychologist at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. In his eight-year study of 200 families, he found that when parents failed to set limits, "the child doesn't know when to stop and acts out more."
Dr. Susan O'Leary, a Stony Brook psychologist, has found that lax parenting is as bad as harsh parenting. Both for teachers in the classroom and for parents of 2-year-olds, the "timing, tone of voice and length of the reprimand determine its effectiveness," she said. When a child misbehaves, the reprimand should be immediate, brief and delivered firmly without yelling or pleading. "Don't touch" is better than a 60-word explanation, she said.
If maladaptive behavior is not reversed early in a child's life, studies have shown that highly aggressive and noncompliant children are at high risk for delinquent or socially deviant behavior like drug abuse when they reach their teen-age years. Dr. Patterson, an eminent researcher in the field, said intervention before the children are 9 years old "can bring the majority back into the normal range of behavior, but if you wait until ages 9 to 12, the success rate is only half as good."
Dr. Patterson and his colleagues at the Oregon Social Learning Center in Eugene found through observations of hundreds of families in their homes that "the core issue in socializing children is to teach a reasonable level of compliance between the ages of 18 months and 3 years."
He said parents were not solely to blame for their difficult children. Rather, he said, "children who fail to learn the necessary level of compliance may be temperamentally difficult to begin with and they may also have parents who lack the needed skills to cope with them or who are under a lot of stress themselves."
Classroom studies by Dr. Irwin A. Hyman, a school psychologist at Temple University in Philadelphia, strongly suggest that a more rational, democratic approach that teaches children to behave in certain ways because it is the right thing to do is more effective at instilling internal controls than is an authoritarian approach based on fear of retribution. In his studies, he said, "when the teacher left the room, the kids with the authoritarian teachers went crazy, but the kids with the more democratic teachers were as good as when the teachers were present."
Dr. Robert Wahler, a psychologist at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville who works with children aged 2 to 11, said a "subdued" approach to discipline was crucial. "Good discipline is not effective because it hurts but because it transfers control from the child to the parent," he said. "High-intensity discipline promotes a counterresponse from the child. Discipline should be administered in as businesslike a manner as possible."
 
Importance of Consistency
 All researchers who study discipline seem to agree, as Dr. Rex Forehand put it, that "consistency is key" to effective discipline. Dr. Forehand, a psychologist at the University of Georgia in Athens who has studied working-class families with noncompliant young children, said: "Parents must have rules and limits and the children must know the consequences for breaking them. If the rules are not clear or consistently enforced, the child feels the need to test them, to find out what the limits are today."
Dr. Mark W. Roberts, supervisor of the psychology clinic at Idaho State University, agrees that consistent discipline is the most important element in promoting behavioral improvements in disobedient children. But in his studies of about 300 disobedient children over the last 15 years, he also found that "discipline alone is not a sufficient treatment for disruptive children." He said parents must also learn to become more responsive to their child's questions and requests and must give the child more unconditional praise.
 
Harmful Effects of Spanking
 The new research also demonstrates that spanking, which remains parents' main disciplinary weapon, is not only useless in the long run but also potentially hurtful to the child's emerging personality. In experimental studies with toddlers placed in a room with their mothers and breakable objects they were told not to touch, the children who were frequently spanked were less obedient than the children who were disciplined in nonphysical ways.
As adults, Dr. Hyman said, those who were frequently harshly punished as children were more likely to be depressed and suffer from low self-esteem.
"All the evidence suggests that frequent spanking is the cause, not the result, of disobedience and mental illness, said Dr. Hyman, who builds a case against corporal punishment in schools in his book, "Reading, Writing and the Hickory Stick" (Lexington Books, $18.95). "The problem starts early with parents who fail to understand normal child development and spank infants and toddlers when they act naturally, for example, when they grab things off the table."
It has long been known that frequent spanking, yelling or threatening noncompliant children with harsh punishments can foster misbehavior. Mr. Windell, who works with children whose parents consider them out of control, said even negative consequences like getting spanked can reinforce a child's bad behavior because someone is reacting to it in a highly dramatic way.
In some families misbehaving is the only way the child gets his parents' undivided attention. But by pitting parent against child, harsh punishments often accentuate the battle of wills and prompt the child to see how far he can go before his parents will react, said Mr. Windell, who wrote "Discipline, A Sourcebook of 50 Failsafe Techniques for Parents," just published by Collier($9.95).
In addition to teaching children that physical aggression is an acceptable response when a person is angry or frustrated, "corporal punishment doesn't show the child an effective alternative way to behave," said Dr. Darwin Dorr, a psychologist at Highland Hospital in Asheville, N.C., who conducts workshops on discipline.

	--------------------	 	 Tomorrow: the Personal Health column examines disciplinary techniques.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (90%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: YOUTH RESEARCH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; RESEARCH EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); PARENTING (90%); PARENTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



108 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Sea Floor Holds Story Of Hawaiian Isles' Doom

BYLINE: By WALTER SULLIVAN

DATELINE: HONOLULU

 BODY:
OCEANOGRAPHIC surveys are throwing dramatic new light on the cataclysmic landslides that lopped off a large part of the Hawaiian island of Oahu and may one day strike the chain's big island, Hawaii.
Oahu's lost half has been missing for some time, probably a million years or more, but only recently have the missing pieces been located. The new oceanographic surveys have mapped in greater detail the massive fields of avalanche debris. Some of the fragments are gigantic blocks measuring 10 miles on a side. 
 New land observations also suggest that as a large part of the island plunged into the sea, a titanic ocean wave swelled up against the neighboring island of Lanai, reaching a height of 2,300 feet.
The new findings paint a more detailed picture of the process in which the lava that built the islands fell away in cataclysmic avalanches even as the islands themselves were on the rise. The result of this process is Hawaii's remarkably beautiful steep-cliffed landscape.
The islands of the Hawaiian chain are the tops of great mountains that rise as much as 29,000 feet from the sea floor.
Oahu was born four million years ago as two giant volcanoes. The remnants of one form the Waianae Range at the island's west end. Remnants of the other, the Koolau Range, rise gently behind Honolulu and Waikiki. They end in a mighty cliff, the Nuuanu Pali. The cliff, now a major tourist attraction, marks where much of the island fell away.
The Pali is the remaining edge of the giant basin, or caldera, formed by the volcano. At its base is the town of Kaneohe, and beyond that, open ocean. The other half of the caldera, an area the size of Brooklyn, tor away and tumbled into the ocean abyss. In that event, according to measurements taken by a new survey, it appears that 1,800 cubic miles of rock cascaded into the sea. The underwater debris field left by the avalanche reaches more than 140 miles from the island and covers more than 9,000 square miles. Over all, sea-floor debris from avalanches and slumps in the Hawaiian islands covers more than five times the area of the islands themselves.
The Oahu landslide happened a million or more years ago, but the forces of change are still at work in the Hawaiian island chain. Earthquake analysis indicates that Hawaii, the largest and only volcanically active island in the chain, is gradually splitting apart along a rift extending east from Kilauea volcano.
Geologists believe the cause of the splitting is lava that pushes into the rift and spurts onto the surface. Hawaii, at the southeast end of the chain, was formed by huge volcanic eruptions fueled by a "hot spot" in the earth's deep interior from which molten magma penetrates the ocean floor. The older islands in the chain were formed by the same hot spot, but have been carried past it by the motion of the Pacific sea floor, which creeps northwest across the hot spot at the rate of a few centimeters a year.
The island of Hawaii began to form some 800,000 years ago from the eruptions of giant volcanoes, of which Kilauea is the most active. Flows of lava from the volcanoes have heaped atop sediments that built up ages before on the sea bottom. Analysis of an earthquake that occurred in June 1989 indicates that the east side of Kilauea is slipping seaward, lubricated by the buried sediments, six miles below, on which the bottom of the volcano rests.
Studies of the underwater debris fields tell much about the islands' geological past and future. The current surveys are being carried out as part of the effort by the United States to map its entire exclusive economic zone, extending 200 nautical miles off all its shores. Recent findings, analyzed by Dr. James G. Moore, a specialist in Hawaiian volcanism, and five colleagues at the United States Geological Survey, have been published in The Journal of Geophysical Research.
Preliminary results have come from a British sonar system known as Gloria, and surveys now under way by American researchers. Gloria can map a 60-mile-wide swath of sea floor on a single pass. It was towed behind the British research vessel Farnella, which docked a few weeks ago in Honolulu. The survey was jointly sponsored by the Institute of Oceanographic Sciences in Britain and the United States Geological Survey.
 
A 2,300-Foot Wave
 The Americans are concentrating on recent landslides from the island of Hawaii, using multibeam sonars that can map the bottom more precisely than the Gloria system. This has produced a perspective diagram of one slide from the west coast of Hawaii and a survey of another that has slipped into the sea from Kilauea.
Geologists have identified two distinct processes whereby the Hawaiian Islands have shed land: slow slumping and catastrophic landslides. The Nuuanu landslide that swept away the northeast side of Oahu is thought to have been of the later type.
So great was its momentum that it crossed the Hawaiian Deep, 15,000 feet below sea level and moved up the slope beyond to 1,000 feet above the deep. The Hawaiian Deep is sea floor depressed by the enormous weight of the volcanoes.
Nearer shore is a giant amphitheater, now submerged, but presumably above water when the slide occurred. The island, as it aged and moved away from the "hot spot," has sunk 1,000 feet.
That the avalanche was sudden and swift has been inferred from the immense blocks of debris showing in the sonar. According to Dr. Barry Raleigh, dean of the School of Ocean and Earth Science Technology at the University of Hawaii, the resulting wave swept to an elevation of 2,300 feet on nearby Lanai island, swamping 95 percent of its surface and depositing coral high on its slopes.
He and Dr. Moore hope that, by dating this coral and by drilling down to coral beneath the debris slide, it should be possible to learn when the avalanche occurred.
Traces of great avalanches have been found on both sides of Oahu as well as alongside all the other islands. Avalanches are at present prone to occur along the steep sides of Loihi, the submerged volcano southeast of Hawaii that should eventually form a new island.
 
Critical but Irregular Events
 Debate about the possibility of large Hawaiian landslides dates at least from 1890, when James Dwight Dana, a leading 19th century geologist, proposed that such immense cliffs as the Nuuanu Pali of Oahu, the Napali Coast of Kauai and northern Molokai were produced by fracturing and "downdrop" of the seaward side beneath the sea.
But Dr. Moore and his colleagues said that only now has the extent of such processes been shown.
Discovery of evidence for such dramatic events further discredits doctrinaire uniformitarianism -- the belief that all phenomena that have shaped the earth are currently active. Other examples of critical but irregular events include asteroid impacts such as the one that probably created the moon, or the periodic shedding of Mount Rainier's ice into Puget Sound.
As each island of the Hawaiian chain is pared down by landslides and sinks deeper into the sea, new islands should arise to the southeast, as is the case now with Loihi. That this process has been going on for tens of millions of years is evident from the islands and atolls that extend far to the northwest. Because motion of the Pacific floor changed direction some 30 million years ago, the chain then bends north, becoming the Emperor Seamounts that extend almost to the northwest corner of the ocean.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hawaiian island of Oahu was born four million years ago as two giant volcanoes. The remnants of one is this cliff, the Nuuanu Pali, now a major tourist attraction. The rest of the caldera of the volcano, an area the size of Brooklyn, has torn away and tumbled into the ocean abyss. (Photo Resource Hawaii/Marc Schechter) (pg. C10)
 
Diagram: "Oahu Shaped By Giant Slide"
 About a million years ago, long before Polynesians arrived, the northern side of Oahu's giant Koolau volcano slid to sea, spreading debris as much as 140 miles offshore. A great cliff, the Nuuano Pali, is all that remains of the volcano. The south-facing slope in back of the cliff is the site of Honolulu suburbs.
 
Giant Blocks of Evidence
 Mapping by sonar has shown blocks of debris 10 miles on a side. The total volume is estimated at 1,800 cubic miles, covering 9,000 square miles of ocean floor. Another great landslide slid southwest into the sea from the Waianae Volcano on Oahu's west side.
 
Enormous Ocean Wave
 So swift and massive was the avalanche as it plunged into the sea that it caused a wave that deposited coral 2,3oo feet above sea level on the nearby island of Lanai.
 Lava eruption helped split the island.
Land lost in avalanche.
 Fragments and debris from avalanche (Source: James G. Moore) (pg. C1)
 
Map of Hawaii highlighting submarine landslide areas (Source:Journal of Geophysical Research) (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (99%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII UNITED STATES (99%); HAWAII, USA (99%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AVALANCHES AND LANDSLIDES; VOLCANOES OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); OCEANS (89%); LANDSLIDES (89%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (88%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MOUNTAINS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, WALTER

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



109 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON WAITS FOR BUSH DECISION ON CHIEF OF STAFF

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
President Bush met with John H. Sununu on Sunday to discuss the chief of staff's future and other issues as the President edged closer to decisions on his 1992 campaign staff and a possible shake-up of White House aides, White House advisers said today.
The meeting heightened the sense of expectation today among Washington Republicans. It was one of several gatherings over the weekend, including a discussion on Saturday at Camp David between Mr. Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, his closest friend, and a session at the White House on Sunday night between the President and Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner, a longtime associate of Mr. Bush who is widely regarded as the leading candidate to replace Mr. Sununu. 
 Republican strategists and Administration officials said none of these sessions were conclusive, in the sense that Mr. Bush did not tell Mr. Sununu, Mr. Baker or Mr. Skinner his final decision. Several Republican strategists, a ranking Republican Senator and a member of the Bush Cabinet said Mr. Bush had not made a decision, but they said they expected him to do so this week.
 
'Wobbling' on Sununu
 The Senator said Mr. Bush was "wobbling all over the place" about Mr. Sununu. But after weeks of pressure on the chief of staff, his position was insecure enough that the Senator said there was a "serious" possibility Mr. Sununu would lose his job. "His chances of survival are not better than 50-50," he said.
Mr. Bush has been under pressure from some of his Cabinet members and political associates to remove Mr. Sununu, because of several missteps on domestic policy that have contributed to Mr. Bush's current slump in public opinion polls and because of an abrasive style that many Republicans say makes it difficult to assemble a campaign staff around Mr. Sununu.
During the weekend, Mr. Bush and his son, George W. Bush, who has been a political adviser to his father for years, "talked to everybody" in the President's political circles, a senior official said.
The Washington Post reported in Tuesday's issue that the younger Mr. Bush had told Mr. Sununu on Wednesday that he had alienated members of the Cabinet and White House staff, hurting his effectiveness. A source was reported as saying that the message was meant to be taken as a suggestion that Mr. Sununu offer to resign.
Mr. Bush talked to Mr. Baker at Camp David on Saturday after the Secretary, who has been the President's primary political counselor, brought his grandchildren to the Maryland retreat for a weekend visit.
After meeting with Mr. Sununu in Washington on Sunday, Mr. Bush dined in his private residence with Mr. Skinner, who has made no secret of his desire to serve as chief of staff and is a favorite among many Republicans. A senior official said today that Mr. Bush did not offer the White House post to Mr. Skinner, who has been involved in Mr. Bush's campaigns since 1980 and has become a troubleshooter for the President as a member of the Cabinet.
Few details of the President's discussions were known, and each of the three officials could have had routine reasons for meeting with Mr. Bush related to their Government posts.
 
A Charged Atmosphere
 But the sessions took on new significance in the highly charged atmosphere of the White House as Mr. Bush returned from the holiday to prepare for the second in a series of domestic damage-control trips, this one to Mississippi and Florida on Tuesday.
The weekend sessions suggested that the pace of the President's decision-making had accelerated, and that, in turn, heightened the sense of expectation and urgency among Republican professionals and Administration officials who were searching for the slightest harbingers of Mr. Bush's thinking.
The President made no public statements about the campaign team today and White House advisers said the President had not notified any of the half-dozen associates waiting for word on their 1992 jobs. These include Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher, who is widely expected to be named campaign chairman; Robert Teeter, Mr. Bush's poll taker; Frederic V. Malek, a longtime political adviser, and Charles Black, a Republican political consultant.
"The whole town is waiting for the other shoe to drop," said a White House adviser.
 
'Nothing's Changed'
 Asked at the daily White House briefing about Mr. Sununu, Marlin Fitzwater, Mr. Bush's spokesman, answered almost as if by rote: "Sununu is chief of staff. He's been on the job for three and a half years. We expect him to stay. The President has full confidence in him. Nothing's changed."
In another sign that Mr. Bush is moving to establish his campaign organization, even though he has yet to announce his candidacy for re-election, Mr. Fitzwater acknowledged that Mr. Bush had asked Gov. Judd Gregg of New Hampshire to oversee his campaign efforts in that state's primary next February, which is the first of the election season.
That seemed to rule out one theory popular among Administration officials and party strategists: that Mr. Bush could ease Mr. Sununu out of the White House by sending him to his home state, where he was credited with helping Mr. Bush win the 1988 Republican Presidential primary, to prepare for the 1992 primary.
In the view of many Repubican leaders, the possibility of right-wing challenges in New Hampshire from Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator, and from State Representative David Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader who lost a race for Governor of Louisiana last month, have increased the urgency for Mr. Bush to assemble his campaign team.
Apart from removing Mr. Sununu outright, some Republican strategists have suggested that Mr. Bush could reduce his influence over the campaign by naming a strong re-election team with direct access to the Oval Office.
 
Blaming the Chief of Staff
 As his political problems have multiplied, Mr. Sununu has become the focus of criticism of Mr. Bush's domestic policies, particularly his refusal to take drastic action that might spur economic growth or, at least, persuade voters that the President is trying to do something.
Mr. Bush acknowledged these pressures today during a picture-taking session. "Many Americans want to know what their Government is doing right now to get the economy moving again," he said, adding that he was "directing the Cabinet to assure the most effective implementation of existing programs: job placement, job training, unemployment benefits programs, safety net programs, small business loans."
But Mr. Bush's order seemed largely a public relations gesture. Mr. Fitzwater later said there would be no additional expenditures on any programs the President mentioned.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John H. Sununu (The New York Times) (pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SUNUNU, JOHN H; SKINNER, SAMUEL K (SEC); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN SUNUNU (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



110 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: BAKER WILL VISIT UKRAINE TO DISCUSS NUCLEAR QUESTION

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
On the heels of Ukraine's landslide vote for independence, President Bush ordered Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d today to visit Kiev this month to discuss American concerns about the control of nuclear weapons on Ukrainian territory.
The announcement came as the White House officially welcomed the Sunday vote as "a striking testimony to the will for liberty" and indicated again that it would grant full diplomatic recognition to the new nation in due course. 
 The White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said that Mr. Bush had discussed Mr. Baker's visit, which will include a stop in Moscow, with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and that the Presidents agreed on the need for a practical approach to Ukraine's action, which Mr. Gorbachev has opposed.
 
Whittling Gorbachev's Power
 But today's White House actions seemed only to underscore Mr. Gorbachev's diminishing importance in an American policy on the Soviet Union, which has shifted in recent weeks away from the Kremlin and toward the fractious republics. The decision to send Mr. Baker to Kiev to talk about nuclear weapons undercuts Mr. Gorbachev's role as the primary Soviet leader responsible for arms issues, one of the few clear responsibilities he has maintained since the failed coup in August.
Mr. Baker will be preceded to Kiev by an Assistant Secretary of State, Thomas M. T. Niles, who will travel there for meetings this week. Both envoys will discuss the nuclear issue, Ukraine's obligation to honor international treaties signed by Moscow, and its role in salvaging the crumbling Soviet economy, the White House said in a prepared statement.
Of the three, the question of who will control nuclear weapons is by far the most urgent. It has driven an effective reversal of American policy since the summer, when President Bush urged Ukrainians, in a major speech in Kiev on Aug. 1, to retain their political and military ties to the old Soviet center.
 
Road to Nuclear-Free Ukraine
 Mr. Fitzwater said Mr. Baker would discuss with Leonid M. Kravchuk, the Ukrainian leader, "how we might help in terms of eliminating nuclear weapons" on Ukrainian soil.
Ukraine's leaders have pledged to create a nuclear-free state. But they simultaneously laid claim this summer to the estimated 176 ballistic missiles and 1,000 or so Soviet nuclear warheads still on their soil, arguing that their control cannot be left solely to a Moscow Government that they despise and mistrust.
When Ukraine said this summer that it planned to create its own 450,000-man military, supplanting the Soviet Army controlled by Moscow, President Boris N. Yeltsin of the Russian federated republic confronted President Kravchuk, demanding that all nuclear weapons be returned to Russian soil.
Mr. Kravchuk refused, and the two nations later signed a temporary military and economic agreement that put off the question of nuclear control.
In Kiev today, Mr. Kravchuk said he hoped to create a collective military command of nuclear weapons with Russia, Byelorussia and Kazakhstan, the other three former Soviet republics with nuclear forces.
Mr. Fitzwater said today that Mr. Baker and Mr. Niles would raise with Ukrainian leaders their obligation to adhere to arms-control accords and their need to control the spread of "dangerous military-related technology" to developing nations.
An Administration Soviet expert characterized Ukraine today as sharing Washington's desire to control nuclear arms, adding: "I think all the parties -- Gorbachev, Yeltsin, Kravchuk, the allies -- are agreed that we have to work this one out."
 
Cashing in Chips
 Some outside analysts have speculated that Kiev wants to use nuclear weapons as a bargaining chip in negotiating the terms of its relations with Moscow and the West.
With Ukrainian sovereignty a foregone conclusion, "we're trying to be both constructive and practical," said an Administration Soviet expert, "constructive in that we don't want to accelerate the decentralization process, and practical in that we have to keep talking to the republics on these issues."
While questions of economic integration and treaty obligations are important indicators of future American relations with the republics, "the nuclear issue, for Ukraine, is obviously of critical importance."
The United States is also concerned about the security of Soviet nuclear reactors, which contain nuclear materials that could be stolen or sold to terrorists or developing nations, and also pose potential environmental threats.
 
Recognition Not Immediate
 The 1985 nuclear accident at Chernobyl, which many analysts say played a role in the chain of events that led to the Soviet breakup, occurred in Ukraine, not far from Kiev, the capital.
Mr. Baker will discuss that and other Ukrainian matters with the governments of Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Gorbachev during a stop in Moscow. Mr. Niles will go immediately to Kiev for talks with Mr. Kravchuk about future relations with Washington..
The United States is unlikely to recognize Ukrainian sovereignty until after Mr. Baker's trip, Mr. Fitzwater said, but he left little doubt that full recognition will eventually take place.
"The United States welcomes this expression of democracy which is a tribute to the spirit of the Ukrainian people," Mr. Fitzwater said in a prepared statement. "Ukraine's aspiration to join the Euroatlantic community is striking testimony to the will for liberty in a nation which has persisted and survived despite the terrible calamities of the 20th century."
In a single phrase in his four-page statement, Mr. Fitzwater said that the White House remains committed to dealing with Mr. Gorbachev, on unspecified matters. They include the Soviet military, the disposition of the Soviet foreign debt and Mr. Gorbachev's dimming hopes that the remaining 12 republics will join in a single economic union.
 
Another Policy Shift
 But by sending Mr. Baker to talk directly to Mr. Kravchuk about nuclear weapons, the White House has moved from the Kremlin to the republics another critical item on the foreign-policy agenda.
Mr. Fitzwater acknowledged that the United States has no choice now but to adapt its own policies to the rising independence movement in the Soviet republics, a movement Mr. Bush personally sought to dampen in his much-noted speech on Aug. 1, less than three weeks before the coup that speeded the disintegration of the Soviet Union.
"One cannot deny the changes that have already taken place and the process of transformation that's under way," he said.
Mr. Fitzwater said that President Bush discussed American policy toward Ukraine in telephone calls on Saturday with Mr. Gorbachev and Canada's prime minister, Brian Mulroney. "All three leaders view this matter much as the United States does, which is to say they want to provide constructive and realistic approaches to the changes going on there," he said.
Soviet news services reported that Mr. Gorbachev told Mr. Bush that while Ukrainian independence may be unavoidable, Kiev's refusal to join an alliance of the former Soviet states would be a "catastrophe."
Mr. Fitzwater and other officials today stressed the United States' interest in promoting friendly relations between the Ukrainian leadership and Mr. Yeltsin's Russian government, which are divided by nationalistic impulses, but still lashed together by economic and military ties.
Beyond their disputes over military matters, Russia and Ukraine have argued lately over their shared borders and over Ukraine's determination to create a separate monetary system.
The ability of Russia and Ukraine to work together in openness and mutual respect "will be a test of whether they are capable of making the transition to democratic societies which respect the rights of individuals," Mr. Fitzwater said. "We hope and believe that the leaders in Moscow and Kiev will establish such a relationship."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said that the Bush administration was heading toward full diplomatic recognition of Ukraine. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UKRAINE (USSR); UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UKRAINE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); COUPS (72%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); NILES, THOMAS M T (ASST SEC); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



111 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-17
 
BUSH SENDING BAKER TO UKRAINE
 Moving on the heels of Ukraine's landslide vote for independence, President Bush ordered Secretary of State Baker to visit Kiev this month to discuss American concerns about the control of nuclear weapons. A1
 
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE ELECTED
 Leonid M. Kravchuk was pronounced the winner of Ukraine's first presidential election, and his republic's popularly endorsed independence received swift recognition from the Russian republic. A1
 
Man in the News: Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. A10
 
U.S.-JAPAN TENSIONS RISING
 Fifty years after the attack on Pearl Harbor, the United States and Japan are being forced to redefine their ties -- especially the tradition of Washington providing security while Tokyo tends to business. A1
 
HOSTAGE CICIPPIO IS RELEASED
 Joseph J. Cicippio, looking thin and haggard and smiling only weakly, was released to American officials in Damascus after more than five years in captivity in Lebanon. A14
 
Members of Mr. Cicippio's family gathered at a brother's house. A14
 
What the Lebanese kidnappers want for the rest of the hostages. A14
 
U.S. HOPES MIDEAST TALKS GO ON
 Senior American officials expressed confidence that peace talks between Israel and its Arab neighbors would reopen by next week, although Israel said it would boycott the session scheduled for Wednesday. A3
 
The European Community may impose sanctions on Libya. A7
 
KENYA TO ALLOW MULTIPLE PARTIES
 Bending to pressures at home and abroad, President Daniel arap Moi decided to allow multiparty politics in Kenya, his party said. A3
 
HAITIAN REFUGEE CAMP TO EXPAND
 With more than 6,300 Haitian refugees now in American custody, the Navy is expanding its emergency center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to accommodate as many as 10,000 new arrivals. A6
 
European monitors blamed Yugoslavia's army for the growing war. A8
 
Peru has issued tough emergency decrees to combat terrorism. A17
 
Shanghai Journal: Rents are to rise under a housing reform plan. A4
 
National A18-21, B10
 
COMING, AND GOING?
 A series of White House meetings heightened the sense of expectation among Republicans in Washington that a shakeup of Presidential aides may be near. A1
 
SMITH'S PAST IS OFF LIMITS
 The rape trial of William K. Smith began in West Palm Beach after the judge prohibited testimony from three women who have asserted that Mr. Smith sexually assaulted them years ago. A18
 
FEELING THE ECONOMIC HAMMER
 In the small town of Wales, Mass., little remains of the state's economic miracle of the 80's. Five of the town's seven elementary school teachers have just been dismissed, creating classes of 70 students each. A18
 
A MECCA RECONSIDERS
 Stung by recession and a budget crisis, Californians are debating a once taboo topic: whether the state's golden door to immigrants should be closed a little. A20
 
DEATH PENALTY REVISITED
 The Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal by a convicted murdered on Virginia's death row, but in doing so revealed what may be an unexpected rift among Justices. B10
 
HEALTH PANEL STYMIED
 A Presidential advisory panel was unable to agree on a plan to overhaul the nation's health-care system, but offered two proposals that would benefit children. B10
 
PRIEST TO QUIT UNDER FIRE
 A priest who is a former provost of the the University of Notre Dame agreed to resign his teaching post at the university amid accusations of sexual misconduct. A20
 
A vaunted team joined the Clinton Presidential campaign. A21
 
Federal agents seized nearly 12 tons of cocaine. A20
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
PRIVATE HOSPITAL BALKS
 Long Island Jewish Hospital says it will no longer provide the doctors who staff a public hospital in Queens in a dispute over the future management and direction of New York City's public hospitals. A1
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Science Times C1-13
 
ROCKEFELLER U. CHIEF RESIGNS
 Dr. David Baltimore said today he would resign as president of Rockefeller University after an 18-month tenure dogged by controversy over his role in a fraud case. A1
 
How volcanoes and avalanches shaped the Hawaiian islands. C1
 
A dog named Gregor Mendel, father of the dog genome project. C1
 
Scientists reaching new consensus on effective child discipline. C1
 
Flu vaccine shortage shows monitoring gaps. C3
 
Patagonian environmental woes reflected in penguin deaths. C4
 
Personal Computers. C13
 
Peripherals. C11
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-18
 
Oscar fever in Hollywood. C15
 
Lincoln Center to the rescue of the art film. C15
 
Kirov director says dancers lied about being locked up. C17
 
Bill to ease artist-visa curbs. C17
 
Marxism Today is folding, a victim of its name. C18
 
Music: A Carter concerto. C15
 
Dance: New work by Muller. C15
 
Word and Image: "The Mozart Myths." C18
 
"Wildflower," on Lifetime. C18
Obituaries B12
 
George Stigler, Nobel Prize winning economist
 
Jan Papanek, member of postwar government of Czechoslovakia
 
Charles D. Breitel, former Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals
 
Sports B14-19
 
METS SIGN BONILLA
 The Mets made Bobby Bonilla the highest paid player in team sports, giving the free-agent outfielder a five-year contract worth $29 million. In obtaining Bonilla, the Mets outbid the California Angels, Philadelphia Phillies and Chicago White Sox. A1
 
 Football: Jets stay upbeat. B19
 
Basketball: Knicks defeat Hornets. B15
 
Connecticut beats Wake Forest. B16
 
Shackleford on the rebound. B16
 
Columns: Berkow on Handley. B15
 
TV Sports. B18
 
Olympics: East German use of steroids admitted B15
 
Tennis: Dreamy Davis Cup for France. B17
 
Fashion Page B13
 
Pants, for an era of vacillating hems.
 
Patterns.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials A22
 
Hostages and haste.
Conversations about dying.
Connecticut's tax brawl.
Topics: Bush's closed doors.
 
Letters A22
 
A. M. Rosenthal: A Haitian father. A23
Russell Baker: Bush-bashing shunned. A23
Naomi Flink Zucker, Norman L. Zucker: Haitians and safe haven. A23
Stetson Kennedy: Florida's Christmas murders. A23

GRAPHIC: Photo: California's Governor wants to shut the gate. A20 (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (83%); 

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KENYA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HAITI (92%); JAPAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); CUBA (86%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (91%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (51%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KENYA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HAITI (92%); JAPAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); CUBA (86%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (91%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); REFUGEES (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ARMIES (77%); TERRORISM (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (62%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (60%); BUDGETS (60%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



112 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
A Haitian Father

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Almost always now, when I read about Haitians who risk the seas to get to this country but wind up on distant shores behind barbed wire, I think of an illegal immigrant I happened to know myself, and of his daughters and his son.
Then a shiver of shame and embarrassment goes through me, for a particular and large group of Americans. 
 This fellow I am talking about needed work to help support his wife and six children. He was living at the time in Canada, where he had once found the outdoor work he loved -- farming, laying track, traveling to the far country to trade. But work dried up in Canada, so he took the night train from Toronto to New York.
There he found employment as a house painter, which he hated. But he was an excellent painter as he had been an excellent farmer and fur trader. One day he fell off the scaffold; he died.
This man, who was known as Harry, never told his children exactly how he managed to cross the border. After Harry died, immigration authorities could never discover any record of his entry, or of his son's, who was also on that train from Toronto. They both were declared illegals -- night-train wetbacks.
But in the meantime Harry's daughters and son had grown up in the United States. Always Harry, his wife and his children blessed America. Many years later, when his children told the story of their father and his determination to find work in America, to hell with borders, people smiled in admiration of this man. And always, his children were filled with pride about him, and gratitude.
So of course when I read about the Haitians I think of my father, Harry, the illegal who came in search of work. Of course, Harry never went through the hells of the Haitians. He had left Russia for Canada, sick of the stench of czarism and longing for the clean air of political and religious liberty. But when he left Canada he was not in fear of being shot in the streets, as are the Haitians. He was just looking for work, which means not only bread but self-respect. But I know that if he had been born in Haiti or lived there, he would have broken every law that stood between him and work in the U.S. But where are Harry's children now?
Where are all the American Jews, and Poles, and Irish, and Balts, and Italians who can remember a parent or a grandparent who came to this country looking for work, when visas were bought by steamship agents, or who borrowed a cousin's papers, or who just took a night train from someplace to someplace?
Don't they ever feel like getting on their knees and thanking God that at least their folks never had to crawl into stinking, pitching boats out of fear and hunger?
American Jewish organizations are proud that their money helped Ethiopian Jews get to Israel, and Irish-American groups rally round the thousands of illegal Irish immigrants. The Eastern Europeans of America struggled to get to America's grace, and for their parents' homelands to be free of Communism. Does not one of these organizations understand their causes would be stronger and cleaner if they could manage, in their sympathy for refugees and work-hunters, to cross religious, national and color lines?
Forget about blaming the White House and the bureaucrats. Blame ourselves, children of Harry. Imagine what a quick pickup lobby, or parade, demanding succor for Haitians could do if it were headed by a few Irish-American Cardinals, a batch of rabbis and the presidents of Eastern European, Greek, Italian, Arab and Turkish organizations. American blacks and wasps welcome, too!
We are told, be reasonable, America can't open its doors to economic refugees. Pull up the gangplank, Jack, I'm aboard. Maybe, but the Pakistanis, who have barely a half-penny to our dollar, give refuge to millions of Afghans and Washington scolds Hong Kong and Britain for not accepting the Vietnamese refugees.
But even reluctantly recognizing some economic limitations, this country should have the moral elegance to accept neighbors who flee countries where life is terror and hunger, and are run by murderous gangs left over from dictatorships we ourselves maintained and cosseted.
If that were a qualification for entry into our golden land, the Haitians should be welcomed with song, embrace and memories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (96%); CANADA (94%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (96%); CANADA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRAINS (90%); REFUGEES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (61%); RELIGION (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991



113 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: MARKET PLACE;
A Likely Tax Bill Provision That Would Aid Takeovers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The tax fight of 1992 in Congress is likely to focus on whose taxes should be cut to spur the economy. But if any tax bill passes, it appears likely that it will include an obscure provision that would greatly improve the tax advantages of many corporate takeovers.
"It would be a huge boon," said Bob Chapman, a vice president of arbitrage at County NatWest Securities. "I would say you would see a billion-dollar deal announced in weeks if it goes through." 
 The proposal would for the first time allow companies to amortize, and therefore take deductions on their tax returns, for good will stemming from an acquisition of another company. That good will can amount to billions of dollars in some deals.
In recent years, the trend of tax legislation has been against corporate takeovers. But this proposal -- made by Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and endorsed by the Bush Administration -- is being pushed not as a way to promote takeovers but as a way of simplifying the tax code and reducing litigation.
But to many on Wall Street, it is being viewed as a way to increase takeover activity, especially in the food industry. "The takeover values of food companies would go up 20 percent overnight," Mr. Chapman said.
Some are more cautious, however. Robert Willens, an accounting analyst at Lehman Brothers, said the change, if it took effect, was more likely to spur purchases of subsidiaries than of whole companies, because of differing tax treatments that would not be changed. He added that while it would make companies in some industries more attractive as acquisition candidates, others would be less attractive, among them cable television and computer software.
So great is the potential impact that Mr. Rostenkowski said last week that he had heard that some transactions were being delayed in hopes of better tax treatment. He pushed through the House a resolution saying that if the proposal was passed, it would be made retroactive to July 25, the day it was introduced.
Under current tax law, the tax advantages of tangible assets, like buildings and machines, are clear and easily ascertained. But the status of intangible assets is much less clear, and subject to what sometimes seems like endless litigation. Mr. Rostenkowski's proposal, H.R. 3035, would go a long way toward simplifying the law by making most intangible assets subject to common treatment.
In assessing the tax treatment of a takeover, the acquiring company first values the tangible assets being acquired. That can be a contentious issue, but it is relatively straightforward. The tangible assets will be depreciated over a set number of years, providing tax deductions for the company. If the purchase price of the company is no more than the net value of the tangible assets, then there is nothing more to do.
But that is rarely the case. Normally, the price paid in a takeover is much higher than that amount, meaning that intangible assets have also been acquired. The Internal Revenue Service will normally claim that as much of those intangible assets as possible are good will, or the going concern value of the company. Such assets can never be depreciated and thus provide no tax benefits.
As a result, companies spend huge sums trying to persuade the I.R.S. and the courts that the intangible assets fall into a category that can be depreciated, and over as short a period as possible. Fred T. Goldberg Jr., the I.R.S. Commissioner, said that the I.R.S. had counted 159 different types of intangible assets that companies had identified and that the list was probably not complete. The list includes everything from non-union status to trade names to recipes.
"Millions of hours and dollars are consumed each year by the American public analyzing hopelessly conflicting case law, performing intricate valuations and defending challenges to their conclusions," he said in endorsing H.R. 3035.
That bill would provide that nearly all intangible assets, including good will, could be written off over 14 years after the acquisition. The principal exclusion would be government contracts that are expected to be renewed in perpetuity, thus providing bad news for cable television companies.
Another exclusion would be professional sports franchises, a move that would likely depress valuations of teams that already seem to have peaked and headed lower. The 14-year period was chosen in an effort to assure that the net effect is not to raise or lower tax receipts.
If the bill passes, the winners will be those companies that have done poorly under the current law in persuading the courts that they have depreciable intangible assets. Food companies are high on that list, which is why Mr. Chapman is especially enthusiastic about that industry. The losers will be industries like computer software that have established tax treatment of intangible assets allowing write-offs over shorter periods.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAKEOVERS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); ACQUISITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); LITIGATION (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



114 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Goodrich Is Shutting 3 Vinyl Resin Plants

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The B. F. Goodrich Company, citing adverse economic conditions, said yesterday that it planned to shut three plants that make vinyl resin, resulting in the layoffs of about 225 workers and a $117.8 million pretax charge against fourth-quarter earnings.
Goodrich, a leading producer of plastics and specialty chemicals, said the shutdowns would occur over the next two years. 
 The charge in the current quarter would reduce earnings after taxes by $77.9 million, or $3.07 a share, the company said. Goodrich earned $14.1 million, or 47 cents a share, in the fourth quarter a year ago.
Goodrich, based in Akron, Ohio, has been hurt this year because of declining sales of its vinyl products, which are used in manufacturing everything from construction materials to appliances. The layoffs and closings will affect operations in Ohio, Illinois and Louisiana. The company will continue to operate five other vinyl resin plants.
In a statement, Goodrich said the closings were necessary because the cost of operating the plants was too high. At the same time, demand for resin fell because of the slowdown in the economy.
"This is a key step in implementing our strategy of making the Goen Vinyl division a more stable and consistent source of earnings," said John D. Ong, the company's chairman. "By focusing on our most competetive vinyl resin operations and eliminating the ongoing expense of maintaining our high-cost facilities, we will increase the return on investment in this business."
Analysts praised the company's decision, saying that it would enable the company's financial performance to improve. They also said that other producers of vinyl resins were taking similar actions.
On the New York Stock Exchange, Goodrich's shares rose 62.5 cents yesterday, closing at $39.25.
The company said that the vinyl resin production lines being shut represented about 25 percent of Goodrich's resin manufacturing capacity in North America. Goodrich added that production costs at the three plants was about 40 percent higher than at the remaining operations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GR (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (93%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODRICH, B F, CO GOODRICH CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOODRICH, B F, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OHIO, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS (LABOR) RESINS (93%); RESIN MFG (91%); PLASTICS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RESINS MARKETS (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PLANT CAPACITY (73%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P JOHN D ONG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



115 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
NCNB Plans a Quick Sale of Bad Loans

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The NCNB Corporation is planning for rapid sales of bad loans after its year-end merger with the C&S/Sovran Corporation, and has promised to concentrate on improving profits of its existing businesses rather than continuing the rapid expansion of the last decade.
"Our growth goals have been achieved," said Hugh L. McColl Jr., NCNB's chairman, who will be chairman of the merged bank, to be called Nationsbank. "Now is the time for running what we have built." 
 Besides the $450 million of savings he expects from the merger -- up from $350 million predicted earlier this year -- Mr. McColl said profits would grow as the economy improved and the company began investing deposits in high-rate consumer loans rather than low-yielding government securities.
Because of the leading position Nationsbank will have in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee, Mr. McColl said "we are going to be the damn elephant" and raise prices for loans and services. He said employee incentive programs had already been changed to encourage improving the profitability of each loan, with less emphasis on growth.
Quick sales of bad real estate loans, mostly in the Washington area, will be possible without big losses next year because Nationsbank will have already set aside reserves to cover losses, Mr. McColl said. He noted that land loans might sell at only 40 cents on the dollar, with most commercial real estate loans fetching between 60 and 67 cents.
While Nationsbank quickly disposes of its own bad loans, Mr. McColl foresees another 10 years of good business opportunities for the Asset Management Resolution Company, a NCNB subsidiary specializing in managing bad loans that the Federal Government acquired from failed banks and savings institutions.
Mr. McColl said Asset Management planned to increase its business from $17 billion in loans to more than $25 billion by winning more Federal contracts and by purchasing up to $4 billion of weak loans from Nationsbank. At that point, he said Asset Management could be earning $100 million annually and could operate independently.
A sale of Asset Management, either to outside investors or Nationsbank shareholders is desirable, Mr. McColl said "because it would eliminate the negative good will" incurred by a company whose business is to dun delinquent borrowers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NCNB CORP NCNB CORP (93%); ASSET MANAGEMENT RESOLUTION CO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NCNB CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MERGERS (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (52%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL HUGH L MCCOLL JR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



116 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M., Bull Reported In Talks

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 3

 BODY:
I.B.M. is negotiating with Bull, France's largest computer maker, about possible cooperation in advanced microprocessor technology, a French business newspaper reported today.
According to the newspaper, La Tribune de l'Expansion, the talks might lead to an agreement by the end of the year that would give Bull access to the International Business Machines Corporation's fast RISC microprocessor technology. 
 In a statement today, Bull said that no agreement had been reached with any company because discussions involving several options were still under consideration. Bull said that it had held discussions with several large companies in the last few months to explore cooperation in open systems.
 
Other U.S. Companies Mentioned
 The statement said Bull was talking to members of the Open Software Foundation, a group that promotes open systems and includes I.B.M., the Hewlett-Packard Company and the Digital Equipment Corporation. "Open systems" refers to computers and computer networks that allow various manufacturers' equipment to work interchangeably.
The newspaper article said Bull had held talks with Hewlett-Packard and Digital Equipment, but officials knowledgeable about the negotiations confirmed that the discussions were most advanced with I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard.
An I.B.M. spokesman would not confirm that his company had negotiated with Bull. But he said I.B.M. often talked with computer manufacturers around the world to discuss many subjects, ranging from cooperation in specific areas to licensing its RISC -- reduced instruction set computer -- technology. I.B.M. has already agreed to share its highly praised RISC technology with Apple Computer and Motorola Inc.
I.B.M. now produces some disk drives for Bull.
 
A Japanese Presence
 Bull has suffered huge losses in recent months as European computer makers struggle to compete against their larger American and Japanese rivals. Bull already has a cooperation agreement with the NEC Corporation of Japan, which holds a 4.7 percent stake in Bull and supplies Bull's largest mainframes. The French Government owns 93 percent of Bull's shares.
Electronics analysts say the French Government, which is worried about Japan's increasing economic strength, might be happy to see an American company enter into a cooperation pact with Bull to counterbalance NEC.
These analysts said it was possible that an American partner might someday acquire a stake in Bull. The French Government recently announced that it would allow foreign companies that form strategic alliances with state-owned companies to buy into their equity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (94%); IBMC (BRU) (92%); IBM (NYSE) (92%); IBM (LSE) (92%); BULL (PAR) (91%); 6701 (TSE) (82%); MSI (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); BULL SA HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (94%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (92%); BULL SAS (91%); NEC CORP (82%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (66%); OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); BULL SA

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS COMPUTER MAKERS (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); JOINT VENTURES (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



117 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed in Slow Day As Gold Posts Broad Decline

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mixed on world markets yesterday in slow trading.
Gold prices fell worldwide. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $363.50 an ounce, off $3.50 from Monday. The Republic National Bank of New York said gold had fallen $2.55 an ounce, to a late bid of $363.50. 
 The dollar held to a relatively narrow range and settled mostly higher in Europe, but when trading shifted to domestic markets, the currency mostly lost ground.
Analysts said the dollar received some support from the continuing political unrest in the Soviet Union. Dealers typically buy the dollar during times of world turmoil because it is perceived as a safe investment.
But the boost appeared short-lived. Speculation that German interest rates would rise held the dollar back. Investors seeking to capture higher returns on German investments would have to buy the mark, presumably at the expense of the dollar.
"Trading was caught between concerns over Soviet unrest and the possibility of a German rate hike," said Mike Malpede, a senior analyst with Refco Inc. in Chicago.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.68 yen, to 129.30 yen. Later in London, it was quoted at 129.43 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 129.30 yen, down from 130.15 yen on Monday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.7715, from $1.7760 late on Monday. In New York, it cost $1.7755 to buy a pound, more than $1.7725 on Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with those of late Monday, included: 1.6080 German marks, down from 1.6150; 1.4230 Swiss francs, down from 1.4285; 5.4980 French francs, down from 5.5170; 1,213.80 Italian lire, down from 1,218.00, and 1.1342 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1336.
Gold fell in London to a late bid of $363.80 an ounce, from $368 late Monday. In Zurich, it fell to $363.35 an ounce from $368.20. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold fell $1.08 an ounce to close at $366.60.
Silver prices also declined. On the Comex, silver bullion for current delivery settled at $4.006 an ounce, down from $4.050 on Monday. In London, it slipped to a late bid of $4.05 an ounce from $4.08.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (72%); HSB (PAR) (72%); HBC (NYSE) (72%); 0005 (HKSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (69%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (69%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); JAPAN (54%); SWITZERLAND (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); ZURICH (52%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (72%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); REFCO INC (69%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); JAPAN (54%); SWITZERLAND (52%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); ZURICH (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES; GOLD US DOLLAR (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BRITISH POUND (75%); GERMAN MARK (75%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



118 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Bank Funds, C.D.'s Lower

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
Yields on certificates of deposit and bank money market accounts dropped steadily through the week, according to The Bank Rate Monitor, the publication that specializes in covering interest rates.
"Because of the certainty of even lower savings yields ahead, Citibank and other large institutions are positioning themselves by cutting passbook rates now," said Robert K. Heady, The Monitor's publisher. "Although that account is not so rate sensitive, it represents a significant percentage of total core deposits in the banking industry. 
 "Hence," he added, "these reductions are bellwethers of what is to come."
Mr. Heady noted that a large bank in Chicago had cut its passbook rate to 3.15 percent, from 4.34 percent, effective Dec. 19.
 
Banco Popular at 4.34%
 In the case of yields on money market accounts, the largest cut for the week among New York banks was made by Banco Popular, which lowered its rate by 26 basis points, to 4.34 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
"The speed of the decline continues unabated, despite the fact that it has been four weeks since the banks' prime rate last fell," Mr. Heady said. "That can be chalked up to a weakening economy."
He noted that the First Nationwide Bank made the biggest cuts in its yields among savings banks in the New York area on its three-month and six-month certificates of deposit -- 25 basis points and 45 basis points, respectively. The three-month C.D. now carries a rate of 4.25 percent, while the six-month carries 4.30 percent.
For the New York commercial banks, the average yield on money market accounts was 4.24 percent, down 5 basis points, while the average yield on three-month certificates were 4.30 percent, down 6 basis points. On six-month certificates, the average yield was 4.37 percent, down 7 basis points.
At savings institutions in the New York area, yields were cut to 4.92 percent, down 7 basis points, for money market accounts; to 4.93, down 9 basis points, for three-month certificates, and to 5.10 percent, down 10 basis points, for six-month certificates.
The Monitor said the average yields at 20 leading banks outside the New York area had been cut 4 basis points, to 4.55 percent, on money market accounts, and 5 basis points, to 4.69 percent, for six-month certificates.
By comparison, at the Treasury Department's weekly bill auction on Monday, the three-month bill was auctioned at an average discount rate of 4.39 percent, compared with 4.44 percent a week earlier; the six-month bill also averaged 4.39 percent, down from 4.50 percent the previous week.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, December 4, 1991. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 	New York Area	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	Banco Popular	4.34	4.24	4.29	Bank of N.Y.	4.24	4.34	4.34	Bank of Tokyo Trust	4.40	3.95	3.80	Chase Manhattan	4.18	4.18	4.24	Chemical	4.08	3.68	3.68	Citibank	3.67	3.95	4.00	Conn. Natl Bank	4.54	4.55	4.70	EAB	4.13	4.24	4.34	First Fidelity (N.J.)	4.50	4.85	5.05	Fleet Bank	4.17	4.40	4.59	Manufacturers Hanover	4.08	4.24	4.29	Marine Midland	4.07	4.08	4.24	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	4.60	4.80	5.10	Nat'l Westminster	4.08	4.34	4.34	Republic Nat'l	4.45	4.60	4.60	 	 	 	 	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	American Savings	4.90	5.00	5.05	Anchor Savings	5.00	5.05	5.05	Apple Bank Savings	4.85	4.76	5.13	Astoria Federal	4.59	4.68	4.73	Bowery Savings	4.90	4.97	5.18	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	5.38	5.20	5.25	Crossland Savings	5.15	5.02	5.30	Dime Savings Bank	5.00	5.00	5.20	Dollar Dry Dock	4.92	4.92	5.18	Emigrant Savings	4.80	4.90	4.95	First Nationwide	4.55	4.25	4.30	Green Point Savings	5.00	N.O.	5.25	Howard Savings (N.J.)	5.05	5.20	5.55	Hudson City Bk (N.J.)	5.07	5.35	5.50	People's Bank (Conn.)	4.65	4.76	4.86	
 	 	 	 	 	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.		Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg	Security Pacific (L.A.)	4.69	0.00	4.55	0.05	First National (Chicago)	4.50	0.00	4.60	0.00	Bank of Boston	4.70	0.05	4.91	0.10	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	4.60	0.00	4.70	0.00	First Interstate (L.A.)	4.28	0.14	4.23	0.16	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	4.60	0.00	4.40	0.00	NBD Bank (Detroit)	4.54	0.10	4.30	0.10	Union Bank (S.F.)	4.70	0.00	4.71	0.05	Fleet Bank of Mass.	4.23	0.00	4.81	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	4.60	0.15	4.40	0.10	Maryland Natl Bk	4.85	0.00	5.10	0.10	First Bank (Minnesota)	4.44	0.00	4.75	0.05	Meridian (Reading, Pa.)	4.50	0.05	4.80	0.05	Sovran (Richmond, Va.)	4.85	0.00	4.90	0.05	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	4.59	0.00	4.50	0.10	C & S (Atlanta)	4.61	0.00	4.79	0.08	Citibank, S.D.	4.68	0.11	5.49	0.11	Texas Commerce (Houston)	4.33	0.00	4.44	+0.05	NCNB Tampa	4.25	0.25	4.65	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	4.36	0.00	4.70	0.00	
 
N.A. Rate not available; N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)
Table: "Bank Money Accounts"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: POPA (FRA) (91%); POP (MCE) (91%); BPE (LIS) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); READING, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONWIDE BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); READING, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (79%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); AUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



119 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Move to Longer Issues Lifts Prices

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved modestly higher in light trading yesterday, as the economy's poor performance and lackluster prospects began to lure traders and investors into longer-term notes and bonds.
For the last several weeks, credit market participants have largely ignored reports of how weak the economy has become, preferring instead to worry about what policy makers in Washington might do to reinvigorate it. But with Congress in recess until next year, the focus is shifting, analysts said. 
 The reports of a meager one-tenth of 1 percent rise in the index of leading economic indicators during October and a modest rise in new-home sales did little to excite traders yesterday.
"Rates are low, and I guess they are going to stay that way for a while unless we get a surprise from the numbers," one government-securities trader said.
 
Seeking Higher Yields
 Mitchell Held, chief financial economist at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, suggested that some of yesterday's buying was by investors seeking the higher yields of long-term issues.
"The spread between 10-year notes and 30-year bonds is more than 60 basis points, and that is attractive," Mr. Held said. Moreover, he added, "the economy is weak, and bond yields of around 7.9 probably don't reflect that weakness."
The gap between yields on five-year maturities and 10-year notes is also extremely wide, and yesterday investors began to commit funds into long-term notes.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 7.5 percent 10-year notes were offered at a price of 101 5/8, up 7/32, to yield 7.26 percent.
Meanwhile, the Treasury's benchmark issue, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021, were offered at 101 5/32 late yesterday, up 1/32, to yield 7.89 percent, compared with 7.90 percent late Monday.
Normally, the yield spread between 10-year notes and 30-year bonds is closer to between 25 and 30 basis points, Mr. Held said.
 
5-Year Note Rises
 Elsewhere in the secondary market for Treasury notes, the 6.5 percent five-year notes were offered at 100 17/32, up 5/32, to yield 6.37 percent. And the 5.5 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 14/32, up 3/ 32, to yield 5.26 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates moved lower. In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 4.34 percent, down three basis points, or three one-hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell four basis points, to a late offered rate of 4.33 percent.
Participants in the tax-exempt municipal bond market had an exceptionally busy day, as roughly $1.4 billion worth of new issues were priced.
The largest deal was the negotiated sale of $300 million worth of securities for the New York Power Authority. The issue consisted of revenue bonds maturing in 2019, serial bonds with maturities from 1992 to 2007 and term bonds maturing in 2012 and 2020.
The securities were initially priced with a maximum yield of 6.803 percent on the bonds maturing in 2019.
A group led by the First Boston Corporation acted as lead managers for the underwriting. The securities are rated AA by both Moody's Investors Service and by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
Corporate Issues Priced
 A number of new debt issues were also priced in the investment-grade corporate bond market, including $150 million worth of seven-year notes for the Morgan Stanley Group.
The 7 7/8 percent notes were priced at $99.92 to yield 7.89 percent, 1.05 percentage points more than the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 1/8 percent seven-year notes at the time of pricing.
Morgan Stanley acted as lead manager on the transaction. The securities are rated A-1 by Moody's and A+ by Standard & Poor's.
Salomon Brothers acted as lead manager on a $150 million offering of 10-year subordinated notes for Fleet/ Norstar Financial Group.
The 9 percent notes were priced at $100, or par, 1.68 percentage points more than the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7.5 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities, which are noncallable for life, are rated Baa-3 by Moody's and BBB by Standard & Poor's.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



120 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2560 words

HEADLINE: Intractable Trade Issues With Japan

SERIES: 50 Years Later -- The Sticky Differences: Second of three articles

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 3

 BODY:
For nearly a decade, Japan and the United States have labored to bridge their economic differences through a series of unusually intense trade negotiations. Despite occasional bitterness on both sides, they shared a belief that only a few barriers stood in the way of an even deeper economic alliance from which the whole world would benefit.
Now, however, there is a growing belief that some of those differences may be irreconcilable. For the first time since these former enemies bound their destinies together after World War II, there is a sense that the world's two largest economies are drifting apart. 
 "The process has simply not gone as well as we had hoped," said J. Michael Farren, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade. "It will not get us where we want to go. We'll make incremental progress, but it's not going to put us in the position where the trade frictions are eliminated."
Ironically, many Government officials, business leaders and trade experts say that it was the effort to come closer together that accentuated the fundamentally different approaches to economic policy, bringing the two nations to this point of departure.
The American economy is managed to benefit the consumer, who is given access to cheap imports and protected from overly great concentrations of corporate power. The Japanese model, on the other hand, is run to maximize the strength of producers, which means its consumers pay some of the highest prices in the world and exercise the least control over corporate behavior.
It is not just a clash of cultures but a clash of economic strategies, a competition of ideas. American officials argue that because of this orientation the Japanese economy remains frustratingly closed, in spite of the easing of barriers to some markets, like beef, citrus, semiconductors and wood products.
"It's hard to show that any of these individual breakthroughs have altered the fundamental system," said David C. Mulford, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Af fairs. "Every time we think we've made some progress, we keep finding ourselves back at the structural issues."
Nobody is seriously predicting an outright break in this powerful Pacific alliance and trade is expected to grow. But there are suggestions that each will play less of a role in the other's future.
The Japanese will place more of their emphasis on investment in Asia, leaving less capital to finance United States budget deficits or to buy up American companies or open new factories. Japanese electronic goods and automobiles will not disappear from American shelves or showrooms, but increasingly they will come from factories in Asia, rather than in Japan or the United States. That will mean less job creation in Ohio or Tennessee, as the Japanese start up fewer new ventures in the United States.
Of course, none of this will happen overnight. It will take many years to redirect even a portion of what is now a substantial interdependence. The United States and Japan together account for about 40 percent of the world economy, and much of the business they do is with each other. About $140 billion worth of goods will flow between Japan and the United States this year, as well as billions of dollars in investments. Canada remains America's largest trading partner, but Japan and the United States are each other's largest overseas trading partners.
Nor will the two sides give up entirely on trying to facilitate the trade that does continue. But trade negotiations may face some chages.
Some key Government officials also say that the unending marathon of trade confrontations, which has involved meetings almost monthly for several years running, has created a sense of "burnout."
"Frankly, some of the talks on opening specific sectors have borne fruit," Mr. Farren said. "They have also persuaded us that the problems are much more fundamental than trade impediments."
 
Trying to Ease Off One-on-One Focus
 Mr. Farren said there was some interest in both Washington and Tokyo to try to ease away from the head-to-head focus and turn to international bodies to resolve some disputes. This approach was resisted for decades because of the special postwar security relationship between the two countries. The United States did not want to apply too much pressure on Japan or isolate it in opposition to both the United States and Europe because of its role as an ally in the battle against Communism in Asia.
There is also concern that the bargaining process may be taken out of the hands of the trade negotiators and enter the political arena. Some members of Congress are threatening to raise barriers against the import of some Japanese goods as a form of retaliation. This prospect is considered even more likely if the large American deficit in autos and auto parts worsens further.
And there are concerns here that the formation of the North American free-trade zone by the United States, Canada and Mexico may redirect America's trade strategy toward the Americas rather than Asia.
Japanese officials still try to put the best face on the situation. They generally emphasize the progress that has been made and say the trade negotiations have been necessary to open their economy.
But they, too, admit to nagging frustrations over the failure of the United States to live up to some of the promises it made at the negotiating table. These include the reduction of the yawning Federal budget deficit and an increase in America's modest savings and investment rates. The Japanese also criticize what they say is an American tendency to blame others for these problems.
Many Japanese officials have also grown more open in describing the American economic system as a relic of the cold war, while saying Japan's system is better suited to the competitive era that lies ahead.
"The Japanese way of doing things seems to fit this stage of history better," said Koji Watanabe, Deputy Foreign Minister for Economic Affairs. "The Japanese system puts emphasis on stability and teamwork and has distinct advantages. It fits the requirements of the times, particularly at this stage of technological development."
Many here are questioning not just America's commitment to Japan, but to Asia, as diminishing financial resources leave Washington less able to sustain its military dominance of both the Atlantic and the Pacific. Although American leaders from President Bush down have expressed an unwavering interest in Asia and Japan, some say there is unmistakable evidence -- such as the shrinking military presence of the United States in Asia and the downturn in Japan's economic investment in the United States -- that the links are loosening.
"There's no doubt we are drifting apart," said Glen Fukushima, a former American trade official who is an executive in Japan for A.T.&T. "But it is being papered over by the rhetoric."
 
Japan Steps Up Trade With Asia
 Indeed, Japan is contributing to the sense of drift by increasing its economic focus on Asia and methodically lessening its dependence on the American market. This year, for the first time in the postwar era, Japan will conduct significantly more trade with its Asian neighbors than with the United States. And that trend is believed certain to continue.
Yotaro Kobayashi, president of Fuji Xerox, a venture half-controlled by the American office-equipment concern, is an articulate business leader who at one time advocated the primacy of the Japan-United States relationship. He holds degrees from American and Japanese universities and sits on several high-level commissions promoting the relationship. But he is speaking out now for what he calls the "re-Asianization" of Japan.
"There has been a feeling that our trade may have been too skewed toward the bilateral relationship," Mr. Kobayashi commented. "The point is not to disassociate Japan from the United States, but to point out that it is natural for us to strengthen our ties with Asian countries."
He added: "Americans' domestic situation is so bad that this may make them feel uneasy, that Asia is drifting away. The difficulty will be in carefully handling that situation to stop the United States from becoming defensive."
There are other signs, too, of a slow disengagement. Despite high-profile investments like the purchase of MCA and the Pebble Beach golf course in recent years, Japan's direct investment in the United States -- which includes real estate, joint ventures and factories rather than just portfolio investments in securities -- has plummeted. It will have invested barely $2 billion in the weak American economy this year, down from $26 billion last year.
Over all, from 1985 to 1989, Japan invested a staggering $235 billion in the United States. But since then it has actually withdrawn slightly more than $50 billion if all kinds of investments are included. Where Japanese bidders once snapped up 40 percent and more of the bonds auctioned by the Treasury, it now buys 10 percent or less.
The basic rules of the United States-Japan relationship were established in response to the cold war. The United States agreed to defend Japan and the Japanese agreed to support and follow America's lead on political and security issues. The United States also granted Japan free access to the American market and permitted the Japanese to protect their home industries to insure their recovery, making the country a bulwark against Communism.
The lack of balance in that bargain became strikingly evident in the last decade, as the flow of trade and investment soared. While Japanese corporations snapped up everything from Columbia Pictures to a significant interest in Rockefeller Center, foreigners found it almost impossible to invest in Japan, either because companies were too deeply entwined in keiretsu -- interlocking corporate groupings -- or because prices in Japan's overheated markets were prohibitive.
From 1985 through 1990, Japan made direct investments abroad of $239.4 billion, of which $110 billion went to the United States; during the same period just $5.3 billion of direct investment entered Japan from all sources. In those same years, Japan sold $403 billion more worth of goods to its trading partners than it bought from them.
"The Japanese have built a structure that is completely different from ours," said Arnold Brenner, an executive vice president in charge of the Japan operations of Motorola, an electronics manufacturer that is regarded as one of the more successful American companies in Japan. "For an American company it is always going to be especially tough to break in. It has nothing to do with the government. It has to do with a structure and a philosophy."
Mr. Brenner is one of many who has thus concluded that the intensive trade negotiation process has not eliminated the economic differences.
"Are we getting closer? I'd have to say that on the broad, structural issues neither country feels closer than we did 5 or 10 years ago," he said.
Compounding the concern is the steep rise in Japan's trade surplus again this year. Japan's overall surplus is expected to hit $70 billion or more this year and perhaps $100 billion next year, compared with $52 billion in 1990. Japan's surplus with the United States is expected to rise above the current level of $40 billion when the American recession ends.
 
Search for Solutions: First Steps in 1978
 The first steps toward the experiment in managing trade problems came in 1978, when the United States insisted that Japan's protectionist economy be opened. The United States prodded Japan to raise its stingy level of imports.
The efforts intensified in 1981, when President Ronald Reagan abandoned his free-market rhetoric and persuaded Japan to accept voluntary restraints on its auto exports to America. Japan then acceded to American demands in 1983 that it loosen quotas on the import of beef and citrus fruits.
Another key phase in the efforts to redress the trade problems began in September 1985 with what was called the Plaza Accord. At a meeting at the Plaza Hotel in New York, the United States, Japan and five other leading industrialized countries agreed to devalue the dollar against the yen and other currencies to tame America's widening trade deficit. The weaker dollar made it cheaper for foreigners to purchase American goods, increasing exports, while crimping imports by making them more expensive.
In addition, American negotiators attacked an array of trade barriers in Japan, involving everything from supercomputers to cigarettes to the construction market.
The weaker dollar reduced America's once-large trade deficit with the European Community; this year, in fact, it is expected to become a surplus. But the deficit with Japan remains high, at more than $40 billion.
That means that Japan now accounts for about two-thirds of America's overall trade deficit, and $30 billion, or three-fourths of the deficit with Japan, is accounted for by autos and auto parts, which is regarded as a politically dangerous problem.
Something else happened during these critical years. Faced with a much stronger yen, Japanese corporations embarked on a crash program to enhance their efficiency. They poured tens of billions of dollars into new technologies and research, far outspending their American counterparts. They turned the country's greatest postwar economic boom into a period of restructuring that has left Japan more competitive than ever.
During those same years, the United States Federal budget deficit soared to new highs. Its personal savings rate never rose above 7.5 percent, compared with more than 14 percent in Japan. American investment bankers grew rich from a flurry of takeovers and buyouts, but many industrial concerns found themselves overwhelmed with debt as a result.
"We had always assumed that in the process of adjusting you would be moving more or less in the same direction," Mr. Watanabe, the Deputy Foreign Minister, said. "But our efforts have not been matched yet."
The United States has also found itself unprepared for the new assertiveness on Japan's part. Tadao Chino, Deputy Finance Minister for International Affairs, counts himself an optimist on the future of the relationship, but he said it was time for the United States to listen to Japan for a change.
"Now we expect the United States will be more active in cooperating with us in this region," Mr. Chino said. "After all, the United States and Japan are global partners."
In the United States, meanwhile, the answer for many Government officials and businessmen is to expect less of Japan and more from the United States. Few want to halt the trade-negotiating sessions, since they have achieved some successes. But neither do they want to rest all of their hopes for trade balance on changes in Japan, as they once did.
Perhaps the most sobering realization is how wide the gap of understanding remains.
"Frankly, we don't know each other so well," said Makoto Utsumi, who retired this summer as the Finance Ministry's top trade official. "The problem comes from the fact that Japanese believe they know the United States and Americans think they know Japan, but the facts suggest otherwise."
NEXT: Japan is pouring billions of dollars and enormous energy into Asia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 1985 Plaza Accord was a major step in dealng with trade problems between the United States and Japan. Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita and Treasury Secretary James A. Baker 3d appeared together after the negotiations for the accord. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. D4)
 
Graphs: "Japanese Surplus, American Deficit" shows balance of trade for Japan with the U.S. and the U.S. with Japan from '80 to '90 (Sources: Japanese Ministry of Finance, U.S. Commerce Department, DRI/McGraw Hill) (pg. D1); "Pulling Back the Reins" shows cumulative Japanese investment in the U.S. from '80 to '90 (Source: U.S. Treasury Department) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); ASIA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SURVEYS AND SERIES TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); ELECTRONICS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); WORLD WAR II (55%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



121 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: United Expects Record Loss

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 3

 BODY:
United Airlines said today that it expected to post record losses for the fourth quarter and the year because of the weak economy and discount pricing in the airline industry.
United also said American Airlines had dropped its bid to block a Dec. 30 vote by Air Wisconsin shareholders on United's $70 million acquisition of the commuter airline. 
 A Federal judge set a trial date of Feb. 10, though, for American's antitrust lawsuit challenging the deal.
Last month, Air Wisconsin rejected American's offer to buy 50 landing slots at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport for $100 million.
United's parent company, the Chicago-based UAL Corporation, will record a fourth-quarter net loss steeper than its record $123.5 million loss in the fourth quarter of 1990, said a spokeswoman, Lynn Martenstein.
Together with the cumulative loss of $79.3 million already posted for the first nine months of 1991, the fourth-quarter results would bring UAL's loss for the year to more than $202.8 million. The airline's previous record annual loss was $112.8 million in 1986, Ms. Martenstein said.
United reported a 5.3 percent increase in passenger traffic in November over the period a year earlier, but said it filled only 61 percent of its seats in the month compared with 61.4 percent last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (89%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES INC UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (89%); ILLINOIS, USA (89%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; FINANCES AIRLINES (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); LITIGATION (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); JUDGES (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



122 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Into a Statistical Exile: the G.N.P.

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
At a time when no morsel of fresh information on the economy seems too exotic to be gobbled up by political interpreters, the Commerce Department is about to provide a feast.
On Wednesday the Government will begin emphasizing the gross domestic product instead of the gross national product as its most widely followed measure of the economy's performance. 
 Perhaps to insure indigestion, the shift will include a comprehensive revision of the most fundamental data -- the national income and production accounts -- combined with updated statistics and definitional changes. One effect of these changes will be to make the recession appear sharper but perhaps shorter than had been thought.
All this "should be unusually messy," Fuji Securities Inc. of Chicago warned clients recently.
G.N.P. data have been published since 1941 and will continue to be reported, but typically a month later than G.D.P. The two measures gauge the total output of goods and services. The difference for the United States is relatively small, with G.N.P. covering production by American residents, regardless of location, while G.D.P. covers workers and capital employed within the nation's borders.
Economists generally support the change, agreeing with the Commerce Department that G.D.P. better reflects the economy's performance. The switch also aligns the United States with practices in most other industrialized countries, making comparisons easier. Canada adopted G.D.P. as its primary production measure in 1986.
No matter what the figures, of course, an assortment of voices will be heard declaring that the data prove things are better or worse than widely supposed or that they are inadequate or possibly "cooked."
At a briefing, Commerce Department officials declined to speculate on what political hay Democrats, say, might try to make from the new figures. They rejected any suggestion that the process itself might have been tainted by the Bush Administration or anyone else.
"The bureau makes its estimates independently of the policy makers," said Larry Moran, spokesman for the Bureau of Economic Analysis, part of the Commerce Department. "To my knowledge, there's never been any tampering."
There have, however, been occasions -- apparently rare and unsuccessful -- when politicians have tried to persuade the statisticians to combine the figures in a particular way to support a given point of view.
Some Democrats might ask about the timing of the change. Among other things, G.D.P., unlike G.N.P., is not reduced by the increasing amounts of interest foreigners collect on Treasury securities.
The department has already provided some grist for argument, publishing to little notice its calculations of what happens when the base period used to adjust economic-output figures for inflation is advanced to 1987 from 1982. In general, when output is recalculated using more recent prices, the components that have grown strongly receive less weight and total output is therefore reduced. Production of computers, for example, has risen in recent years, but because prices have fallen, their contribution to total output would be lower using 1987 instead of 1982 as a base.
On a 1987 basis, both G.D.P. and G.N.P. showed that the economy slumped more sharply in the fall of 1990 and improved more in the spring of this year than the use of 1982 prices would indicate. For G.N.P., the shift to 1987 prices converts a rate of decline of five-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter of this year into an advance of four-tenths of 1 percent. For G.D.P., a gain of three-tenths of 1 percent for the period becomes a rise of 1.2 percent.
 
One Negative Effect
 Comparing G.N.P. on the old 1982 basis with G.D.P. on the 1987 basis, the deterioration during the fourth quarter of 1990 is even more pronounced -- a negative 3.7 percent rate instead of a negative 1.6 percent -- and the rebound comparably sharper.
Among other changes, losses from bad debts, formerly considered expenses to the lenders and income to the defaulters, will be designated as financial transactions, increasing the income of lenders and reducing the incomes of defaulters for statistical purposes.
Wednesday's flood of statistics will also include the monthly revision to quarterly output, which for the third quarter was initially reported up 2.4 percent on G.N.P. and 2.5 percent on G.D.P., though slightly less in terms of 1987 dollars. The revised gain is expected to be significantly higher.
But the new approach is unlikely to have a large enough effect "to change anybody's view about what's going on now," said Robert Ford, chief economist for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "New Twist on Economic Data" shows annual rate of change in G.N.P. and the gross domestic product from '90 to '91 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: FUJI SECURITIES INC (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



123 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: October New-Home Sales Up 2.2% in Year's 7th Gain

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
Consumers edged back into the housing market in October, pushing new-home sales up 2.2 percent for the seventh gain since the housing recession hit bottom in January, the Government reported today.
While analysts found the report encouraging, they worried that sales could turn negative in coming months, as they did in July and September, unless the economy took a turn for the better. 
 The report said sales were mixed, rising in the Midwest and South but falling in the Northeast and West.
Mark Tipton, president of the National Association of Home Builders, said the nation "needs an economic stimulus package, and we need it now" to overcome dwindling consumer confidence.
Mr. Tipton said it was the same message that he and other real estate officials took to the White House on Monday when they met with President Bush.
The Commerce and Housing and Urban Development Departments said today that sales of single-family homes totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 513,000 in October, up from 502,000 a month earlier.
The report also showed that September sales, which had first been estimated to have plunged 12.9 percent, actually fell only 4.9 percent.
"However, the housing market, as well as the overall economy, still has not regained the momentum seen after the conclusion of the Persian Gulf war," said John A. Tuccillo, an economist with the National Association of Realtors, who also called on the Government "to stimulate our ailing economy."
Analysts attributed the October gain and the upward September revision both to lower mortgage interest rates and to lower prices.
The interest rate on the average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage slipped below 9 percent in October for the first time in more than 13 years, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation said.
At the same time, the home-sales report said the median price of a new home fell from $123,600 in September to $122,900 in October. The median means half of the homes cost more and half less.
The lower rates also played a part in a 1 percent advance in sales of existing homes in October. The increase, the first in four months, was reported earlier.
Thomas Holloway, an economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association, also noted that inventories declined in October, providing builders with an incentive to build houses and further stimulate the economy.
Regionally, the Midwest posted the largest gain, an 8.1 percent increase, to a rate of 107,000 units. Sales in the South were up 6 percent, to 213,000.
But sales plunged 5.9 percent, to 127,000, in the West, and they slipped 1.5 percent, to 66,000, in the Northeast.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Prices of New Homes" shows median price for new homes from 5/90 to 10/91 (Source: Commerce Department); "New-Home Sales" shows new private homes sold from 5/90 to 10/91) (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; HOUSING STARTS REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); CONSUMER LENDING (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); DESERT STORM (65%); CITIES (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



124 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Radio Waves Can Be Solid Gold

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
WANT to earn big money in your spare time? You might take a flier on a sure-fire cold fusion stock recommended by that nice young broker on the telephone from Fort Lauderdale. Or you could really strike it rich by doing what hundreds of lucky millionaires have done: enter one of Washington's bizarre lotteries for licenses to use the airwaves.
For years, economists have gnashed their teeth over the policy of giving away stunningly valuable rights to use the radio spectrum. And for years, those who already control commercial licenses have successfully defended their sinecures by fending off attempts to end the giveaway. 
 But the stalemate is apparently on the verge of being broken. Thanks to the persistence of the revenue-hungry Bush Administration and a growing realization among Congressional Democrats that assignment by any other means has become an administrative nightmare, there's an excellent chance Uncle Sam will auction off some new licenses. The public payoff, estimates Peter Pitsch, a former Federal Communications Commission staff member who is a communications consultant in Washington, could amount to "billions and billions."
Room on the spectrum, needed for everything from broadcasting television to paging the dishwasher repairman, has generally been parceled out to the applicants who can show how they are uniquely qualified to revitalize the economy or brighten the dreary lives of their fellow Americans. But once assigned, licenses effectively became private property, to be freely sold to anyone without a felony conviction.
That makes the award equivalent to a visit from John Beresford Tipton. And as the value of the licenses has grown, so has the legion of lawyers employed to argue over their initial disposition. Polite elbowing for the juicier slices of the spectrum in the 1960's and 70's turned to outright frenzy in the 80's, once the commission started dispensing licenses for cellular phone systems in big cities, worth hundreds of millions of dollars each. In an attempt to cut through the time-consuming sham of searching for the most qualified licensees, the commission decided in the late 1980's to distribute licenses by lottery.
But the lotteries have not reduced the agency's workload. Consultants armed with laser printers and faxes now stand poised to fire off lottery entries at the first glimpse of license green. Earlier this year, a lottery for relatively low-value spectrum to be used for data transfer services drew 60,000 applications in just two days.
Nor have the lotteries satisfied critics like the former F.C.C. chairman, Mark Fowler, who asks why the Government gives away the spectrum when it sells rights to extract oil, harvest timber and graze cattle on public land. The Commerce Department estimates that the total market value of cellular phone licenses alone exceeds $50 billion. It is, in fact, the lure of this revenue that is changing the politics of spectrum policy. The Bush Administration is eager for any new source of cash that does not begin with the letter T. And it has refused to go along with a Congressional initiative to transfer a fat slab of underused spectrum from government to civilian use unless the licenses are sold to the highest bidder.
A year ago Congress would almost certainly have defended license applicants' rights to something for nothing. But a combination of disgust with the lottery follies and pressure to make room for new mobile communications technologies has weakened the opposition. "There's open-mindedness on the part of Democrats," reports Janice Obuchowski, the Assistant Secretary of Commerce in charge of telecommunications policy.
In the Senate, an auction bill is expected to breeze through next session, after broadcasters and perhaps rural telephone companies have carved exemptions in stone. It will have a tougher time in the House, where John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who is the powerful chairman of the Commerce Committee and a longstanding skeptic on auctions, is sure to demand his pound of flesh. But aides to Mr. Dingell say that he will try to square the auction idea with sound public policy, not kill it altogether.
Mr. Dingell will, for example, seek to prevent the Government from enriching the Treasury at the expense of consumers who must buy services from license holders. Such ploys are not unthinkable: Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, sometime champion of free markets, worked to shore up British Airways' privileged landing rights and routes before selling the airline on the stock market.
Even with Congressionally mandated restrictions, the pot of gold at the end of the auction rainbow could be enormous. A dazzling array of new technologies, ranging from low-cost pocket phones to compact-disk quality digital radio to satellite-based worldwide communications systems, lack only room on the spectrum to become a commercial reality. And this time around, Uncle Sam could share in the bounty.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: FCC CO LTD (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); MINERAL LEASES (76%); LICENSES & PERMITS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); FELONIES (64%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (50%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (50%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (50%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER JOHN D DINGELL (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



125 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Maxwell Empire Is Near Collapse As Son Discloses Far Higher Debts

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
The publishing empire of the late Robert Maxwell seemed on the brink of collapse today as one of his sons disclosed that the debts of its private family-owned businesses were far greater than previously estimated, raising the prospect that the family would lose control of its vast holdings.
The Maxwell family's holdings are clustered into three spheres, two of which are publicly traded companies that the Maxwells control. The third company is a collection of private companies and trusts controlled by the Maxwell family, and it owns, among other things, The Daily News in New York. 
 The future of The Daily News is now in the hands of bankers who might sell it or conceivably even close it. Kevin Maxwell, the 32-year-old son of Mr. Maxwell, will remain publisher of The News. He said that he would fly tonight to New York and that the Maxwell family's widening financial crisis would not immediately affect the newspaper's operations. [Page D6.]
The Maxwell family's private companies are in such dire straits that apparently without the bankers' knowledge, loans from the publicly held companies had been used to prop them up. One of the public companies, Mirror Group Newspapers P.L.C., disclosed tonight that an investigation had found that a significant amount of the assets of its pension fund had been used to shore up the family's private businesses.
Only last week, the Maxwell family said that the debt of its private companies totaled about 800 million ($1.42 billion) and that it was trying to negotiate a restructuring of the debt. But today, Kevin Maxwell said it was "in excess of 900 million." And an adviser to the Maxwells said it was "several hundred million pounds more."
Citing potential conflicts between the private and public sides of the family's businesses, Kevin Maxwell announced at a news conference here that he had resigned as chairman and chief executive of the Maxwell Communication Corporation, the publicly held but family-dominated corporate flagship. It owns a host of companies, mostly in the United States, including Macmillan Inc., the big New York publishing house. He also resigned as a board member of Mirror Group, one of Britain's largest newspaper companies.
His brother, Ian, 35, resigned as Mirror's chairman and as a member of Maxwell Communication's board.
Three executives who have been associated with the Maxwell holdings for several years will replace the Maxwell brothers.
Kevin Maxwell met with bankers this morning. Bankers said later that they had been shocked to learn of the intercompany loans. Auditors are continuing to investigate the loans, Mr. Maxwell said. Until the investigation is completed, it will not be known to what extent the loans, which apparently occurred under Robert Maxwell, were flatly illegal or merely of questionable propriety. Mirror said the use of the pension fund was "apparently without due authority."
When asked whether his father had kept his brother and him in the dark in general, he responded, "Clearly we didn't know everything," and added that Mr. Maxwell had informed them on a "need-to-know" basis "as opposed to sharing information all the time."
 
Fuel for Speculation
 The latest revelations will undoubtedly fuel more speculation that there might have been a connection between the precarious health of the Maxwell empire and the mysterious death of Mr. Maxwell on Nov. 5. His naked body was found floating off the Canary Islands after he was discovered missing from his yacht. Spanish authorities have not released the final autopsy report.
When asked whether the family still hoped to be able to retain control of the two public companies, Kevin Maxwell said it was now out of the family's hands. "I don't think it's a question of do I hope I can maintain this, do I hope I can maintain that," he said. The family has made proposals to the banks, he continued, "which we think are commercial and rational, and it will be up to the banks to decide."
He added that there are no sacred cows, including The Daily News, which the family had previously insisted that it wanted to protect.
 
Doubt on Keeping Control
 In an interview, one of the Maxwell family's advisers said the latest developments made it highly unlikely that the family would be able to retain control of the public companies.
But it is the loans to the private companies, several of which lack adequate collateral, that are the most immediate threat to the publishing empire. The banks have informally agreed to take no action until Friday, said Derrick Plummer, director of credit control at National Westminster Bank, which is heading a steering committee of banks with loans to the private companies.
At that meeting, bankers will probably decide whether the family's debt crisis can be defused by selling some major operations. If they decide it cannot, they may force the private holdings into bankruptcy proceedings in Britain.
 
Chain Reaction Possible
 But there is likely to be a chain reaction if the private companies are forced into bankruptcy. The public companies would probably have to follow because finances are intertwined and because the private companies own the family's controlling stakes in Maxwell Communication and Mirror Group -- about 68 percent and 51 percent, respectively. Much of those stakes has been pledged as collateral for the loans of the private companies. But bankers are concerned because the 71 percent plunge in the price of Maxwell Communication stock since Mr. Maxwell's death is a main reason that the collateral of some loans is now inadequate.
Mirror and Maxwell Communication requested on Monday that trading in their shares on the London International Stock Exchange be suspended indefinitely, "pending clarification of the financial position of the Maxwell family companies and its effect on them." When suspended, Maxwell's share price was 35 pence (62 cents) and Mirror's was 1.25 ($2.22).
Mr. Plummer, the National Westminster banker, indicated that the banks' agreement not to take action against the Maxwells, which was reached on Nov. 25, was fragile. "A de facto banking standstill remains in place, but this is a very complex situation," he said in a statement.
In interviews, some other bankers were pessimistic today that the bankruptcy could be avoided. They noted that they still did not have reliable financial figures.
"The question is, do the figures stack up at all?" said one banker who insisted on anonymity. "If they don't, then management has no option but to put the thing into administration."
Analysts and some bankers predicted that in the end the family would be forced to sell most or all of its stake in Mirror Group, the public company the Maxwells are believed to want to keep the most. Until the problem with the Mirror pension fund was revealed tonight, Mirror appeared to be relatively healthy financially, with a relatively low debt level.
If a buyer did not have to worry about the pension fund, Mirror Group might sell for anywhere from 721 million ($1.28 billion) to 1.2 billion ($2.1 billion), analysts said.
On the other hand, Maxwell Communication is heavily indebted. Analysts estimated that its net debt -- debts minus cash on hand -- totaled about 1.2 billion ($2.13 billion). This figure includes the proceeds from the sales of some businesses that are in the process of being sold. If it were sold piecemeal, it might fetch about 200 million ($354.4 million) more than its net debt, said Valerie Conner, an analyst at Henderson Crosthwaite Institutional Brokers Ltd.
 
Maxwell's Dizzying Pace
 Robert Maxwell had shifted businesses around his various public and private companies at such a dizzying pace that even his executives had trouble keeping track of which entity owned what. Even so, analysts were shocked today to learn of the financial dealings between the public and private companies under Mr. Maxwell.
"That was the one thing that nobody really knew about -- the extent to which they were wrapped up together," said Derek Terrington, an analyst at Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd. "You always suspected they were linked but never knew it had reached these levels."
The Government's Serious Fraud Office said previously that it was investigating a charge that one of the Maxwell family's private companies had failed to provide the promised collateral to the Swiss Bank Corporation for a loan of 55 million ($97.5 million).
Interviewed before the Mirror disclosure on its pension fund, a spokeswoman for the Serious Fraud Office said today that the invesigation was "carrying on and hasn't widened." But she added that it could do so if auditors discovered that there had been an illegal transfer of money within the Maxwell empire. "All should become clearer later in the week," she said.
Peter Laister, who has been Maxwell Communication's deputy chairman and who had once been managing director of Thorn EMI P.L.C., the British entertainment and lighting company, succeeded Kevin Maxwell as chairman. David Shaffer, who was made the company's chief operating officer last month, was named to the additional post of managing director, which is the British equivalent of chief executive. He will continue to serve as president of Macmillan.
Ernest Burrington, who had been managing director and deputy chairman of Mirror, was named its new chairman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Creditor banks of the Maxwell publishing empire revealed yesterday that the debts of the businesses were far larger than had previously been estimated. Robert Maxwell's sons Ian, left, and Kevin are shown leaving a meeting yesterday in London with the banks' representatives. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. D6)
 
Chart: "Major Holdings of the Maxwell Empire" lists the various companies who control the Maxwell publishing empire. (Source: Company reports) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: MAXWELL COMMUNICATION CORP; MIRROR GROUP NEWSPAPERS PLC; NEW YORK DAILY NEWS MACMILLAN INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAXWELL COMMUNICATION CORP; MIRROR GROUP NEWSPAPERS PLC; NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PUBLISHING (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; MAXWELL, ROBERT; MAXWELL, KEVIN; MAXWELL, IAN ROBERT IAN CHARLES MAXWELL (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



126 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL
The Maxwell publishing empire seemed on the brink of collapse with the disclosure that the debts of its family-owned businesses were far greater than previously estimated. [Page A1.] Kevin Maxwell sent word to employees of The Daily News that the paper would not be affected by his decision to resign as chairman of Maxwell Communication. [D6.]
There is a growing belief that some of the economic differences between Japan and the U.S. may be irreconcilable. [D1.] 
 The ruble's value plummeted almost 50 percent, making it worth a little more than a penny. [A1.]
 
COMPANIES
Pan Am may be forced to stop flying as early as today because an agreement for financing from Delta collapsed, it was disclosed in bankruptcy court. [D1.]
A.T.& T. said that because of new accounting rules for retirees' health costs, it planned to take a one-time charge of as much as $7.5 billion in the first quarter of 1993. [D1.]
A dozen computer executives asked the Administration to broaden its efforts to develop technology for a nationwide high-speed computing network. [D1.]
I.B.M. is reportedly negotiating with Bull about possible cooperation in advanced microprocessor technology. [D3.]
NCNB is planning for rapid sales of bad loans after its merger with C&S/Sovran and has promised to concentrate on improving profits of its existing businesses rather than expanding. [D3.]
B. F. Goodrich said it planned to shut three plants that make vinyl resin, resulting in the layoffs of about 225 workers. [D3.]
General Motors will recall 830,000 Corsicas and Berettas built from 1988 to 1990 to replace some seat-belt parts. [B14.]
 
THE ECONOMY
The leading indicators edged up 0.1 percent in October, the third straight month of essentially flat performance after a string of solid advances from February through July. [D1.] Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said he foresaw improvement in the economy by spring. [B13.]
The Government will begin emphasizing the G.D.P. instead of the G.N.P. as its most widely followed economic measure. [D1.]
Consumers edged back into the housing market in October, pushing new-home sales up 2.2 percent. [D2.]
 
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
Car stylists are turning to computers, after resisting them on the fear that creativity would be dulled, to trim the time to develop new models. [D5.]
Teledyne Water Pik has developed an environmentally correct version of its aging Water Pik shower head. [D5.]
 
MARKETS
Stocks ended mostly higher in narrow trading, but blue chips lagged, as the Dow slipped 5.82, to 2,929.56. [D6.] Prices of Treasury securities moved modestly higher in light trading. [D12.]
Wheat futures prices soared to an 18-month high after the Soviet Union earmarked about 40 percent of $1.25 billion in U.S. food aid for wheat. [D13.] The dollar was mixed in slow trading. [D13.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
The giveaway of rights to use the radio spectrum has made economists gnash their teeth. But the stalemate may be on the verge of being broken. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
If any tax bill passes, it is likely to include a provision that would greatly improve the tax advantages of many corporate takeovers. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
The maker of Drakkar Noir is overhauling the brand's advertising. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODRICH CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); ACCOUNTING (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); CHEMICALS (69%); MICROPROCESSORS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (64%); FUTURES (62%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); WHEAT MARKETS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (54%); RESINS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



127 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: SUNUNU RESIGNS UNDER FIRE AS CHIEF AIDE TO PRESIDENT; CITES FEAR OF HURTING BUSH

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
John H. Sununu resigned today as the White House chief of staff, telling President Bush that he feared he would be "a drag" on the President's re-election campaign after months of bruising political attacks in which he had become the symbol of the increasing disarray in Mr. Bush's domestic policy team.
Mr. Sununu and the White House portrayed the departure as voluntary. But it followed meetings in which Mr. Bush listened to Mr. Sununu's arguments that he should stay on and then decided to follow the advice of top-level Republicans who urged the removal of his chief of staff.
 
Cheney a Possible Candidate
 Speculation about a successor to Mr. Sununu centered this evening on Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner, a longtime political aide to Mr. Bush who is known to want the job and has proved a popular newcomer among Washington Republicans. Some White House officials and a top Republican strategist said Mr. Skinner was Mr. Bush's choice. 
 Another possible candidate is Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, who was chief of staff under President Gerald R. Ford and is widely respected in the Republican Party and on Capitol Hill.
The removal of Mr. Sununu seemed designed to give the President a chance to dispel the aura of confusion and hesitation that has hurt his Administration in recent months. He left Mr. Sununu with a consolation prize that seemed modest in light of speculation that the chief of staff would be given a major Cabinet department to placate him and conservative Republicans who are loyal to him.
 
Letter of Tribute
 The President said he was naming Mr. Sununu a counselor to the President with Cabinet rank from the effective date of his resignation, Dec. 15, through March 1. He paid tribute to Mr. Sununu's loyalty in a letter that said he "played a major role in achieving some of our significant goals" and would continue to seek his counsel on major issues.
Mr. Sununu's resignation, which makes it simpler for Mr. Bush to name his 1992 re-election team, came after two meetings in the White House between the chief of staff and Mr. Bush.
Mr. Bush had made it clear to Mr. Sununu in the two meetings, on Sunday afternoon and again on Monday, that his position was becoming increasingly untenable and, in effect, invited the resignation, White House advisers said.
Mr. Sununu informed Mr. Bush at the Monday meeting that he intended to step down and handed in him his letter of resignation this morning as Mr. Bush flew from Washington to Florida, the White House said.
Mr. Sununu told reporters today in Mississippi, the second stop on a one-day trip, that "the President was kind enough to let me make the decision."
He continued: "I knew the rules of the game when I came to town. He's going into a campaign. He doesn't need the extra political target that folks would be shooting at."
The meetings with Mr. Bush came after shoving from lesser figures had failed to dislodge Mr. Sununu and, indeed, prompted him to appeal to conservatives on Capitol Hill to lobby the White House to keep him.
The President's son, George W. Bush, told Mr. Sununu last week that he no longer had any political support, a message that a senior Republican today called "a hint so broad that it would be hard to miss."
Mr. Bush, who was traveling in Florida and Mississippi, accepted Mr. Sununu's resignation without a grand face-saving gesture. This seemed to reflect the consensus that Mr. Sununu was responsible for several embarrassing political missteps and flip-flops and had in the final days of his tenure tried to salvage his political fortunes by turning the heat on his boss.
 
No Clear Campaign Role
 Mr. Bush passed Mr. Sununu over for a departmental Cabinet position or an ambassadorship, posts for which he was considered virtually unconfirmable because of his sour relations with Congress.
Mr. Bush also declined to guarantee Mr. Sununu even a ceremonial role in the 1992 campaign team. This omission seemed to signal the President's wish to remove the chief of staff from his inner circle entirely at a time when Mr. Bush is increasingly eager to recover from a drop in his public approval ratings.
"Thank you from the bottom of my heart for your distinguished service," Mr. Bush wrote in his letter. "I look forward to working with you in the future."
Returning to the White House, Mr. Bush praised Mr. Sununu for making his departure "a class act."
Asked whether Mr. Sununu would work in Mr. Bush's 1992 campaign effort in New Hampshire, where he was Governor in the 1980's, the President replied: "You bet."
Mr. Sununu won his White House post in no small part because of his role in engineering Mr. Bush's comeback primary campaign in New Hampshire in 1988. Mr. Sununu tried to keep his tone upbeat, signing off his letter with the words, "It really has been great!!!"
But beneath that was a subtle defiance as Mr. Sununu blamed his problems on "distorted perceptions" and seemed to make one last attempt to shed the abrasive image he had acquired as a chief of staff supervising a Presidential legislative strategy that relies primarily on partisan dueling and vetoes of bills passed by the Democratic-controlled Congress.
In doing so, Mr. Sununu, as he has done before, seemed to be trying to shift responsibility away from himself and toward Mr. Bush.
The circumstances of Mr. Sununu's resignation, which had been the subject of heated speculation for days in Washington, were as extraordinary as the public spectacle of his prolonged political death throes.
It was not clear why Mr. Bush did not name a new chief of staff today. It was also not clear whether Mr. Cheney would accept the post, if asked.
Mr. Sununu leaves a post that always has been shaped more by its occupants than by any job description, but is among the most powerful positions in Government. He was Mr. Bush's gatekeeper, controlling access to the Oval Office and reviewing all paperwork reaching and leaving Mr. Bush's desk. Mr. Sununu sat in on most major policy discussions and has been the President's top adviser on many domestic policy and political matters.
 
Actions Aboard Plane
 Mr. Sununu gave Mr. Bush his four-and-half-page resignation letter, which was handwritten on White House stationery, and Mr. Bush wrote a reply as the two huddled in Mr. Bush's stateroom aboard Air Force One on the way from Andrews Air Force Base near Washington to Bradenton, Fla.
There, Mr. Bush went about a visit to the Tropicana orange juice plant without betraying any sign of the events aboard his plane, brushing off a question about Mr. Sununu with a brusque, "I'm here to learn about oranges."
As Air Force One flew from Bradenton to Meridian, Miss., Mr. Bush's letter was typed by a secretary. But he still said nothing as he toured the Peavey Electronics guitar factory.
A few seconds after the President's motorcade sped out of the plant gates, White House staff aides rushed into a makeshift newsroom at the plant and distributed copies of the two letters.
In his letter to Mr. Bush, Mr. Sununu said he wanted to thank Mr. Bush "for the fun we have had these last three years."
Mr. Sununu continued: "And I would never want to not be contributing positively, much less be a drag on your success."
Mr. Bush credited Mr. Sununu with a major role in passing the Clean Air Act, this year's civil rights measure, a law on Americans with disabilities and the budget agreement.
Mr. Sununu's political problems began shortly after he arrived in Washington. By the time he resigned, stories were rife about the fear with which he was treated by subordinates, who often accused him in private of meeting their suggestions with scorn.
The uproar over the 1990 budget deal, in which Mr. Sununu was seen by many Republican lawmakers as a malevolent influence, exacerbated Mr. Sununu's troubles. In the same fashion, he was badly wounded by disclosures of his extensive use of military aircraft for personal and political trips.
More recently, Mr. Sununu was blamed for the lack of direction in Mr. Bush's domestic policy staff, which was unable for months to present the President with a consensus about what he should do to spur the economy.
Then Mr. Sununu committed what many in Washington considered the unpardonable sin: he made his boss look foolish by saying that Mr. Bush had "ad-libbed" a remark about lowering credit card interest rates, when in fact the comments had been written into the President's speech.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John H. Sununu returning to the White House yesterday with President Bush after resigning as the White House chief of staff. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A1); President Bush talking to workers as he toured a Tropicana plant in Bradenton, Fla., after receiving the resignation of John H. Sununu. (Associated Press) (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: SUNUNU, JOHN H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; SKINNER, SAMUEL K (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN SUNUNU (74%); DICK CHENEY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



128 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-18
 
ANOTHER U.S. HOSTAGE IS FREED
Alann Steen was freed after nearly five years of captivity in Lebanon, and there were reports that the last American hostage, Terry A. Anderson, could be freed today. A1
Mr. Steen's family has grown and changed in his absence. A10
Iran asserts pledge on hostages. A11
 
U.S. MOVES TO MEND ISRAEL TIES
As Arab delegations arrived in Washington for peace talks with Israel, the Bush Administration moved on several fronts to repair frayed relations with Jersualem. A3
Israel prepared to start a settlement where snipers killed two Jews. A3
 
AS RUBLE FADES, DOLLAR IS KING
The ruble, now worth a little more than a penny, is fading as fast as the Soviet Union itself. Everyone in Moscow wants dollars, a fact that many, particularly the older generation, find painful and embarrassing. A1
 
GORBACHEV WARNS OF CHAOS
While Ukraine reveled in its freshly affirmed independence, an unusually dejected President Gorbachev issued a grim warning to his compatriots of the fate they faced if the Soviet Union fell apart. A18
Ukrainian villagers see no conflict with Russia. A18
 
MAXWELL EMPIRE SHAKEN
Bankers for the London-based publishing empire of the late Robert Maxwell said the debts of its family-owned businesses were far greater than estimated, raising the prospect that the family would lose control of its vast holdings, including The Daily News in New York. A1
 
RULING ON HAITIAN EXODUS
A Federal District Court in Miami ordered U.S. officials to devise new procedures to assure that no Haitians with a legitimate fear of persecution are sent back. A6
 
KHMER ROUGE LEADER TO RETURN
The Khmer Rouge leader who was attacked last week by a revenge-seeking mob in the Cambodian capital said he would return under stronger official protection. A7
 
MANDELA: LIFT SANCTIONS SLOWLY
Nelson Mandela told the United Nations General Assembly that the remaining sanctions against South Africa should be relaxed in three phases linked to a political process ending white minority rule. A9
 
Troops backing a former military ruler seized Togo's premier. A8
Japan moved a step toward allowing military forces abroad.A5
Some U.S.-Japan economic differences may be irreconcilable. D1
Kenya's leader explained his decision to allow multiple parties. A17
Britain is digging in its heels on key proposals for European unity. A12
An aide to Chancellor Kohl resigned over German arms shipments. A18
 
National A20, B12-15
 
SUNUNU STEPS DOWN
John H. Sununu resigned as White House chief of staff after months of bruising political attacks in which he had become the symbol of increasing disarray in President Bush's domestic policy team. In submitting his resignation, Mr. Sununu said he had feared he would become "a drag" on the President's 1992 campaign. A1
In departing, Sununu took an oblique swipe at Bush. A1
News analysis: Clearing the decks for the '92 campaign. B13
 
GRAY SKIES, BRIGHTER HORIZON
The chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers acknowledged that the economy was worse than he had expected, but said he foresaw improvement by spring. B13
 
OHIO'S DAY IN COURT
In a case involving the leaky Fernald nuclear weapons plant near Cincinnati, the Supreme Court heard arguments on whether the Energy Department should pay fines for radioactive and chemical pollution. A20
 
OUT OF WEDLOCK
The Census Bureau reported that increasing numbers of new mothers around the nation were unmarried and that the trend was particularly marked among teen-agers. A20
 
DAY 2 IN PALM BEACH
The woman who has accused William K. Smith of raping her was "hysterical" after the incident, the friend whom she summoned to the Kennedy estate testified. A20
 
'WE'RE ONE PEOPLE'
A representative of the Chukchi people of the Soviet Union visited a northwestern Alaska port to sign an agreement of cultural cooperation with Eskimos that is expected to bring the long-isolated Chukchi further into the global mainstream. B15
 
BIG RECALL BY G.M.
General Motors said it would recall every Chevrolet Corsica and Beretta built from 1988 through 1990 -- a total of 830,000 cars -- to replace defective seat-belt parts that could cause injury in an accident. B14
 
Noriega trial judge considered a mental exam for Lehder. B14
 
Education B16
 
Yale University is debating the costs of academic excellence.
The government plans to issue new rules on minority scholarships.
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
CURBING RISE IN FARES
By shifting money from the commuter railroads, transit officials propose to limit the increase in the New York City subway and bus fares. A1
 
Neediest Cases B8
 
Business Digest, D1
 
The Living Section C1-14
 
Raising the stakes for New York wine. C1
Made in Vermont: myths you can eat. C1
Kitchen Bookshelf. C1
Health Page C19
 
U.S. DROPS AIDS RULES
 
The Federal Centers for Disease Control is dropping its plan to list procedures that health workers infected with the AIDS virus should not perform. A1
Personal Health: teaching children to behave. C19
 
Arts/Entertainment C20-28
 
Film: "Kafka." C21
Music: Cherkassky piano recital. C21
Word and Image: Book Notes C21
An update on research into mental disorders. C21
Suspense novels set in Moscow and Washington. C25
Gumbel signs new contract with "Today." C26
 
Sports B17-23
 
Baseball: Bonilla gives Mets new outlook. B17
Bronx kid makes very, very good. B18
Basketball: Nets beat 76ers. B21
Orangemen rout Seminoles. B21
Columns: Anderson on Bonilla. B17
On Baseball. B18
Football: Jets' Young looking forward to playing again. B22
 
Obituaries D24
 
W. R. Stephens, political leader and Arkansas investor
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
Editorials A26
The President's man.
In Ukraine: Ban The Bomb.
Tuberculosis counterattack.
Topics: Insuring charities.
Letters A26
Anna Quindlen: Trials and truth. A27
Francis M. Bator, Robert Solow: Two ways to wake the economy. A27
Stanley Weintraub: Three myths about Pearl Harbor. A27

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seeking to speed the end of South African apartheid. A9 (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); UKRAINE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOGO (79%); KENYA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); UKRAINE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOGO (79%); KENYA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); GERMANY (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOSTAGE TAKING (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); GENOCIDE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (83%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICS (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (61%); PEACE PROCESS (57%); PUBLISHING (51%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



129 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: 'Pit Bull' at the White House Falls Victim to His Own Role

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
No one expected John Sununu to go gently. And he didn't.
As his final act, the man hired by George Bush to be his political hatchet man took a swipe at the boss. 
 In comments with a pointed subtext in his resignation letter, Mr. Sununu conveyed a sense of betrayal because, in many ways, he was doing exactly what Mr. Bush had hired him to do. The departing chief of staff was also obliquely reminding the President that this was not a matter of principle, but of ratings; his bullying tactics had been fine as long as opinion-poll ratings did not go down.
 
A Sardonic Offer of Help
 "I assure you that in pit bull mode or pussy cat mode (your choice, as always), I am ready to help," Mr. Sununu wrote.
His reference was sardonic. He had called himself "a pussy cat" and kept what looked like a plush cat on top of the bookcase in his large West Wing office. But, at close range, it was clear that the toy animal was really a tiger, and that is how Mr. Sununu saw himself.
As he stated his credo in his first month in Washington: "I don't care if people hate me, as long as they hate me for the right reasons."
When he boarded Air Force One in Meridian, Miss., on a Presidential trip today, after his resignation was made public, Mr. Sununu was asked by reporters if he would be involved in Mr. Bush's re-election campaign. He used the question to suggest that his services were critical in turning around the 1988 election for a boss who likes to keep his hands clean.
"Maybe I'll do to whoever runs what I did to Dukakis in 1988," Mr. Sununu said, in a sharp reference to his no-holds-barred effort in the general-election campaign to destroy Michael S. Dukakis's reputation as a competent Governor of Massachusetts.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Sununu formed a close bond in the snows of New Hampshire, when Mr. Bush saw his dream to be President melting away after a humiliating showing in Iowa.
"Whatever they did in Iowa, they will not reject George Bush in New Hampshire," Mr. Sununu vowed, as he dragged Mr. Bush down from his elite perch to start what he called a "see me, touch me, feel me" campaign. He encouraged Mr. Bush to ride a snow plow and wander around Nashua, shaking hands and offering to help skeptical motorists dig out their cars.
On the surface, they seemed an odd couple -- one tall, slim and patrician, the other short, pudgy and middle class; one well-groomed, the other often slightly disheveled, with his shirttail hanging out; one polite and conciliatory, the other rude and contentious.
But on matters of politics, George Bush and John Sununu were not so oddly matched. Mr. Sununu embodied the barbed-wire side of Mr. Bush's politics; in many critical ways, he was an accurate reflection of the way Mr. Bush believed that things should work.
In the 1988 campaign, Mr. Bush conceded in interviews that he had to do some of the dirty work in attacking Mr. Dukakis. But as President, Mr. Bush preferred to farm out to aides the duties of bully and gunslinger. He was prone to play Henry II of England, going off to Camp David or staying above it all when dirty work had to be done, murmuring something to the effect of: "Who will free me from this turbulent priest?" Mr. Sununu would, just as Lee Atwater, Mr. Bush's bare-knuckles campaign manager, once would.
 
Playing the Bad Cop
 For example, Mr. Sununu, plying his own conservative agenda, was happy to play the bad cop to Mr. Bush's good cop on volatile issues like abortion and the environment. The responsibility for conservative moves was laid to Mr. Sununu, even though Mr. Bush shared those positions.
When Mr. Sununu screamed at shocked House Republicans about why they had to support the Administration's bipartisan budget agreement, including unpalatable tax increases, Mr. Bush would sit silently watching, never telling his chief of staff to stop bullying the Congressmen.
By making the abrasive former Governor of New Hampshire his chief of staff, Mr. Bush hoped that he could keep a certain balance of rough and smooth in his governing and in his politics.
In the many times over the last three years when Mr. Sununu helped land the President in the political soup, the Washington cognoscenti speculated that Mr. Bush was keeping his chief of staff out of loyalty for helping him win the New Hampshire primary, or because Mr. Bush was too nice to fire anyone, or because he was too indecisive.
The truth is more complicated, and Mr. Sununu put his finger on it today. While Mr. Sununu's lack of political skill in dealing with political Washington eventually cost him his job, and while his fatal flaw may have been in believing that he was smarter than George Bush, the chief of staff was, often in an inept way, trying to fulfill the mandate he had been given.
When Mr. Bush became President, he gave Mr. Sununu the job as chief of staff for several reasons: He wanted to repay him, he wanted to please the conservatives and he wanted to show his campaign chairman and best friend, James A. Baker 3d, that he was in charge. Mr. Baker, who had been credited with helping to save Mr. Bush's flagging campaign, had recommended a power-sharing arrangement among top White House aides that would have given some authority ultimately held by Mr. Sununu to others.
Mr. Sununu was not proclaimed a failure from the start. Indeed, in a May 1990 cover story called "Big Bad John Sununu," Time magazine said: "Sununu has emerged as Bush's most inspired choice for any senior post. His brisk certainty and willingness to take bold stands complement his risk-averse boss."
 
A Harvest of Bitterness
 But in many critical ways, Mr. Sununu exacerbated Mr. Bush's limitations, rather than making up for them, and whenever the spotlight swung away from foreign affairs, it became painfully apparent that this was a White House without a long-range agenda, without a communications strategy and without first-rate thinkers in many top jobs. "John Sununu and a thousand interns," went the joke among White House officials disgusted with the lack of exchange in ideas and with Mr. Sununu's need to surround himself with people who would not challenge his authority.
But while he accumulated more power than had any chief of staff since H. R. Haldeman in the Nixon years, Mr. Sununu started sowing the seeds of his own destruction early on by flouting Washington's tribal conventions.
Just as Sherman Adams and Donald T. Regan before him, he failed to realize that in the political capital, it is not so much what you have done wrong as whom you have offended and that it is not so much what you have accomplished as how you have operated.
Mr. Sununu went out of his way to make clear that he was not following the James Baker model for chief of staff: schmoozing and flattering.
When he bashed House Republicans at private dinner parties long after the first budget deal had been defeated, he ignored the fact that members of Congress do not think of themselves as "insignificant," to use the word that Mr. Sununu once applied to Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi.
When Mr. Sununu denied Defense Secretary Dick Cheney a Presidential helicopter for a trip to Camp David, he did not realize that he might need defenders some day on the issue of government travel.
As Mr. Bush tried to be the ultimate Washington insider, the chief of staff alienated Congress, Cabinet members, House Republicans and members of the he press, who disdained Mr. Sununu because they believed he misled them. He even tried to manipulate his boss on occasion, with the effect that Mr. Bush looked weak and waffling.
In the October 1990 budget deal negotiations, Mr. Sununu tried to sway Mr. Bush in the direction he wanted him to go, opposing any increase in the tax rate for the wealthy. He instructed Marlin Fitzwater, the Presidential spokesman, to tell reporters that Mr. Bush had acquiesced with some Senators who had suggested that there be no increase in the tax rate, even though Mr. Bush had not, and he told a group of businessmen that the President had decided this, as well.
When Mr. Bush repeated, the following day, that everything was "on the table," he looked foolish, as though he were flip-flopping. He was very angry at Mr. Sununu, one senior Bush aide said, who added that the President yelled at his chief of staff in the Oval Office and then stormed out, slamming the door.
And, in the recent fiasco about ceilings on credit card interest rates, Mr. Sununu did something that is never done in a city that operates strictly on hierarchy: He blamed the mess on his boss, going on television to say Mr. Bush had "ad libbed" the idea in a speech.
And so, finally, Mr. Bush invited Mr. Sununu to resign.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John H. Sununu boardgin Air Force One yesterday before submitting his resignation to President Bush. (Associated Press) (pg. B12)
 
Chronology: "Sununu's Troubled Tenure"
 
1988
November: President-elect Bush picks Gov. John H. Sununu of New Hampshire as his White House chief of staff against the advice of some top advisers, who critize Mr. Sununu for being arogant and abrasive and unfamiliar with key leaders of Congress. Leaders of some Jewish organizations point out that he had once been the lone opponent of a National Governors' Association resolution condemning the United Nations for equating Zionism with racism.
 
1990
 February: Leaders of eight environmental groups write to President Bush complaining that Mr. Sununu intervened to weaken Administration policies on global warming, wetlands protection and legislation to strengthen the Clean Air Act.
 October: During marathon negotiations over the deficit-reduction accord, Mr. Sununu not only manages to annoy Congressional Democrats, he also infuriates many Republican members.
 
1991
 April: The chief of staff finds himself at the center of a new political squall over his personal and political trips on military aircraft, including ski trips and trips to the dentist.
 May: President Bush orders Mr. Sununu to clear all future flights with the White House counsel in advance and bans the use of military aircraft for most of Mr. Sununu's political and personal travel.
 June: Mr. Sununu's travel practices again draw fire when he uses a Government limousine to take him to a New York stamp auction and do personal errands, and when he solicits American companies to give him use of their corporate jets for personal an dpoltical trips.
 The White House imposes new rules requiring Mr. Sununu to arrange travel for political purposes through the White House Office of Administration. Mr. Sununu acknowledges that his travel habits had created the "appearance of impropriety" and expresses regret.
 November: As President Bush's political ground becomes shakier because of a souring economy, Mr. Sununu is the center of several controversies: abrupt cancellation of the President's trip to Asia; a furor about a call for lower interest rates on credit card debts that was inserted at the last minute into a speech for the President; and concern that Mr. Sununu intends to keep tight control over the President's 1992 re-election campaign.
 Dec. 3: Mr. Sununu resigns. (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: MERIDIAN, MS, USA (54%); NASHUA, NH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MERIDIAN, MS, USA (54%); NASHUA, NH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS CATS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); WILD CATS (74%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; SUNUNU, JOHN H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN SUNUNU (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



130 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
Fewer Mothers Married
Nearly a fourth of the women who gave birth last year were not married, according to Census Bureau numbers. Page A20.
 
Conflict at Rockefeller U.
 Dr. David Baltimore was brought in to renew Rockefeller University, but found he couldn't withstand a pair of controversies. Page B1.
 
Yale Examines Excellence
 At Yale University, a budget debate has raised a profound question: how much academic excellence can the university afford? Page B16.
 
The Sticky Differences
 There is a growing belief that some economic differences between the United States and Japan may be irreconcilable. Page D1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (65%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (92%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (65%); UNITED STATES (50%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CENSUS (85%); BUDGETS (83%); 

PERSON: DAVID BALTIMORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



131 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: 2 Bronx Men Are Charged With Murder In Death of 4

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Two Bronx men were arrested yesterday and charged with the execution-style murders of two children and two women in a Brooklyn apartment Saturday night, the police said.
One of the women and one of the children "just happened to be visiting," said Capt. Richard Ward, commander of Brooklyn's 12th Detective Division, when the killers forced their way into the apartment, took one woman into one bedroom, the other woman and the children into another bedroom, and then fired more than 15 shots. 
 "Apparently this was a dispute over missing money," Captain Ward said. "They were trying to find out who was responsible for the stolen money. That's as clear as we can give you as far as the motive is concerned."
On Sunday, the day after the bodies were found in the wood and stucco Tudor-style apartment building at 927 East 35th Street in Flatbush, Captain Ward had said the victims "were not bound, but they were shot in the head, which indicates that the persons who committed this crime wanted to insure that they had killed everybody."
 
Arrested at Their Homes
 The suspects were identified as Robert Dystont, 26 years old, of 2970 Laconia Avenue, and Rohan Maragh, 27, of 854 East 214th Street, both in the Williamsbridge section of the Bronx. Mr. Dystont, who described himself to the police as a self-employed music promoter, and Mr. Maragh, who is unemployed, were arrested at their homes before dawn yesterday.
They were each charged with four counts of second-degree murder in the deaths of 11-year-old Nadia Williams; her 14-year-old cousin, Damali Pournall; Sharon Robertson, 24, and Pauline Henry, 35.
Nadia, who was the daughter of Ms. Robertson's estranged boyfriend, lived with Ms. Robertson in the two-bedroom apartment where the shootings occurred. Damali lived with her mother about a dozen blocks away on Nostrand Avenue, and was visiting her cousin. Ms. Henry, a resident of the island of Jamaica, had been visiting Ms. Robertson for about a week. Ms. Robertson was a part-time waitress and a student at Baruch College.
The suspects, Captain Ward said, "were targeting Sharon Robertson; she was the person they felt knew who stole the money."
Captain Ward said "a substantial amount of money" had been stolen from Mr. Dystont several days before the murders. "We haven't identified the persons who took the money, but we believe that that's what the suspects were doing at the crime scene," he said, "trying to find out who took the money."
The captain said investigators were led to the suspects through a witness and physical evidence. He would not gave any information about the witness, but said the physical evidence included four handguns found at Mr. Maragh's apartment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAMAICA (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; FLATBUSH (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); JAMAICA (67%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MURDER (91%); ARRESTS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EVIDENCE (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); HEAD INJURIES (67%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; DYSTONT, ROBERT; MARAGH, ROHAN; WILLIAMS, NADIA; POURNALL, DAMALI; ROBERTSON, SHARON; HENRY, PAULINE

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



132 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: NEW PLAN ORDERED ON HAITIAN EXODUS

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 3

 BODY:
In a ruling that maintains a temporary ban on the forced repatriation of Haitians fleeing their country, a Federal District Court in Miami tonight ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to devise new procedures to screen refugees and assure that no Haitians with a legitimate fear of persecution are sent back.
The decision, which Justice Department and immigration officials said would immediately be taken to the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta, orders the Government to submit a screening plan for Haitians in American custody within seven days. Many of those involved left their Caribbean country and ventured to the United States in small, rickety boats. 
 The ruling makes no provision for further refugees to enter the country. But it suggests that the number of Haitian refugees will continue to grow. Some of those being held are on United States Coast Guard vessels and some are at a refugee center at the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
The decision was issued by Judge C. Clyde Atkins after a day of deliberation. He rejected one of the Government's central arguments -- that because Haitians were plucked from international waters, they had no right to protection under American laws. The ruling also rejected arguments that the United States could no longer shoulder the burden of the Haitian refugees.
 
Refugees at Greater Risk
 Judge Atkins wrote that the Haitian plaintiffs had shown that the "threatened injury" of their return "outweighs the potential harm an injuction would cause defendants."
The Justice Department, other than saying it would appeal, had no immediate comment on the ruling.
Expressing satisfaction over the ruling, Ira Kurzban, a lawyer with the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, which brought the case, said he had been able to show that the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Coast Guard had carried out a 1981 repatriation agreement with Haiti in a way that "deprives Haitians of their rights."
Mr. Kurzban said that American officials who interview the refugees to determine who is eligible to apply for political asylum should first be educated on conditions in Haiti, and that "artificial limits" on the length of the typically brief screening process should be lifted.
Besides the courts, the argument over the refugee issue is likely to be carried on in Congress, where immigration advocates are expected to press for some form of temporary protected status for Haitians, allowing those who have fled the strife in their country to remain in the United States until the situation in Haiti returns to normal.
 
Center to Be Expanded
 While the issue works its way through the legal and political system, pressure on the Coast Guard, whose ships patrol the Caribbean, and at the Guantanamo Bay base is likely to increase. More than 4,000 boat people from Haiti are now being temporarily housed at Guantanamo.
Last weekend, more than 400 Haitians heading for the United States were rescued by Coast Guard patrols, bringing the total number saved since the current refugee exodus began on Oct. 29 to more than 6,300.
Although Haitians have sought to reach the United States by boat for years, there had been a lull in recent months before the current rush, which began a month after the overthrow of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the elected civilian President.
To accommodate the rise in refugees, the Navy announced Monday that it was expanding the size of the Guantanamo center to accommodate as many as 10,000 more refugees.
The urgency of a solution to the refugee crisis was underscored by the Bush Administration's decision to have the Solicitor General, Kenneth W. Starr, argue the case.
 
U.S. Government's Arguments
 During a tense session of oral argument on Monday night, Mr. Starr urged that there be no extension of the restraining order. It was scheduled to expire at 5 P.M. today.
"It is 'we the people' who are protected by U.S. law," said Mr. Starr, who argued that the court had no jurisdiction in the case. "We do not see fit to protect everyone, no matter how moving their case may be, outside our territorial limits."
Mr. Starr said delaying the return of the refugees in United States custody sends a "false beacon of hope which could result in a human disaster" if yet greater numbers of Haitians are encouraged to attempt the perilous 700-mile sea journey.
The Haitian Refugee Center's lawyers argued that shipboard interview procedures used to winnow out those with a legitimate basis for seeking asylum, from those thought to be economic refugees, were deeply flawed.
Many of those who would be returned under existing procedures, they said, had a well-founded fear of persecution.
Jocelyn McCalla, director of the National Coalition for Haitian Refugees, who toured the Guantanamo Bay base over the weekend to gather depositions for the case, said, "Most of the Haitians that we interviewed said that the army had either gone on a rampage and destroyed their house, or that they had lost a brother, sister, father or mother."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CUBA (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) US COAST GUARD (56%); US COAST GUARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) US COAST GUARD (56%); US COAST GUARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; MIAMI (FLA); FLORIDA UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CUBA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (93%); REFUGEES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (74%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (73%); NAVIES (69%); POLITICS (61%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



133 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Fee Proposal Attacked at a Landmarks Hearing

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Rather than cut 10 more employees from its already depleted staff, the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission has proposed raising $300,000 by imposing work-permit fees for the first time in its history.
But the plan was attacked yesterday at a commission hearing as a suicidal measure that would undermine any future regulation and designation efforts. 
 A steady stream of preservation leaders, neighborhood organizers and elected officials warned the commission that such fees would amount to a tax on the very property owners whose cooperation is essential in maintaining the 19,000 structures covered by landmark or historic district designation.
"Charging fees for the privilege of being regulated is political suicide," said Anthony C. Wood, a preservationist in Manhattan.
Permit fees would range from $25 for minor work on a protected structure to $1,500 for major work. There would be a $25 application fee in all cases.
Such fees would tempt many more landmark owners to violate the law by undertaking work without coming before the commission, opponents of the proposal said. It would also make it far more difficult to muster popular support for prospective designations.
"The imposition of fees would spell doom for our communities as it relates to historic preservation," said Councilwoman C. Virginia Fields, a Democrat from Harlem, where broad designation efforts are under way.
Jeffrey A. Kroessler of the Queensborough Preservation League said, "I'm telling you now, if these fees are adopted, you'll never see another designation in Queens."
Not one speaker among 42 favored the fees as proposed, and the commission voted to continue taking public testimony next month.
Laurie Beckelman, the chairwoman of the commission, said she shared many of the opponents' concerns. But now, she said, $300,000 must be found to satisfy the city's Office of Management and Budget.
The commission staff has been cut to 58 from 79 in the past year and a half as a result of the city's economic distress, Ms. Beckelman said. "You can't cut any more," she said. "It's below the bone. Once you cut any more, you have to evaluate whether New York can afford a landmarks commission."
In a search for more revenue, other city agencies have raised the cost of parking, ballfield permits and pool hall licenses.
 
The Highest Fees
 For landmark owners, the highest permit fees would apply to major work requiring a Certificate of No Effect (meaning that the work does not affect protected features) or a Certificate of Appropriateness (meaning that the planned changes are deemed appropriate to the landmark or historic district).
Many speakers urged that money be raised by collecting fines for violations. To do that, however, the commission must go through Criminal Court. At the most, it can collect $1,000 from an owner who has undertaken major work without approval.
"It's not expeditious to go after people in court," Ms. Beckelman said.
Charging that the fee proposal is "a violation of the public trust," Councilman Alfred C. Cerullo 3d, Republican of Staten Island, said he will introduce a bill tomorrow that would transfer the power to establish fees to the City Council, which would presumably be loathe to enact them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING HISTORIC SITES (92%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HISTORY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (71%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



134 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
For One Brooklyn Gang, Restoration Is the Cause

BYLINE: By Douglas Martin

 BODY:
PETER ROMEO took his daughter to the carousel in Prospect Park one sunny day last summer. He noticed an old building nearby. It was the Lefferts Homestead, a 200-year-old house that combines Dutch Colonial and Federal details to quite pleasing effect. Too bad the architectural treasure was falling apart.
Mr. Romeo also focused on the people pulling weeds. They looked like farmers, but said they were volunteers -- a vague concept to this energetic lighting entrepreneur who routinely puts in 17 hours a day. 
 The self-described "doctor of socketology" greeted Vivienne Shaffer, who works as the homestead's director. She offered a tour, and Mr. Romeo was mightily impressed by the antique lighting fixtures. But not their wretched condition.
He immediately offered to restore them for nothing. "You will?" Ms. Shaffer sputtered. "You mean that?"
Thus began a remarkable episode in volunteerism. Not only did Mr. Romeo refurbish exquisite chandeliers and lamps, he got some Brooklyn friends to help with other chores. Mr. Romeo has lured some two dozen businesspeople to pitch in, with more help still materializing.
"It's snowballing," exuded Tupper Thomas, the Prospect Park administrator.
Government and foundations and seemingly almost everybody who once wrote checks to make the world a better place are taking troubling steps backward in these mean and penurious times.
So enter the little guys, led by a 51-year-old scrambler who grew up playing stickball on the streets of Bensonhurst, got a tattoo on Coney Island at 18, and has been through bankruptcy and a bitter divorce without anyone much in evidence to care. Real life.
Mr. Romeo did it because real people need parks most. "We've got millions of people crammed into this city," he said. "The only relief the lower class has is a park."
He raised the donations from salt-of-the-earth types like himself. Sal Raio, for one. Talk about honesty. Mr. Romeo, over a year's time, took a Cadillac, Mustang and Lincoln to Sal's Transmission on Neptune Avenue thinking each needed a new transmission.
Mr. Raio said the Cadillac instead needed a vacuum hose; the Mustang had a slight problem with its linkage, and the Lincoln required a distributor adjustment. Mr. Romeo -- who says the price for all the repairs was, maybe, that of a nice lunch -- had expected to pay $1,500.
He returned the favor by arranging for free lighting fixtures at Mr. Raio's shop. When Ms. Thomas said she wanted a van for volunteers, Mr. Romeo turned to Mr. Raio, who had not been in the park since grade school.
"Sal, you know me, I know you, trust me, go with me on this," Mr. Romeo said.
The transmission man eased into gear, and proceeded to rebuild completely a 1983 Dodge van. A $15,000 value, easy.
"It's just something I wanted to do," he said. "I feel good about doing it."
Mr. Romeo has long believed that people must do more than the minimum, starting at home. He has personally decorated landings on each floor of his high-rise apartment building in Sheepshead Bay.
His competence comes from the school of hard knocks. He was almost killed by a runaway blimp while in the Navy, he has delivered packages, programmed computers, and watched a gift shop he owned financially disintegrate.
Perhaps most relevant to his fund-raising skill, he once collected bills for a loan company. Relentlessly. "When I think of the things I should go to hell for, that's one of them," he said. "I have this habit of overachieving."
For two decades, he has owned the Lamp Doctor, a store specializing in lamp restoration and antique shades on Coney Island Avenue. The recession's bite has had the bittersweet effect of giving him time to volunteer.
Tomorrow, Parks Department poobahs will hold a ceremony to honor him and his unlikely band of modern-day Medicis. But Mr. Romeo's sprightly mind is already on his next volunteer effort. He longs to spruce up Coney Island's defunct parachute jump. "The ultimate lamp," he calls it.
His inspiration is a vanished Coney Island, the one in a fraying photo he shyly displays. In front of a gleaming 1957 Ford and the boardwalk, a young Mr. Romeo poses with a blond woman whose name he thinks was Debbie.
"We can send men to the moon, and we can't bring back Coney Island?" he asked with refreshing incredulity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; PROSPECT PARK (NYC); LEFFERTS HOMESTEAD (BROOKLYN, NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; ROMEO, PETER

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



135 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Independent Ukraine Keeps Sight of Cooperation

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOYARKA, Ukraine, Dec. 3

 BODY:
The backyard roosters glared and crowed proud as ever this morning but seemed no match for the residents of this dirt-road hamlet as they took stock of the stirring new notion of an independent Ukraine being recognized as such by other nations.
"So, Yeltsin recognizes Ukraine as free?" said Vera Melnik, a pensioned grandmother, focusing on the really important piece of the news about recognition from abroad. 
 This was not the Polish and Canadian declaration, nor the White House plans, but the far more impressive nod here from Boris N. Yeltsin, the President of the giant neighboring Russian republic, who recognized that Russia and Ukraine, steady as the centuries, still need each other.
 
Facing Reality
 "Yeltsin pays us a compliment, perhaps, but he also admits to reality," the apple-cheeked woman said in the biting cold whipping down the mud lane called Sakhalin Street.
"We're at the very bottom now," said her friend, Antonina Khomenko. "The goods began disappearing from our stores with Gorbachev and his perestroika. So of course Russia needs Ukraine -- that's where Gorbachev has his dacha."
Both women laughed at the mild joke about Russian imperialism as they stood stoutly bundled against the first flakes of snow on an iron-gray day.
Over the centuries far too many ties have grown between the two republics to ever be sundered by the collapse of the Communist Soviet Union after a mere seven decades. The women were amused that the "catastrophe" that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev keeps warning about could ever arise in this small village cut close to the woods and farmlands that roll south of Kiev toward Odessa.
 
Family Ties
 Both Ukrainian, the two women told of complicated family ties of Ukrainian and Russian blood and marriage, of trade and education, of border traffic and intuitive tolerance. They spelled out in human terms how the two republics together accounted for about 70 percent of the economic output and population of the collapsed union, and aim to do even better under free-market independence.
"Like my sister always says, 'How can we live without the Russians?' " said Miss Khomenko. "We're not used to separation."
"It's like a big family," said Mrs. Melnik, including the full range of family animus and affection in her simile. "Smart members know it doesn't pay to cheat, but the wise course is to treat the people well."
 
Importance of Image
 A neighbor, Tatyana Kristal, walked by with her 6-year-old daughter on the way to one of the small brick houses packed together neat and close as the two-story hamlets of Queens County, New York.
"Kravchuk is a cunning person and that's a natural feature," she said. She spoke as a Russian married to a Ukrainian, one who appreciates some card-shark values in Leonid M. Kravchuk, the newly elected Ukrainian President and former Communist leader, whom the people are pleased to find vying with Mr. Yeltsin in presidential imagery and republic one-upsmanship.
"Our politician should be as cunning as theirs," said Mrs. Kristal, speaking as a Ukrainian. "Let Ukrainians and Russians sell their goods to each other and keep their profits to themselves, and not for the center."
 
Wrestling With Bureaucracy
 She touched on what so far seems an emotional point almost as moving to Ukrainians as the idea of independence -- the end of the dictate and economic parasitism long enforced by the now-dying central Government.
"Put yourself in this small town, 800 kilometers from Moscow, and having to go to them in Moscow to get a simple road built," said Anatoly Boyko, a retired schoolteacher, clearing brush from his patch of garden.
He grew angry in the cold thinking about what Ukraine inherits from the necrotic center: "They leave us with not a fork, not a pair of socks to be found in the Government shops, but with all their ministries in Kiev mimicking the center, with 17 sets of deputies and subdeputies all wanting to keep feeding off of us."
Villagers here, like city-dwellers in Kiev, dismissed speculation that, with the center gone as dictatorial referee, independence will mean economic warfare between Russia and Ukraine. Mr. Boyko focused his resentment on the "colonialists" of the center rather than on the Russian people.
"Intellectuals tried to reduce us to the level of the Russian bear versus the Ukrainian fox, but ordinary people don't talk that way here," said another Ukrainian, Anatoly Kozy. "We're well aware that our problem was the state and not the Russian people."
Still, Mr. Kozy said it would be hard for Russia in general, and perhaps the new Yeltsin Government in particular, to get rid of the ancient empire mentality in a new rage of independence. "For this, Ukrainians themselves must learn that they had a highly cultured civilization, centuries before they joined with Russia," he said.
 
Keeping Eye on Russia
 One diplomat who has been watching Ukraine engineer its independence feels the republic already showed a healthy spirit of conciliation toward Russians and every important group, during the highly successful election campaign for the referendum and presidency.
"All the politicians had a Pole, a Jew, a Russian on their staffs, and they really made a point of showing this to the public," the diplomat said.
But while talking of independence, Ukrainians keep an eye on Russia.
"Actually, this country has only started to move away from a slave mentality," said Les Tanyuk, a political intellectual in the parliamentary opposition to President Kravchuk. "Its provincialism manifests itself acutely in dealing with Russia."
Perhaps, but here in this backwater town all the talk and hope about independence focuses not so much on the psychological baggage of the past as on the shabbily stocked shops of the present. When they met in the street, Vera Melnik and Antonina Khomenko were thankful that the recent long milk lines had disappeared and that good loaves of crisp Ukrainian bread remained at hand.
 
Days of Plenty
 "In the old days there was plenty and we'd go into the woods there to eat and drink and dance," said Mrs. Khomenko, gesturing toward the soothing darkness of the pine, oak and moutain ash trees standing nearby.
"Oh, the vodka you could get then," she recalled, suddenly dropping talk of independence to recall the old Soviet center at its heights in meeting consumer cravings.
"Nowadays, when someone can get his hands on a bottle of vodka, he sneaks off deep into the forest so no one sees him and he drinks it alone, as if this were a funeral," said Mrs. Khomenko, and the laughter of the two women carried into the woods.
"But the most important thing in all this is not to hurt the people, right?" she asked her friend and Mrs. Melnik agreed as they tried to look ahead at independence.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Ukraine basked in the recognition of its independence, shoppers in Kiev waved their coupons as they vied to buy butter at a state store. (Associated Press)
 
Map of the Soviet Union showing location of Boyarka.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; UKRAINE (USSR); RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR) UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); POLITICS (70%); MARRIAGE (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



136 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Made in Vermont: Myths You Can Eat

BYLINE: By MARIALISA CALTA

DATELINE: MONTPELIER, Vt.

 BODY:
FOR the purposes of statehood, Vermont was born on March 4, 1791, in Windsor. But for marketing purposes, Vermont was born on Nov. 11, 1984, in Manhattan, at the third annual Gourmet Products and Tabletop Show.
That's as far as Jerome Kelley is concerned, and he should know. As director for marketing with the Vermont Department of Agriculture, Mr. Kelley seven years ago shanghaied a motley assortment of specialty food producers and trekked with them to New York to help them display their wares, thus becoming midwife to the birth of a marketing concept that some artisans and specialty food producers call "Vermont Inc." 
 That's the Vermont of purity, wholesomeness, rural values, tradition, self-reliance, trustworthiness, simplicity, honesty, hard work, environmental awareness and closeness to nature, which residents and visitors alike described in interviews with the State Agency of Development and Community Affairs for a 1986 survey on the image of Vermont. For many, the report concluded, "experiencing Vermont becomes a religious experience: oneness with nature, oneness with self, oneness with the universal life force."
That's the Vermont that produces not only such native products as maple syrup, cheese and apple cider, but organic sauerkraut, ginseng honey, raspberry vinaigrette, jalapeno sauce, coffee blends, organic beef, chocolate truffles, pate, horseradish jelly, organic baby food, creme fraiche, flavored mustards, salsa, farm-raised quail and dog biscuits made with (among other things) whole wheat flour, wheat germ, brewer's yeast, honey and Brazil nuts.
The Vermont mystique has been bottled, bagged and stuffed into cute little canning jars to create a cash crop that brings in an estimated half-billion dollars to the state each year. The number of specialty food producers has grown from about 15 in 1984 to over 200 today. After the Gourmet Products and Tabletop Show of 1984 came other shows, and Vermont products soon began showing up in such New York emporiums as Dean & DeLuca, Zabar's, Balducci's and Bloomingdale's. "We were the first state to ever have a special food promotion at Bloomingdale's," Mr. Kelley said with obvious pride. "They had done France. Why not Vermont?" Why not indeed? "It's as if people are nostalgic for a past they never even had," Mr. Kelley said. "It's as if every American feels like a Vermonter at heart."
Rod Clarke, a former journalist who now runs a public relations and political consulting firm in Vermont, puts it another way. "I once heard someone suggest a T-shirt," he said. " 'Vermont: America's Pet.' "
But the image can't get too cute or too cosmic for Mr. Kelley, a native of Vermont who in 1978 took a job with its state government after retiring from a career in publishing and advertising in New York. "Vermont sells," Mr. Kelley said, "and I sell Vermont."
Tom Slayton, editor of Vermont Life (published by the state's development agency), dryly describes his job as "keeper of the sacred myths." He ascribes Vermont's cachet to the pastoral ideal, which he said has been alive since ancient times. "The Greeks called it Arcadia, and it embodied the idea of an idyllic, open farmland where man lived close to nature but still in control," Mr. Slayton said. "The bigger the city, the bigger the dream.
"Of course it's a little unreal. We have crime here, and poverty, and economic and social stress. But people still think of Vermont as a place where good people do good things in a good way."
Frank Scalzo, dairy director for Mrs. Gooch's, a chain of natural food stores in the Los Angeles area that regularly stocks about 15 Vermont-made products, said: "Vermont is perceived as clean, and natural. It's everything California wants to be and can't, because we're too smokey and crowded."
But, as the saying goes, what does that have to do with the price of eggs? Or, to be more exact, the price of goat cheese, salsa, pasta or barbecue sauce? As it turns out, just about everything.
"I'm convinced that when people go home and buy our product, they're eating their memories," said Roberta MacDonald, vice president of marketing for the Cabot Farmers' Cooperative Creamery. She said 95 percent of Cabot's customers in New England have visited Vermont. The appeal of the state, she said, is that "we're so bloody small and so ripe with history."
Alan Parker, special projects manager for Ben & Jerry's Homemade Inc., the ice cream manufacturers based in Waterbury, said: "There is an ache for our rural past that goes beyond nostalgia. I think that people feel there's something missing in general in the path their lives are taking, and images are part of the way we try to reclaim what is lost."
Artisans and, in particular, specialty food producers, are helping with the images. Herds of smiling cows, flocks of happy geese and pleased-looking pigs parade across boxes, cartons and bags along with, perhaps, a picture of the producer, or his or her grandmother, or staff. A small card displayed with jars of Green Mountain Gringo salsa, for example, announces that the product is made by "seven of the most energetic, hard-working, dedicated, fun-loving salsa makers in the world."
Vermont labels are rife with such phrases as "all-natural," "organic," "pesticide-free" and "homemade." Jams contain "100 percent pure Vermont maple syrup" or "pure Vermont honey." Flours tend toward the "stone-ground" and "whole grain." Labels are hand-lettered or, through the magic of high-tech graphics, at least look it.
"Vermont is prescriptive" Ms. MacDonald said. "It's good for you. People definitely get the feeling they are doing something good for themselves when they buy products made here."
Some of these good-for-you, made-in-Vermont products are not actually made in Vermont. Or even near Vermont. A soda manufacturer, for example, was investigated by the State Attorney General's office for representing as a "Vermont all-natural soda" a beverage manufactured and bottled in New Jersey. A salad dressing producer agreed to eliminate the word "Vermont" from her labels when it was found she was making the stuff in Maine. A third company, Vermont Maple Orchards and its parent company, Borden Inc., paid $150,000 last year in costs and restitution for selling Canadian syrup in packages that, said Elliot M. Burg, an Assistant Attorney General, a "reasonable consumer" would assume was produced in Vermont.
The reason why some producers want to use that "made in Vermont" label is because "made in Vermont" translates into higher prices at the cash register. In a specialty store, a Vermont-made product can easily retail for 15 to 20 percent more than a comparable product that is mass produced, said Nick Greene, president of Unifood Marketing of Augusta, Ga. In a grocery store, however, a Vermont-made product can only command perhaps 5 percent more to remain competitive with less expensive, brand-name labels.
"Vermont products have a value-added aspect," said Mr. Greene, who represents several Vermont food producers, placing them in specialty stores and membership clubs.
And most Vermont food producers feel that the words "Vermont" or, perhaps, "Green Mountain" do add value to their product. Brian Tyrol, of Vermont Distillers in Waterbury, for example, said he knew from the start that he wanted "Vermont" on the company's labels, even though it manufactures such un-Vermonty products as gin and vodka. "Vermont conjures up images of a pristine countryside and an honest, uncomplicated lifestyle," Mr. Tyrol said. "Never mind that I find my life about three times more complicated than it ever was when I lived in New York City."
He and the co-owner, Steve Israel, went back and forth over the names "Vermont Distillers" and "Vermont Distillery," eventually deciding on the former because they wanted the emphasis, Mr. Tyrol said, "to be on the people, not the machinery."
"Vermont is personal," he added.
Then there are Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield, who, with their pictures on their ice cream cartons and the slogan "Two Real Guys" are about as personal as it gets.
Of course, Ben or Jerry might be too busy these days to come to the phone. But other Vermont businesses do live up to the warm fuzzies of their packaging. If you call the number on the jar of Vermont Harvest Strawberry Amaretto Conserve, for example, you are likely to speak with company founder Patty Girouard, who began by cooking her sauces on her kitchen stove and still develops new products there. Call Brian or Steve, who put their signatures and phone number on the Vermont Distillers bottles (their motto: "Who ARE these guys?"), and you are likely to talk to Brian or Steve.
Moreover, in aligning itself with such issues as saving the rain forest and family farms, helping the homeless and promoting world peace, Ben & Jerry's has spearheaded the list of Vermont companies that have become socially active, which has the added value of making customers feel not only pure and natural, but politically correct as well.
Community Products of Montpelier, a company founded by Mr. Cohen that uses brazil nuts and cashews from the Amazon rain forest, donates 60 percent of after-tax profits to rain forest survival and other social causes. Food 2000, also in Montpelier, donates money and jars of its Chili 2000 (vegetarian and all-natural) to nearby food banks. Moon Over Vermont All-Natural Rainforest Dog Biscuits, (their motto: "Loving Our Pets and Our Community") of Westford dedicates 10 percent of company proceeds, according to the label, to "buying back the rain forest."
Next summer, at the International Fancy Food and Confection Show in Washington, Vermont producers will run a total of 42 booths. Vermont will have the largest representation of any state and more than a number of foreign countries.
"That's because we're Vermont," exulted Mr. Kelley. "And Vermont sells."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vermont marketers are selling Vermont wholesomeness in items like ketchup, on sale in a California store. (pg. C1) (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times); "Vermont sells, and I sell Vermont," said Jerome Kelley, director for marketing for the state's Department of Agriculture.; At Cold Hollow Cider Mill in Waterbury Center, Vt., Eric Chittenden sells a diverse selection of products made in Vermont. (pg. C6) (Photographs by Paul Boisvert for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERMONT UNITED STATES (99%); VERMONT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FOOD MFG (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PET FOODS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); BEEF (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); BABY FOODS (72%); MEATS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (66%); WRITERS (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (54%); 

PERSON: CALTA, MARIALISA

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



137 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: As Annual Price War Begins, Caviar Business Is in Turmoil

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
THE cold war may be over but the annual caviar war is flaring up again. Macy's and Zabar's are sniping at each other's bottom lines on beluga. In the next few weeks, the price for a 14-ounce container of this most prized grade of sturgeon eggs is likely to fall well below last year's price of just under $400.
This year, there is also plenty of undercover maneuvering worthy of John le Carre. The breaking up of the Soviet Union has thrown a once orderly business into turmoil. Lack of central government control there has opened the door for all kinds of entrepreneurs: on the fishing boats, in the processing plants and in the marketplace. 
 In this country, caviar peddlers, like mercenaries in a guerrilla skirmish, are out in force, circumventing the traditional tightly controlled avenues of caviar export. These are mostly Russians who have obtained tins of caviar in the Soviet Union and have gone into business for themselves.
A number of American and European importers and dealers have been approached about entering into joint ventures to produce caviar in Russia. Mats and Dafne Engstrom, the owners of California Sunshine, a food importer and distributor in San Francisco, have already started one with a group of Russians to produce caviar in eastern Russia, not the Caspian Sea, the traditional source of sturgeon caviar.
Even the Federal Food and Drug Administration is getting into the act. The term "fresh caviar," meaning unpasteurized, may no longer be permitted under the new food-labeling proposals, said Mary Snyder, chief of policy guidance in the agency's seafood office. "Our definition would not allow caviar to be labeled fresh because it is not entirely unprocessed," she said. "It has been salted."
Since 1965 most of the Russian caviar exported to Europe, the United States, Canada and Latin America has been bought through agencies in Hamburg, Germany, and in Switzerland.
"We have been paying in Deutsche marks for caviar since 1965," said Gerald Stein, the president of Iron Gate, Macy's main supplier. "And until the Shah of Iran was overthrown, the caviar business was pretty orderly. It gradually began to break apart in the 1980's and now it has become very factionalized."
For example, Murray Klein, one of the owners of Zabar's, at 80th Street and Broadway, and that store's caviar maven, said peddlers have been showing up on his doorstep regularly for the last year. "But I won't buy from them," he said. "What they are bringing me is half the price and I don't trust it. Fresh caviar is perishable and you can't just carry it around in a suitcase."
What the peddlers often bring him is 95-gram tins (about three ounces) of caviar. These have been available fairly regularly in recent months in shops in Brighton Beach, a Brooklyn neighborhood that is home to many Soviet emigres. The writing on the tins or jars is only in Cyrillic. The F.D.A. requires that the labeling be in English.
The consumer is taking chances by buying this caviar, not only because of the conditions of transport and storage but also because it may not be of the quality reserved for export. But this "peddlers' caviar," which a number of importers say has been more available worldwide this year than ever before, amounts to a small fraction of the estimated 150 tons of caviar exported from Russia every year.
Total American consumption is estimated in the industry to be about 40 tons a year, as it has been for the last decade. About a thousand tons of Russian caviar is produced annually from the Caspian Sea.
The best caviar, usually reserved for export, is processed at sea on factory boats as soon as the fish are caught. The rest is sent to processing plants on shore to be tinned or jarred and, usually, pasteurized. Some dealers say that a small amount of Iranian caviar, which is allowed in Europe but not the United States, makes its way into the Russian caviar pipeline.
"A lot of caviar is laundered in Germany," Dafne Engstrom said. She suggested that counterfeit tins are being produced in Europe to be filled with lesser quality caviar and passed off as top quality Russian.
Obviously, you don't need Russians hiding jars of caviar under their fur hats to make this business rife with innuendo. Take the pronouncements from Caviarteria at 29 East 60th Street in Manhattan, for example. The store insists that it does not deal in "salty leftovers from previous years, substitution of lesser grade caviars, mixed or blended caviars or mislabeled Chinese caviar."
Bruce Sobol, the president of Caviarteria, is quick to suggest that some of his competitors misrepresent what they carry or sell caviar that has been sitting in warehouses for a year or more. He said that he is visited by peddlers on a fairly regular basis but that he refuses to deal with them because he believes that their goods are inferior. Other dealers, of course, insist that their businesses are above reproach.
One thing most dealers do share is concern that without Soviet Government controls on production, and with small fishermen going into business for themselves, the overall quality of caviar may suffer, as it did in Iran when the Shah fell.
Armen Petrossian, the president of Petrossian, an importer based in Paris, expects a six-month shakeout period in the caviar business in Russia. "We will undoubtedly see more profit-sharing by the producers and the republics," he said.
Everybody's main concern is for the quality. "It's an important export and they had better see that quality is maintained," said Hossein Lolavar, the president of Epicurean International, an importer in Rockville, Md.
All this means that it makes sense for consumers who can afford the indulgence of sturgeon caviar to buy with care. And there is a range of choices.
The most prized caviar is fresh Caspian Sea beluga, the variety with the largest eggs and the most delicate flavor. It is also the most expensive, adding to its cachet. In most instances, the price of beluga this year is 10 to 20 percent lower than last year. But the reduction has nothing to do with any changes in the system, increased entrepreneurship or even the recession. It simply reflects greater availability of the largest eggs compared with 1990, when there was a small catch.
Fresh osetra, the medium-size eggs that are often grayish or brownish and have a distinctively nutty or earthy flavor, now range from about $140 to just under $400 for 14 ounces. Sevruga, the smallest grade, with a firmer egg and a slightly sharper flavor, ranges from about $110 to about $260 for 14 ounces.
Prices for fresh osetra and sevruga are about the same this year as last year. Many connoisseurs prefer these grades to beluga, which they regard as overpriced and less distinctive tasting.
When buying fresh caviar, buy only the amount you will use in one sitting. An unopened tin should be kept in the coldest part of the refrigerator, preferably sitting on a frozen gel pack, and used within a month. Once opened, it should be eaten that day. But leftovers can be kept a couple of days in the refrigerator in the original tin with a piece of plastic wrap on top.
 
FROM OTHER REGIONS
 THERE are a number of other options besides unpasteurized caviar from the Caspian Sea.
Fresh Chinese caviar, with beluga-size eggs and a gray-green color, is about one-third the price of Caspian Sea beluga.
California Sunshine's Tsar Nicouli beluga, with a delicate flavor but a firmer texture than typical beluga, comes from eastern Russia. The company will not be more precise than that about its source.
American sturgeon caviar, which is similar to sevruga and has been improving in quality and consistency, now sells for about $12 to $15 an ounce, almost the same price as imported sevruga. Fresh salmon caviar, with large eggs that taste briny, is $2 to $5 an ounce.
This year several dealers, among them Caviarteria, Caviar King and the Collins Caviar Company in Chicago, have introduced trout caviar. It is the same color as salmon caviar but has a slightly smaller egg and is not as sticky. The price is about the same as salmon caviar.
Pasteurized sturgeon caviar, heated quickly to make it shelf-stable and packed in vacuum-sealed jars or tins, has a less delicate texture and flavor. It is sold in one- to four-ounce jars for about half the price of fresh caviar. It should be refrigerated upon opening.
Pasteurized American sturgeon, salmon, trout and golden whitefish caviar are also available. Collins Caviar, which specializes in caviars from the Midwest, even sells whitefish caviar spiked with chili peppers. -- FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
GOLDEN EGGS
 HERE is a list of caviar stores, with the price of a 14-ounce container of beluga:
CALIFORNIA SUNSHINE, 144 King Street, San Francisco, Calif. 94107; (800) 553-0224. Russian and American sturgeon, salmon; beluga is $491.
CAVIAR DIRECT at Butterfield Market, 1114 Lexington Avenue (78th Street), New York, N.Y. 10021, or by mail-order; (800) 472-4456, in New York (212) 402-6900. Beluga is $385, $495 by mail.
CAVIAR KING, 47-39 49th Street, Woodside, Queens, N.Y. 11377, (800) 654-7264; in New York State, (718) 784-3344. Russian, Chinese and American sturgeon; beluga $300 to $540.
CAVIARTERIA, 29 East 60th Street, New York, N.Y. 10022, (800) 422-8427; in New York State, (212) 759-7410. Russian and American sturgeon; beluga is $695 to $1,000.
COLLINS CAVIAR, 925 West Jackson Avenue, Chicago, Ill. 60607; (312) 226-0342. American sturgeon, no beluga.
IRON GATE PRODUCTS, 520 Baretto Avenue, the Bronx, N.Y. 10474; (800) 992-2842. Russian, Chinese and American sturgeon; beluga is $392.
MACY'S HERALD SQUARE, (212) 560-4181. Russian, Chinese and American sturgeon, whitefish; beluga is $440.
PETROSSIAN, 182 West 58th Street, New York, N.Y. 10019; (800) 828-9241. Russian sturgeon, salmon; beluga is $982 for 500 grams (18 ounces).
ZABAR'S, 80th Street and Broadway in Manhattan; (212) 787-2000. Russian, Chinese and American sturgeon and whitefish; beluga is $445.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Changes in the Soviet Union complicate the caviar business at stores like Macy's, above. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CAVIAR; PRICES COLD WAR (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (76%); FOOD LABELING (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); PRODUCT LABELING (64%); JOINT VENTURES (52%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



138 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Food Notes

BYLINE: By Florence Fabricant

 BODY:

Food From Afar
One of the year's more engaging cookbooks, "The Ellis Island Immigrant Cookbook," did not come off the slick presses of a big publishing house but grew from two years of loving effort by Tom Bernardin, who compiled and published it himself. 
 Mr. Bernardin, an entrepreneur and a former English teacher, worked as a guide at the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island for several years. He decided to collect recipes by people who entered this country through Ellis Island. His search was announced two years ago in about 400 newspapers nationwide, and he is still receiving recipes in the mail.
The recipes in the spiral-bound book and the text of accompanying letters from immigrants and their descendants were left essentially unedited. Some are highly professional, like the recipes from Jim Fobel, a cookbook author and cooking teacher whose grandfather arrived at Ellis Island from Finland in 1904.
Others are sketchy, like Jacqueline A. Frost Deasy's lamb and macaroni dish from her Greek grandfather, who also arrived in 1904; it calls for a leg of lamb, any size, and a smidgen of oregano, among other ingredients. Some recipes require expertise, and others, like Deana Solomon's meatball soup from her Turkish mother, are simple and inviting.
The book also has a history of, and a guide to, Ellis Island. It can be ordered for $15.95 plus $3 for shipping ($2 per book for more than three books to the same address); New York State residents must add sales tax. The address is Ellis Island Immigrant Cookbook, Suite 2306, 175 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
A Patisserie Spreads
 Patisserie les Friandises, 665 Amsterdam Avenue (92d Street), has just opened a second shop at 972 Lexington Avenue (70th Street). It is larger than the Amsterdam Avenue store and has a few cafe tables in addition to the bakery counter.
Jean Kahn, the owner, studied with Gaston Lenotre in France. Both shops carry her varied line, from simple, earthy bran muffins ($1 each) to fancy pastries like the luscious caramelized tarte tatin on a buttery pastry base ($9.50 for six-inch; $19 for eight-inch). Lavish seasonal items like buche de Noel and croquembouche will be available for Christmas.
 
A Hunt to the Finish
 Last week, Giovanni Piermadini's dog, Diana, lived up to her namesake, the Goddess of the Hunt. She cornered her prey in the woodlands near Asti, in northern Italy. When Mr. Piermadini captured it after an hour and a half of digging, it was indeed a prize: a white truffle that weighed 850 grams, or nearly two pounds, and was about the size of a cantaloupe.
The truffle was flown to New York and is now at Balducci's, 424 Avenue of the Americas (Ninth Street), where it is priced at a mere $5,500.
Louis Balducci, the merchandise manager of the store, estimated that the truffle could be shaved over pasta or risotto for 100 to 120 people. He added that Bruno Urbani, the store's truffle dealer in Italy, said it was enough for only 85.
The truffle's shelf life, before it begins to shrink from loss of moisture, is about 10 days.
As for Diana, she got her favorite treat: a bowl of biscotti (cookies, not dog biscotti).
 
Help by the Butter People
 Land O Lakes butter is operating a toll-free holiday baking service to answer questions and give tips about baking. Home economists from the company's test kitchen will answer the phones from 9 A.M. to 7 P.M. Eastern time every day through Dec. 22. The number is (800) 782-9606.
 
Gingerbread Architecture
 Building gingerbread houses will be the subject of a two-day workshop taught by Bianca Borges Henry, a professional baker, at Peter Kump's New York Cooking School, 307 East 92d Street, on Friday from 6 to 9 P.M. and Saturday from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.
Participants will learn how to make a simple gingerbread house that even children can handle, and a very complicated one. The class costs $240. It will be repeated on Dec. 13 and 14. Reservations: (212) 410-4601.
The New School culinary arts program has a workshop on Saturday from 9:30 A.M. to 12:30 P.M. on making buche de Noel, the French yule log cake. The class, taught by Lisa Montenegro, costs $70 and will meet at the Culinary Center of New York, 100 Greenwich Avenue (10th Street). Registration: (212) 229-5690.
Breathtaking cake decoration is the stock in trade of Colette Peters, the author of "Colette's Cakes: The Art of Cake Decorating" (Little, Brown; 1991). She will give a three-hour class on the subject at Hay Day, 21 Governor Street, Richfield, Conn., on Dec. 12 from 7 to 10 P.M. The cost is $50. Reservations can be made through Sue Olex at (203) 221-0100.
 
A PUERTO RICAN SAMPLER
 ON Sunday from 1 to 4 P.M., the Brooklyn Historical Society, at 128 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights, will give a program on Puerto Rican food traditions. Yvonne Ortiz, a culinary historian, will explain the history of the island through its food, starting with the indigenous Taino Indians, and will also discuss Puerto Rican holiday cooking. Slides, displays and sample tastings of food will be included.
The museum opens at noon. Admission is $2.50 for adults, $1 for children under 12. There is no extra charge for the program on Puerto Rican food, but reservations are recommended. Call (718) 624-0890.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD PUBLISHING (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL BAKERIES (86%); WRITERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); BAKED GOODS (67%); CHRISTMAS (65%); BAKERIES (62%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



139 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 19; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
Where, Oh Where, Have All the Fans Gone?

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
Through the 1970's and much of the 1980's, attendance figures for Ranger games at Madison Square Garden were pretty predictable: always around 17,500, a near-capacity crowd.
Every seat wasn't always sold and occupied, but most were. And the money was in the bank, often well in advance, earning interest. Then, as now, the National Hockey League was a business based on gate receipts, and business was pretty good. 
 In recent seasons, including this one, attendance figures at the Garden have not always been so healthy.
 
Charting a Falloff
 Although 17,542 attended the home opener with Boston in early October, only 13,269 came for a game against Calgary in early November and average attendance has fallen from 17,402 in 1984-85 to 15,964 last season.
The Rangers aren't the only N.H.L. team suffering a falloff in attendance. Last season, as the nation's recession deeped, the league's regular-season attendance dropped by nearly a quarter-million customers, from 12.58 million in 1989-90 to 12.34 million in 1990-91, a drop of about 2 percent. Through October of this year, attendance has fallen another 1 percent.
"When businesses are going through tough times and people are going through tough times, the entertainment dollar suffers," said John Ziegler, president of the N.H.L.
 
Northeast Hit Hardest
 The box-office problems seem worst in the Northeast, where the recession has been most persistent. The Islanders are down 25 percent, from an average of 11,789 at this time last season to 9,212 so far this year.
The Hartford Whalers' average for the first quarter of the current season is 10,925, compared with 12,014 at the same time last season. The Devils won't provide cumulative figures or comparisons. But they have announced crowds of 11,506, 10,438, 11,551, 11,813, and 10,237 in a building that seats 19,040.
Even the Stanley Cup champions, the Pittsburgh Penguins, are down about 150 fans a game after increasing by $5 the price of every ticket.
Dave Andrews, executive vice president of the Whalers, said that revenues are down substantially in Hartford and that attendance continues to drop in that arena while ticket prices remained the same.
"Over all, we are concerned," he said. "If concern is pessimism, that's a way to look at it. Hockey tickets are not a necessity of life. They are a passion."
Andrews said that two-thirds of the N.H.L. teams made money in 1989-90, the last season for which balance sheets are available. The Whalers don't expect to be profitable this season. "We could lose as much as $5 million, cash," he said.
Hockey teams are trying to adjust to this changing marketplace. For instance, the Rangers are offering partial-season ticket plans for fans who cannot afford all 40 games. They are advertising extensively. They are selling some tickets at a discount.
The Rangers say they aren't worried about selling the $65 seats near the ice or about filling the new high-level suites for the corporate clients who write them off on the expense account.
"We're concerned more with some of the lower-priced seats skewed toward the individual game buyers who reach down into their own pocket," said Kevin Kennedy, director of marketing for the Rangers, whose cheapest seats go for $16.
"You will see, this season, an overall slippage or reduction in total attendance in sports and in entertainment, period," he said.
While that may be so, hockey is unusual among the major sports in that so much of its revenue comes from gate receipts. In fact, this year the N.H.L. suffered a major blow when it signed a $5.5 million television contract with SportsChannel America. Three years ago, the league's television contract brought in more than three times that amount. But television may be causing problems in other ways.
While the other major team sports maintain a strong presence through over-the-air and major cable networks, in many cities hockey appears almost entirely on cable networks and sometimes on cable channels that charge a premium beyond the basic cable fee.
Hockey teams are also leading the major sports in the drift toward pay-per-view telecasting, an even more expensive form of cable. With pay-per-view, a household pays extra on its cable bill -- usually $10 or more -- for a single telecast.
The Minnesota North Stars and the Detroit Red Wings are selling a few games via pay-per-view this season. While this marketing technique can generate quick profits on important games that are in demand, it also eliminates the casual fan who might be browsing through channels and does little to expand the base of fans for the sport.
David Stern, the commissioner of the National Basketball Association, said recently that his sport is discouraging pay-per-view marketing because it keeps the product away from large numbers of fans who might not have access to these viewing opportunities or might not be able to afford them. By contrast, Ziegler, has said repeatedly in recent years that his vision of the future is a "menu in the sky" by which viewers order specific hockey games on pay-per-view.
 
Increase After Merger
 The 2 percent dropoff in attendance that the league suffered last season was the first decline of that magnitude since the league merged with the World Hockey Association in 1979. Since that merger, attendance had generally increased almost every year, from 10.53 million in the first season of the 21-team league to a peak of 12.58 million in 1989-90.
This season, the N.H.L. admits a drop of 1 percent in ticket sales for October, when compared with the same period last season. (November figures will not be available until December. The figures do not include the San Jose Sharks, the expansion team, which has sold out all 10,888 seats at home in the Cow Palace.)
Business remains robust in many cities, particularly in the Western half of the league, where capacity or near-capacity crowds are still the rule in Los Angeles, Calgary, Edmonton, St. Louis, Detroit and Chicago.
While falling attendance would be of concern to any sports enterprise, the trend comes at an awkward time for the N.H.L., which says that between 60 and 65 percent of its revenue comes from ticket sales.
On one hand, the league is trying to negotiate a new collective-bargaining agreement with its Players Association. One of the owners' arguments is that they can't afford the increasing salaries of players, especially if loosening restrictions on free agency causes competitive bidding for labor to further raise wages.
On the other hand, the league is expanding from 21 to 28 teams during this decade. A plea of hard times could make it difficult to entice investors to spend $50 million for an expansion franchise in a gate-receipts league that is losing gate receipts.
But is the league losing gate receipts? Bob Goodenow, the new executive director of the Players Association, said attendance figures could be misleading if the income from rising ticket prices is greater than the money lost from tickets not sold. He said it is tricky to compare different markets so early in the season.
"You can have a huge increase in Minnesota and a huge decrease with the Islanders," Goodenow said. "One reflects a revived market and one reflects a polluted market."
Goodenow said he was cautious about "buying the party line" about box-office woes.
"You keep raising prices, you're going to have a tailoff," he said. "At what point do you hold your prices and try to make up revenues through increased attendance? Are the teams getting calls from people who say they just aren't going to games because they can't afford to?
"If hockey is not an affordable type of entertainment, it's obviously something the league and the players have to be concerned about."
The league office said that the average price of an N.H.L. ticket this season is $23, up from $21 last season. A league official, speaking on the condition of anonimity, said league ticket revenues were up about 5 percent in October compared with the same point last season.
Is affordability a problem? Top ticket prices for the Rangers and for the Los Angeles Kings are $65. San Jose charges $55 and Chicago $50. The Islanders' top price is $35 and the Devils' is $30. The cheapest of the high-end ticket prices is Minnesota's, at $28.50.
Jim Johnson, director of sales for the Islanders, said his team is selling tickets to students for half price for selected games. Johnson said he worries that high ticket prices are costing the league young fans.
 
'Attendance Is Miles Up'
 "People's income has not kept up with the cost of coming to a game," Johnson said. "If you don't have kids and younger people developing an identity with your product, that is your future. When we played over in New Jersey, they had 10,000 people there and 20 percent were for the Islanders. And the Devils are an entertaining team.
"People want to support their teams, but they can't afford it. Anybody in pro sports today who isn't concerned about their attendance five years from now is naive."
Not all executives are so pessimistic. Norman Green, owner of the Minnesota North Stars, said "our attendance is miles up" after his team reached the Stanley Cup finals last spring.
"Our average is up from around 6,000 to around 12,000," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Islanders are drawing 25 percent fewer fans this season than last. Attendance is down in many N.H.L. arenas. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Rangers' Falloff Steeper Than League's" shows attendance at N.H.L. games from '79 to '91; Rangers' percentage of capacity from '79 to '91 (Sources: New York Rangers, National Hockey League)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (86%); CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; PRICES SPORTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SPORTS FANS (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE JOHN K ZIEGLER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



140 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
In the Salary Standings, Mets Making Big Progress

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
The Mets next season will pay Bobby Bonilla, Dwight Gooden and Eddie Murray more money than either the Houston Astros or the Cleveland Indians paid their entire teams this year.
"They'll pay Murray and Bonilla just about more than I'll pay my whole team next year," John McMullen, the Astros' owner, said yesterday, obviously disgusted with the continued escalation of player salaries as exemplifed by the free-agent contracts the Mets have given Murray (two years, $7.5 million) and Bonilla (five years, $29 million). 
 Counting salary and a prorated share of their signing bonuses, Bonilla ($5.8 million), Gooden ($4.9 million) and Murray ($4.1 million) will earn a combined $14,841,667 in their first season as teammates. Only four years ago, in 1987, the Mets' total payroll didn't reach that amount.
Neither did the 1991 payrolls of the Astros and the Indians. Based on average salaries compiled by the Players Association and the Player Relations Committee and made available yesterday, the Astros had the lowest average in the major leagues and a payroll just shy of $11.5 million while the Indians were 25th in average and had a payroll just over $13.3 million.
In 1991, the Mets had the fourth highest average salary on both lists. The labor units of the players and the clubs treat certain payments differently so they compute different averages, with the Players Association almost always slightly higher than the Player Relations Committee.
 
A's Were at Top
 The Mets' average salary was $1,113,446 (players) or $1,106,875 (clubs). It was a club record, but it fell significantly behind the highest-ever average attained, by the Oakland Athletics, $1,394,119 (players) or $1,399,684 (clubs).
The major league average salary as computed by the Players Association was $851,492, a 42.5 percent increase over the 1990 average of $597,537. The average computed by the Players Relations Committee was $845,383, a 43.4 percent increase over the 1990 figure of $589,360. The only previous increase that was bigger came in 1977, the first season that followed the creation of free agency, when the average rose 47.7 percent from $51,501 to $76,066. Bonilla will earn more than that in three days next season.
The Athletics also had the highest average salary last year, but in 1989, it was the Mets who led the salary standings with an $865,741 average. They have taken strong steps to reclaim the No. 1 spot next year.
With Bonilla the richest player in baseball and Gooden and Murray set to earn more than $4 million in 1992, a plateau no one has ever attained in the game, the Mets will have at least five players beyond $3 million, including John Franco ($3,333,333) and Vince Coleman ($3,212,500). They all figure to be joined by David Cone, maybe even Frank Viola.
 
Still Hoping to Sign Viola?
 Al Harazin, the general manager responsible for the spurt of costly economic activity, has told people privately he plans to try to sign Viola, who last April rejected a three-year, $13 million offer. But the Mets have so far taken no steps to implement whatever plan Harazin might have in mind.
Cone, the National League strikeout leader the past two years, is not a free agent but can be after the 1992 season. This would be the time for the Mets to sign him to a multiyear contract, three years most likely, and it could cost them about $4 million a year to do it.
Other players scheduled to earn more than $2 million next year are Kevin McReynolds, Howard Johnson, Hubie Brooks, Sid Fernandez and Tim Burke.
The Mets will try to trade McReynolds to get the pitching help they need. They also won't mind shedding his $3,416,667 salary,
Also on his way out is Dave Magadan, who earned $1.25 million this year. It's not known what kind of trade value Brooks has left, but the Mets will try to send him away because they won't want to pay a pinch-hitter $2,316,667.
 
'Another Level'
 Late in the season the Mets talked to Johnson's agent, Jim Krivacs, about a possible contract extension. Johnson has one guaranteed year at $2,266,667 and an option year left.
"We kind of let it go after one meeting," Krivacs said. "It was just too close to this time of year. We wanted to see what Bonilla was doing. Obviously what happened yesterday sets some market value. When we talked, they looked at some of the top players in the game, but we knew we were probably going to another level and that has happened."
The Mets signed Coleman as a free agent a year ago because they had lost Darryl Strawberry as a free agent and they felt the need to fill the offensive void somehow. Before that four-year, $11.95 million signing, they basically eschewed the free-agent market, very occasionally signing a Bill Almon or a Mike Cubbage.
Now Harazin has changed the Mets' approach, spending lots of money on free agents and even departing from so-called club policy to give Bonilla five years.
"When you set out to get Bobby Bonilla in this circumstance," Harazin explained, "it was pretty obvious early on we weren't going to be successful unless we went to a fifth year. That was wrenching for us. But to get a player we wanted badly, we had to bite the bullet on the fifth year."
It was a silver bullet Harazin hopes will turn to gold.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Bonilla Becomes King of the Hill" lists highest paid players in baseball

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (93%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (93%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CONTRACTS; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS) WAGES & SALARIES (93%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ATHLETES (73%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; BONILLA, BOBBY ROBERTO MARTIN ANTONIO 'BOBBY' BONILLA (94%); DWIGHT EUGENE GOODEN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



141 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Can Yale, With Budget Troubles, Still Be Great?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
A few days after classes started last September, hundreds of Yale University students held a rally at Beinecke Plaza and ceremonially ate cake in mocking protest of a money-saving decision to end freshman dinner in the Commons dining hall, a move they said would cheapen the quality of life at Yale.
Today, such concerns pale in light of much deeper reductions under review at Yale. The university is running an $8.8 million deficit, its first deficit in 11 years, and financial projections for the coming decade are so bleak that Yale plans to reduce the scope of its scholarly endeavors by paring, and possibly eliminating, several academic departments, including linguistics, sociology and engineering. The specific cuts, under study for months, are expected to be made public in the next few weeks. 
 Adding to the campus tension are rancorous labor negotiations with non-teaching staff and a move by graduate students to form their own union. All in all, faculty members and students say they are apprehensive about the university's ability to support the standards of excellence it has worked almost 300 years to attain.
"The greatness of this university is at risk in the decisions we are now making," said Michael Holquist, a professor of comparative literature.
 
Anxiety Reflected Elsewhere
 Yale's anxiety reflects uneasiness on most college and university campuses, where changing finances are challenging standards of excellence. In essence, most colleges and universities, even the big, powerful and well-endowed ones like Yale, are being forced by budget problems to concede that they can no longer be all things to all people, their unspoken goal for decades.
Last month, a group of 26 professors at Columbia University protested further budget cuts in the arts and sciences by threatening to resign their positions as department chairmen. Washington University in St. Louis has eliminated its sociology department and its dental school. Stanford University in Palo Alto, Calif., Howard University in Washington and Tulane University in New Orleans are among the private institutions undergoing the equivalent of an intellectual CAT scan to assess their academic health. Big publicly supported universities like the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Oregon have also begun self-examinations.
The squeeze comes from reduced income from endowment investments and cutbacks in Federal spending for research contracts, on the one side, and on the other, from increased costs for maintenance of buildings, medical benefits for employees and financial aid for students.
Tuition -- averaging around $20,000 at many elite universities -- has hit a psychological ceiling beyond which it can be raised only by small increments, not enough to cover rising costs.
 
Position to Weather Storm
 There is no need to start passing the cup for Yale just yet. With its $2.6 billion endowment, its rich alumni -- like the Bass family of Fort Worth, who in the last year have donated $80 million -- and its elevated standing in American higher education, Yale is in a strong position to weather the coming decade.
In some ways, though, Yale is in a more difficult position than other major universities and under more pressure to reconcile its spending. Yale's singular problem is its urgent need to rebuild and repair buildings that until recently had been ignored.
Yale has 197 buildings spread over New Haven. Many are old, some of their roofs leak and most are energy-inefficient. Over the years, university officials tended to keep an ivory-tower view of expenditures. They put money into academic programs and generally left mundane matters like gutters, roofs and windows for another day.
Under A. Bartlett Giamatti, who served as president of Yale from 1978-86, the university began making some repairs. But now, the university plans to spend $1 billion over the next 10 years to renovate its physical self, allocating an increasing portion of its nearly $800 million annual budget to building repairs. Student and faculty critics do not dispute the need for such work, but say the administration may have overstated the case. At a series of crowded faculty meetings this semester, professors argued that Yale is swerving too far toward repairing its offices and classrooms, at the expense of academic pursuits.
"The decision to engage in a major program of deferred maintenance and new capital investments in structures is something that can be questioned," said Willem H. Buiter, professor of international economics. "We are substituting, as people put it, bricks for bodies, but I don't think the greatness of the university is measured by the quality of the bricks in its buildings."
But administrators, led by Benno C. Schmidt Jr., the 49-year-old president of Yale, insist that history will judge them harshly if they put off the needed repairs any longer.
Mr. Schmidt, who as long as two years ago was speaking about falling masonry and leaky pipes, is intent on adopting what he calls "a disciplined vision of excellence."
The cuts made so far, like the Commons dining schedule and elimination of the varsity wrestling and water polo teams, may affect the quality of undergraduate life in New Haven but few critics argue that they cut into Yale's academic standing.
But there has also been a 5 percent to 15 percent across-the-board reduction that has forced libraries to close earlier and some classes to grow. In the English department, for instance, the average size of discussion sections has grown to 25, as against 20 in previous years.
And, most critically, a committee of faculty and administrators has been working since last February on a complete self-examination of Yale, trying to lay out in detail the university's strengths and weaknesses, identifying its essential parts and targeting those that are expendable.
When the committee releases its report sometime in the next few weeks, it is expected to recommend the reduction and possibly the elimination of entire departments. Sociology, linguistics and engineering are rumored to be on a hit list. Other departments will also be asked not to fill faculty openings, or otherwise to shrink.
After hearing the committee's recommendations, the president, the provost and the deans will decide, probably early next year, which changes will be made.
 
A Big Gamble
 Mr. Schmidt admits that Yale is taking a big gamble. "I am very much aware that, yes, there is an inescapable risk of making decisions that in the light of the evolution of knowledge in the future may be short-sighted," he said in an interview in his office just off Beinecke Plaza.
Rushing from one set of meetings to another, he looked haggard but he forcefully argued that Yale had to change. "To do nothing also is to take a great risk that could lead to creeping mediocrity," he said.
Although there are few signs of turmoil on the New Haven campus, the student paper, The Yale Daily News, is filled almost daily with the latest rumors about the restructuring committee's secret work.
"The talk at all the dining room tables is that the university is changing, and not for the better," said Michelle Maldonado, a junior from Puerto Rico who is majoring in psychology. "It's a little depressing."
Kyu B. L. Rhee, president of the Yale College Council, the undergraduate student government, is angry because students have been left off the restructuring committee and effectively closed out of that important process. Faculty, too, have been suspicious; many point out that the committee contains no representatives from the departments of sociology, linguistics or engineering.
"We're apprehensive," said Laurence Horn, chairman of the linguistics department. "We're not entirely certain that the decisions are being made with the full knowledge of what these programs contribute to the university."
Some members of the faculty are uneasy with the administration's message that Yale can no longer afford to be all things to all people and must become smaller.
"Simply being smaller," said Gaddis Smith, a professor of history and director of the Center for International and Area Studies, "in itself is not exactly a vision of greatness."
One member of the restructuring committee, Donald M. Engelman, said that all those concerned were being careful to remain objective.
"It's a very tough business," said Professor Engelman, chairman of the molecular biophysics and biochemistry department who will be filling in as dean of Yale College next year. He said the committee was considering several options, including eliminating departments when current faculty members leave or retire, which would avoid the need for layoffs, or merging two departments for greater efficiency. "The hope is that we will end up being not less excellent but less ambitious in scope," he said.
 
Protest Planned
 Yale's turmoil is further complicated by the expiration, on Jan. 17, of its contract with more than 3,500 clerical and technical employees and by attempts by graduate students to form their own union. To make their point, graduate students planned a protest for today in which about 1,000 of the 2,000 graduate students will refuse to teach their classes.
The rumors and the angry confrontations have made Yale a turbulent place this year. But there is a growing sense that this is an important moment in Yale's history and that the intensive self-examination will lead to a university that will be either stronger or weaker, but certainly different.
Perhaps no one is more aware of this than Mr. Schmidt, whose reputation as president may be determined by the outcome. He has considered the possibility that, if his calculations are wrong, and his decisions not the right ones, he could be known as the president who loosened Yale's grip on excellence.
"I'd much rather take that risk," he said, "than instead to preside over a kind of slow deterioration of the excellence of this place."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Benno C. Schmidt Jr., president of Yale, admits there is a risk in making cuts. "I'd much rather take that risk," he said. (Stephen Castagneto); Yale University is running an $8.8 million deficit this year, its first in 11 years. Students protesting cutbacks in food service last September took brown-bag lunches to a rally at Beinecke Plaza, where a 60-year petition marked a path tothe dining hall. (Susan Castagneto for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); MISSOURI, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (50%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); MISSOURI, USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (73%); LITERATURE (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); DENTISTRY (62%); INSURANCE ENDOWMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY ROBERT BASS (58%); LEE BASS (58%); SID BASS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



142 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: In Arctic, Warm Reunion Ends Cold War Division

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KOTZEBUE, Alaska, Dec. 1

 BODY:
Last August, six wooden boats carrying residents of Uelen, at the northeastern tip of the Chukchi Peninsula in the Soviet Far East, sailed across the Bering Sea into this northwestern Alaskan port that is home to about 2,700 Eskimos.
The Chukchi passengers came to attend a trade fair and sell some of their coveted scrimshaw and other art works. But, said Yuri Tototto, a former deputy of the region, sometimes called Chukotka, to the Congress of Peoples Deputies in Moscow who is director of the Association of Chukotka Native Businesses, every third or fourth Chukchi ended up discovering an Alaskan relative. 
 "It was one big family gathering," Mr. Tototto said. He visited Kotzebue (pronounced COTS-eh-boo) again this weekend, this time to sign a formal agreement of cultural cooperation with Alaskan Eskimos that is expected to bring the long-isolated Soviet Chukchi further into the global mainstream.
"We're one people, one culture, one tradition," said Nina Vaal, the Chukotka region's minister for culture and native affairs, who also signed the documents.
The two main ethnic groups in Chukotka are the Chukchi and Eskimos, but a long history of intermarriage has blended the two.
On the Alaskan side, the chief groups are Inupiat and Yupik.
 
A Long History
 From both sides Eskimos crossed back and forth over the Bering Sea by kayak or over the ice for centuries. In the 18th and 19th centuries, activities of the Russian-American Trading Company, a czarist fur trading entity similar to the Hudson's Bay Company, further stimulated exchanges between these nomadic peoples.
Then in the late 1920's the Soviets consolidated their empire in the Far East, patrolling the international date line and creating an "ice curtain" that is only now starting to melt.
Under the new accord, the Chukotka region is joining Alaskans and other people in northern Canada, Greenland and Scandinavia in sponsoring an international exhibition that will give greater exposure to the artists from the Chukchi Peninsula and provide for even more exchanges with their counterparts in Alaska.
"It removes them from the forgotten status and helps close the circumpolar loop," said Noel J. Brown, North American regional director of the United Nations Environment Program, one of the backers of the exhibition.
The purpose is to show how the 40,000 natives of the 2.5 million square miles of Arctic Circle country harmonize life and art with the flow of nature.
The weekend developments, in which the two Chukotka officials met with leaders here and toured Alaskan Eskimo villages to examine art works, follow an agreement two years ago between President Bush and the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, to allow the native people to travel across the Bering Sea without passports and other bureaucratic formalities.
The thawing of the "ice curtain" has also meant more exchanges in the performing arts. The Kotzebue Northern Light Dancers, who swing arms and pound feet to the beat of drums made from caribou bladders, now have their ranks increased by Soviet Eskimo dancers and drummers from Uelen and Lavrentiya.
Kotzebue radio station KOTZ has become one of the main sources of news for the Soviet Chukchi. It broadcasts Russian-language current events programs twice a week, and Natalie Novik, one of the broadcasters, said the station "has gotten word that the shows are heard 700 miles up the Soviet Far East coast." She added, "There are probably more listeners to this than anything else the station does."
The international exhibition that will give the artists from the Siberian Far East greater exposure is an itinerant show called "Masters of the Arctic," first shown at the United Nations in New York in 1989, that and which heads next year for Mexico City, Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires. It receives its main financing unding from the Amway Environmental Foundation, created by the Amway Corporation of Ada, Mich., which sells cleansing and health-care products in more than 50 countries.
The exhibition curator, Christopher D. Stephens, who has just been appointed Lindsey Fellow of Indigenous Studies at Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, called the Chukchi participation a "remarkable development signaling not only the cultural pride but economic aspirations of this indigenous people."
 
'Share Common Goals'
 He noted that it marked a "new indigenous world order in which governments and private corporations together with circumpolar native peoples share common goals that would have been unthinkable a few years ago."
The region of Chukotka will work closely under the accord with the Northwest Alaskan Native Association, a regional cooperative organized under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971 to guide the economic life of this region.
The association's 4,800 members, almost all Inupiat Eskimos, share in the profits not only of village artistic creation but a wide range of other communal projects, like the Red Dog gold and zinc mine northeast of here and oilfield and food services.
Mr. Tototto said he wants to organize Chukotka along similar lines. What attracts him most about the association's structure, he said, is that "it breaks down the walls of bureaucracy and puts the people in greater control."
Although many of those who live north of the Arctic Circle are known as Eskimos, the term, which roughly means "eaters of raw meat," is considered pejorative in some regions -- though not in Alaska or Siberia.
International organizations and others are increasingly substituting the neutral word Inuit, which broadly means "people."
The meeting here brought former cold war antagonists together. John Schaeffer, a former chairman of the association, had been a major general in the Alaska National Guard. Mr. Tototto served as a commando captain in the Soviet Army Polar Brigade.
But now that is all past. Mr. Schaeffer's son Pete, a vice president of the association, said during the ceremonies that the organization "looks forward very much to cooperating with the Soviet Chukchi."
David Swan from Kivalina, a village northwest of here on the coast, said he thinks the new cooperation is great.
 
Snow-Quilted Houses
 Mr. Swan, a hunter, fisherman and local political leader whose uncle, Clinton Swan, carves ivory and weaves baleen baskets, added: "After 40 years we have relations on both sides that we would like to find out about. This will help everyone."
Kotzebue, the association's headquarters and the urban center for all the villages in the northwest region of Alaska, is a patchwork of snow-quilted wooden houses at the mouth of three rivers, the Noatak, Kobuk and Selawik that drain into Kotzebue Sound. In summer, Kotzebue is a transit point from sea to the hinterland.
In early December, the main activity is generated by snowmobiles either racing for sport on five-foot-thick sea ice or returning from inland hunting trips pulling sled loads of reindeer and caribou carcases.
Though many residents still keep dogs, the snowmobiles, which can cover larger swaths of territory faster than dog teams, have become the preferred mode of transport.
Some of the bigger buildings incorporate spiral refrigeration devices to prevent the permafrost from melting beneath the structures. In Siberia, the bigger structures sit on pilings to avoid melting the top layer of tundra.
Looking at the Alaskan Eskimo homes, Mrs. Vaal, the Chukotka minister of culture, observed: "We have problems in our villages. We need to build new houses."
Asked about the snowmobiles, she said, "Oh, yes, we could use these."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Through a trade fair in Kotzebue, Alaska, the people of Uelen, in the Chukotka region of the Soviet Far East, found many Alaskan relatives. Nina Vaal, the Chukotka region's minister for culture and native affairs, left, examined a walrus tusk with Alice Davis, an Alaskan craft maker. (Elisavietta Ritchie for The New York Times)
 
Map of Alaska highlighting Kotzebue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (66%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (66%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (93%); CANADA (79%); GREENLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: BERING SEA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (91%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; KOTZEBUE (ALASKA); UNITED STATES; ALASKA; CHUKCHI PENINSULA (USSR) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (93%); CANADA (79%); GREENLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BERING SEA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURAL RELATIONS; ESKIMOS MARINE VESSELS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ETHNICITY (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); MARRIAGE (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



143 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Sununu as Symbol;
Departure of Embattled Chief of Staff Removes Convenient Target of Critics

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
By at least indirectly soliciting and then promptly accepting John H. Sununu's resignation, President Bush sought today to halt his slide in the opinion polls, to mute criticism of his domestic and economic policies or lack thereof, and to clear the decks at last for his re-election campaign.
For all Mr. Sununu's reputed arrogance and abrasiveness, for all his carelessness about appearances, even his bitterest enemies conceded that the chief of staff was not responsible for all of the manifold ills that have plagued Mr. Bush recently. But symbols often have to suffice when substantive change is too difficult or too slow in coming, and scapegoats are useful symbols to troubled Presidents. 
 Mr. Sununu was a convenient target. His retention would have attracted continuing criticism to his boss. As he himself said, he "knew the rules of the game" when he came here: the last thing a White House chief of staff can be is "a political burden," a reverse lightning rod that exposes rather than insulates the President.
So he has gone the way of Sherman Adams and H. R. Haldeman and Donald T. Regan, all jettisoned when the Presidents whose doors they guarded got into trouble. In a nearly perfect piece of historical symmetry, Mr. Sununu's resignation was announced in Meridian, Miss.; Mr. Haldeman resigned just after Richard M. Nixon returned from a trip to the same city.
 
An Impression of Disarray
 Like Mr. Bush's hasty decision to postpone a trip to the Far East, the departure of Mr. Sununu may at first contribute to the impression of an Administration in disarray. His departure had long been rumored, but it came suddenly; the chief of staff's defenders were caught badly off balance, with Congressional backers urging that he be retained at a news conference only this morning.
But Mr. Sununu's departure is likely to lead to other changes, including the selection of leading figures in the Bush campaign, that may benefit the President. That had been complicated by Mr. Sununu's efforts to maintain at least partial control of the re-election bid and the resulting antipathy of rival party strategists.
"I'm sure the President will pick a successor shortly," said Charles Black, a Republican consultant who is expected to play a central role in the campaign. "Surely, the campaign team will not be very far behind."
Whether Mr. Bush will achieve his long-term goals by replacing Mr. Sununu will of course depend in part on whom he chooses as a successor and how well that person does.
 
Problems With Conservatives
 Clearly, the change creates some problems for Mr. Bush with the most conservative elements of his party, who looked to Mr. Sununu as their leading voice in the Administration's inner circles. They want a conservative as chief of staff, and set about immediately to let the President know it.
"As far as conservatives are concerned," said Richard Viguerie, a leading conservative fund-raiser and spokesman, "George Bush is hanging by a thread. If he makes the wrong choice at this critical time, the Bush campaign will sink like a stone."
Representative Dick Armey, a Texas Republican who has been loudly critical of Mr. Bush recently, said: President Bush needs to regain control of his Administration. The President needs sound, conservative advice on politics and economics."
Mr. Bush cannot afford at the moment to dismiss such threats out of hand. Conservatives played a leading role in his 1988 successes, and he faces a possible primary challenge next year from Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative columnist.
 
Skinner Is the Favorite
 But within the Republican mainstream, the longing is for someone who can effectively deal with Capitol Hill, with party professionals around the country and with the Government's major departments, all of whom Mr. Sununu often irritated and in some cases alienated. Unity and effectiveness, as one strategist said, "will re-elect Bush and elect more Republicans to the Congress."
Most said they favored someone like Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner or Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, who served as the White House chief of staff under President Gerald R. Ford. Mr. Skinner was described by a senior White House official tonight as "the all-but-certain choice."
Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who has been one of the President's leading confidants in the last three years, said: "People are waiting for someone to do something. There's a whole lot that needs to be done in this country."
But that will require policy initiatives, especially to combat the persistent recession, as well as shifts in personnel and attitude. Democrats were quick to note this, and will undoubtedly hammer away at the point in the weeks and months to come.
"This move will not improve the eceonmy by one iota," said Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia, a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination.
 
Focusing on New Hampshire
 After Mr. Bush has named his campaign team, he will have to come to grips with the question of what he is going to propose by way of economic stimulus next month in his State of the Union Message, which looks as if it may become a kind of unofficial Republican manifesto for the 1992 campaign. The new chief of staff will undoubtedly play a leading part in those deliberations, which will seek to find a way to keep the Democrats from claiming with credibility that they have become the last best hope of the hard-pressed middle class.
The President will also have to begin focusing on New Hampshire, where Mr. Buchanan apparently intends to launch his challenge. The economy in that state has been devastated by the recession, and the Republican Party there is seriously fragmented, with pro- and anti-Sununu factions dating to his years as Governor.
The hope of winning support from both factions is surely one reason that Mr. Bush said Mr. Sununu would remain as a White House adviser through March 1, nearly two weeks after the New Hampshire primary.
None of this will be made easier by the transition that now must take place at the very apex of the Administration. But the holiday season gives Mr. Bush some breathing room, and he clearly felt that he had no choice but to act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: MERIDIAN, MS, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MERIDIAN, MS, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; SUNUNU, JOHN H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN SUNUNU (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



144 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Chief U.S. Economist Forecasts a Recovery in Spring

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
In what could be a preview of the Bush Administration's testimony to Congress about the economy later this week, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers acknowledged today that the economy was worse than he had expected early this year, but he said he foresaw improvement by spring.
Speaking at a conference here sponsored by the Agriculture Department, the official, Michael J. Boskin, offered no new proposals and suggested that President Bush would withhold initiatives on the economy until his State of the Union Message next month. 
 The general forecast, Mr. Boskin said, is that the economy will be "somewhat more sluggish this quarter and next than previously thought, and picking up thereafter."
 
3 Officials to Testify
 Mr. Boskin, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and Richard G. Darman, the White House budget director, are scheduled to testify on Thursday before the House Ways and Means Committee about tax policy and the state of the economy.
That is the first day of a series of hearings called by Congressional Democrats to draw political attention to the weakness of the economy and to their view that the solutions put forward so far by the Administration are insufficient and would mostly help the the wealthy.
Until last week, the Administration's basic approach was to sit tight and let the recession take care of itself. But just before Congress adjourned, Mr. Bush endorsed a set of tax breaks put forward by conservative House Republicans to give the economy a jolt.
The Democrats responded immediately, brandishing tables as evidence that the main beneficiaries of the Republican measures would be taxpayers earning more than $200,000 a year. At the same time, the Democrats began pressing harder for their own proposals, which they said would provide "middle-class tax relief."
All that will be hashed out at the hearings, although no legislation is likely until next year.
 
Bush to Discuss Economy
 Mr. Bush himself is scheduled to give a speech on the economy Wednesday to the American Enterprise Institute, a research center here, but the White House advised that the speech would break little new ground, if any.
Today the President visited Mississippi and Florida in an effort to rehabilitate his standing in public opinion polls, and everything seemed designed to show that a politician who has spent years battling his prep-school-and-golf image is in touch with everyday concerns: his rolled-up blue shirt sleeves, the factory worker who introduced him to a crowd in Florida, his oft-repeated assurances that he understands the plight of the unemployed, hard-pressed small-business people and typical Americans.
Speaking of the economic troubles of many workers, he told a small crowd at a Tropicana orange and grapefruit juice plant in Bradenton, Fla.: "I do understand. And I am concerned. And I really want to help."
"Much more needs to be done," he declared, without saying exactly what he had in mind. "We can't sit back and hope for the best."
Mr. Boskin, the Administration's top professional economist, has more or less previously made the points he made in his speech today, but they took on new significance because the economy has become such a central topic politically.
His thesis is that unavoidable "external shocks" like the rise in oil prices that followed Iraq's invasion of Kuwait pushed the country into a mild recession last year. "A modest recovery began in the spring," Mr. Boskin said, but in the last two or three months, "the recovery has turned quite a bit more sluggish."
He said he thought the most recent average forecast of 50 prominent private economists collected by Blue Chip Economic Indicators, that the economy would grow by 1.9 percent in the current calendar quarter, was probably too optimistic, and he cautioned that it would be some time before the economy returned to the level of mid-1990, just before the recession began.
Furthermore, Mr. Boskin said, economic growth is being hampered by a lack of available credit, by tax increases and spending cuts by state and local governments, by the longer-than-usual lag in time before cuts in interest rates work their way through the economy and by the fact that the large budget deficit makes a fiscal stimulus inappropriate.
But he said he saw "opportunities for upside potential." Banks, he said, will someday soon begin to lend more readily, lower interest rates will begin to have a broad effect on the economy, growth abroad will lead to more exports, and the lean state of inventories will cause the economy to pick up quickly as soon as there is an increase in consumer demand. In addition, Mr. Boskin said, the current low rate of inflation is an encouraging sign.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael J. Boskin, chairman of Council of Economic Advisers. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); TAX RELIEF (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (60%); SPONSORSHIP (56%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BOSKIN, MICHAEL J (CHMN) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



145 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Ban on Race-Exclusive Scholarships Is Expected

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
After a seven-month review, Education Secretary Lamar Alexander is expected to issue regulations on Wednesday that ban race-exclusive scholarships for college students, Administration officials said.
A similar position, taken last December by Michael L. Williams, Assistant Secretary for civil rights at the Education Department, raised a firestorm of protest by colleges and universities and civil rights groups. They argued that such a policy would undermine minority participation in higher education. 
 Under the rules to be issued Wednesday, race could still be used as one factor in awarding scholarships in order to achieve diversity on college campuses, but not the only factor, said the officials, who insisted on anonymity. Campus diversity could be achieved, they say, without considering race but by considering factors like geographic origin, cultural or economic disadvantages, or specific talents.
 
Rescinding of Ban
 Mr. Williams, who argued that race-exclusive scholarships violated Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, would have completely banned such scholarships except those being used under court desegregation orders.
Mr. Alexander rescinded Mr. Williams's ruling in April, saying he wanted the issue to be studied further.
Different drafts of the new proposed ruling, first reported in The Washington Post today, have been circulating within the Department of Education and the Justice Department and it is still unclear how scholarships given by private donors and designated specifically for minorities would be treated.
One proposal would permit colleges to accept private donations designated for minority scholarships as long as white students would have the opportunity to compete for similar financial assistance. Another proposal would permit race-exclusive scholarships as long as they were not administered by the college or university; a student would instead apply for and receive such financial aid directly from the private donor, then use the funds to pay for college fees.
Robert Atwell, president of the American Council on Education, an association of colleges and universities, said he would withhold any reaction to the ban until he had seen the specific details.
But Representative Ted Weiss, a Manhattan Democrat who is chairman of the Subcommittee on Human Resources and Intergovernmental Relations, said, "This proposed rule is the same misguided policy the department attempted last year."
"Despite the sugar coating," he said, "the Administration continues to deny the legality of race-specific scholarships and the economic hardships faced by minority students who suffer from the remnants of discrimination. It is another example of the Administration's blind spot on civil rights."
Scholarships based on race in combination with other factors, like financial need or a student's grades or special talents, would still be permitted.
Phyllis McClure, an official of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said: "Based on what we know, we believe these scholarships were legal. There is only one thing that has changed, and that is use of the race issue for political reasons."
Before Mr. Williams issued the rescinded policy last year, the Education Department permitted race-specific scholarships as a way to increase minority student participation, to remedy past discrimination and underrepresentation and to achieve Congressionally mandated goals.
Race-specific scholarships would continue to be allowed under the new policy if institutions are under court-ordered desegregation or state-mandated orders. Congressional scholarships targeted for minorities would also continue.
Mr. Alexander, who was in Louisville, Ky., today released a statement through the Education Department here reassuring the higher education officials that "no student will lose a scholarship under the principles we are about to announce."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Education Secretary Lamar Alexander is expected to issue regulations today on banning scholarships based exclusively on race. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; BLACKS (IN US) SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); RACE & RACISM (76%); GRADES & GRADING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); 

PERSON: DE WITT, KAREN; ALEXANDER, LAMAR (SEC) LAMAR ALEXANDER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



146 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: High Interest Holds Up House of Credit Cards

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "The Senate's Credit Card Blunder" (editorial, Nov. 20), you join those denouncing efforts to reduce interest rates on credit cards. Amazingly, in the public debate over whether or not to cap interest rates on bank and retail credit cards, there seems little acknowledgment that interest rates on credit cards are too high now and have been too high for a decade. 
 The banks, joined by most editorial boards, have turned the credit card debate around, to portray banks and retailers as needing sympathy, while those who have been calling for restraint on credit card interest rates are termed irresponsible.
The issue is not whether or not any particular cap should be applied to interest rates on credit cards. Instead, we need to question why those interest rates are, in many instances, triple the prime rate of most lending institutions. Indeed, as the prime rate has decreased over a decade, interest on some credit cards -- especially those of retailers -- has actually increased. A recent study by the New York State Consumer Protection Board and the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs shows that while the cost of money to most banks has dropped from a high of 15 percent in 1981 to 4 1/2 percent in November 1991, credit card interest rates have averaged approximately 19 percent without any significant reduction in the same period.
Some major retailers have increased interest rates on their store cards since last Christmas despite the decline in all other interest rates. For example, Bloomingdale's now charges 21.6 percent, up from 18 percent; Macy's increased its rate to 21.6 percent from 19.8 percent. How anyone can justify these actions is beyond comprehension.
While we can question the appropriateness of a specific cap on interest rates, most banks and retailers have failed to heed the call for a voluntary reduction of excessive interest charges on credit cards. And, while you talk about credit card competition, a majority of consumers face little choice when it comes to available credit. Most banks who have credit cards with low interest rates do not make them available to the large majority of consumers whose credit records are only satisfactory or worse. Furthermore, your attempt to blame the recession for the slow fall in credit card interest rates lacks merit, considering that these rates have not really fallen for the last 10 years.
You made one acknowledgment that most critics of cap proposals fail to make. Credit card interest rates are excessive because the profits from them are being used to offset bad loans by banks and poor business decisions by retailers. Why should middle class consumers bail out banks and retailers through their credit card purchases?
Advocates for low credit card interest rates do not contend that banks and retailers should not be able to earn a profit or cover costs through interest rates. And I have never seen it argued that credit card interest rates should equal the prime or discount rate. We ask that credit card interest rates fairly reflect economic conditions and that they be flexible and competitive. Today's rates are neither.
 
RICHARD M. KESSEL
Executive Director
State Consumer Protection Board
New York, Nov. 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; INTEREST (MONEY) INTEREST RATES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CREDIT CARDS (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); PRIME RATES (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); RECESSION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); BAILOUTS (64%); 

PERSON: KESSEL, RICHARD M

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



147 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: High Interest Holds Up House of Credit Cards;
Curbing Usury

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A ceiling on credit card interest is a very conservative idea. The usury laws were the first consumer protection laws. New Jersey's general usury law has been in effect since English colonial times. Usury laws are a centuries-old tradition because they have always been needed to protect people from interest gouging. 
 In contrast, the last decade has seen a radical experiment in which lenders were generally free to raise their rates. That experiment proved that when a few institutions control 175 million credit cards (as the chart in your Nov. 20 editorial shows), credit card interest prices do not rise and fall with economic trends.
A floating usury ceiling embodies the same economic principle as the adjustable rate mortgage. What's fair for the banks to charge should also be the limit on what they charge.
Congress had the right idea about a floating ceiling, but caved in to bank pressure. While consumers wait for a reasonable law, they should reward the smaller banks that lend at low rates. For a free list of banks offering rates of 9.5 percent to 15 percent, consumers may send a stamped, self-addressed business envelope to the Consumers League of New Jersey (60 South Fullerton Avenue, Montclair, N.J. 07042).
 
NEIL J. FOGARTY
President, Consumers League of N.J.
Montclair, N.J., Nov. 27, 1991

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONSUMERS LEAGUE OF NEW JERSEY (82%); CONSUMERS LEAGUE OF NEW JERSEY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMERS LEAGUE OF NEW JERSEY (82%); CONSUMERS LEAGUE OF NEW JERSEY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; INTEREST (MONEY) CREDIT CARDS (92%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: FOGARTY, NEIL J

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991



148 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Using the Recession As a Selling Tool

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Grace & Rothschild, New York, is using the recession as a selling pitch for its client Range Rover vehicles.
 "Buy something," is the headline of a print advertisement scheduled to appear in USA Today and other publications starting next Tuesday. The ad goes on: "Our preference, of course, would be that you buy a Range Rover. But if that's not in the cards, buy a microwave. A basset hound. Theater tickets. Because if we all wait for the recession to be officially declared over to start spending again, the problem will simply keep feeding on itself." 
The ad was not completely selfless, said Roy Grace, the agency's chairman. "It's a fresh way to reach potential buyers," he said, "by shaking them up and bringing them a little bit closer to making a purchase."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (59%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: RANGE ROVER OF NORTH AMERICA INC; GRACE & ROTHSCHILD (AD AGENCY) GRACE & ROTHSCHILD INC (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RANGE ROVER OF NORTH AMERICA INC; GRACE & ROTHSCHILD (AD AGENCY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; AUTOMOBILES; RECREATION VEHICLES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1992



149 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Seems Closer to Decision on Running for President

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 3

 BODY:
Although classically cryptic, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo seemed to be accelerating toward a decision today on entering the Presidential race as he backed away from the notion that he needed a state budget solution to run. He said he would like to compete in the New Hampshire primary but would not have to. And he cast himself as an underdog despite polls that show him as the front-runner among Democratic contenders.
 Mr. Cuomo, who said in October that he would have to make such a decision by the end of November, entered December by suggesting that he would announce his plans in time to meet the Dec. 20 filing deadline for the New Hampshire primary. 
If you want to run in the primary in New Hampshire, which I would want to, then that's a date," Mr. Cuomo said this morning on "Good Day New York" on WNYW-TV. At a news conference later, however, he said that while skipping the New Hampshire primary would be a "disadvantage," it would "not necessarily" preclude him from running.
 The Feb. 18 primary is the first in the nation and traditionally has served as a barometer of political strength.
 
Scoring Well in Polls
 The latest polls show that Mr. Cuomo would be a heavy favorite in the Democratic primary there, as around the country. A poll conducted from Nov. 15 to 22 by the American Research Group, for example, found that Mr. Cuomo was favored by 31 percent of the New Hampshire Democrats surveyed while his closest prospective competitor, Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, was favored by 6 percent. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points.
 But Mr. Cuomo tried strenuously today to diminish the high expectations set by such polls. The Governor, who feels his scrappy, combative style is best suited to an underdog campaign, argued that he would be "starting from way behind" because of the organizational problems associated with a late entry.
 "I am already falling behind everybody else," Mr. Cuomo said. "They have their speeches down pat. They have their fund-raisers. They've hired their consultants. They have their line of logic. They even have their negatives in place, some of them, attacking other candidates. I haven't done any of that."
 In fact, Mr. Cuomo has done much of that. He may not have hired a staff, but the Governor has spent more than 18 months honing a critique of the Bush Administration's domestic policy and formulating his own proposals for stimulating economic growth.
 
Themes Being Tested
 He has tested his themes and strategy in recent conversations with business leaders like H. Ross Perot, Democratic Party figures like Ethel Kennedy and Gary Hart, and political consultants like John Sasso, David Garth and Ann Lewis.
 Mr. Cuomo may not have a Presidential fund-raising committee, but his campaign treasury holds close to $4 million, and his aides estimate that about $1 million of it could be used under Federal rules as seed money for a national race. "I know just from the people who have asked me to run that we could get the money," Mr. Cuomo said in an interview 10 days ago,
 And while most of the Governor's invective has been aimed at President Bush's Administration, he has also found time to criticize some of his potential Democratic opponents. He recently referred to a college-loan proposal by one of them, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, as "a lot of baloney."
 Aides to several of the announced candidates could not stifle laughter when hearing that Mr. Cuomo was positioning himself as an underdog.
 
Name Recognition
 "Some of what he says is true," said Lorraine Voles, a spokeswoman for Mr. Harkin's campaign. "These candidates have been out there. But he does have the advantage of incredible name recognition from -- what is it -- six weeks of uninterrupted press coverage of his decision-making process."
 It actually has been seven and a half weeks since Mr. Cuomo first disclosed on Oct. 11 that he would think about the 1992 Presidential race. Since then, he has taken the position that the only obstacles to his candidacy are posed by the fiscal problems afflicting the state and New York City.
 Mr. Cuomo is negotiating with the State Legislature to close an $875 million gap in this year's $30 billion budget. A gap of nearly $4 billion is projected for the fiscal year that begins on April 1.
 At various points during the last month, Mr. Cuomo has seemed close to ruling out a Presidential campaign because of the inability to find a quick solution to the state and city budget problems. In explaining that he was feeling pressure to make a decision soon, he told reporters in Buffalo on Nov. 18: "If you have to rush your decision and I don't have a budget solution, then I would have to say, 'No.' "
 But when asked today whether he could run without resolving the state's budget problems, he said, "I never said resolve them. To say, well, you have to wait to resolve the budget means that you could never run because the budget won't be resolved until next April, if you do it on time. What I've said is I have to be sure that my running for President won't make it more difficult, won't make it worse for the state."
 
'A Great Flood'
 As he has throughout his deliberative process, Mr. Cuomo then constructed a rationale both for running and for not running. He began by saying the problems of the states and the cities have their source in Washington.
 "This is a great flood and it happened at the dam," he said. "There is no point in putting sandbags here. You've got to stop it at the dam. That's one logic.
 "The other logic is in the meantime I've got to get the sandbags up because New York City and New York State are in trouble. I don't want to bore you with how complicated it gets, but that is the essential tension."


GRAPHIC: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo on how the state budget affects his Presidential deliberations:
Chronology: "Talking Points: Cuomo, the Budget and the Presidency"
 Nov. 8: "I haven't made the decision yet but my stomach tells me I can't leave the state in the middle of a $700 million deficit and the City of New York in big trouble." -- News conference in Binghamton
 Nov. 14: "Let's be realistic about the Presidency. What can you say about the Presidency if you are faced with this problem? How do you deal with the Presidency if you've got a $700 million hole?" -- "Ask the Governor" WCBS-AM
 Nov. 18: "If you have to rush your decision and I don't have a budget solution, then I would have to say 'No.' " -- News conference in Buffalo
 Nov. 21: "If my running is disruptive to the process, if my running will make it harder for us to do what we must do, which is get a budget in the state and in the city, if my running is going to make life more difficult for New Yorkers, then I can't run." -- News conference in New York City
 Yesterday: "I never said resolve them. To say well you have to wait to resolve the budget means that you could never run because the budget won't be resolved until next April, if you do it on time. What I've said is I have to be sure that my running for President won't make it more difficult, won't make it worse for the state." -- "Good Day New York" WNYW-TV

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH GROUP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); STATISTICS (69%); FUNDRAISING (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) TOM HARKIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1992



150 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Tax-Exempt Funds Post A Slight Increase in Yields

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
Yields on tax-exempt money market funds tended to rise a little during the last week, but yields on taxable money market funds showed a moderate decline, according to IBC/ Donoghue's, which monitors the funds and issues The Money Fund Report.
"We would expect the tax-exempt yields to rise a little during the short term because of the heavy supply of municipal bond offerings coming to market," said Walter S. Frank, chief economist for IBC/Donoghue's. He said many municipalities were rushing to issue securities before the year ended. 
 The declining yields in taxable funds, he said, still partly reflected the easing of monetary policy by the Federal Reserve a month ago.
 
Economist's Expectations
 "We would expect to see a further decline in yields," Mr. Frank said, "although we are coming into the season when there are short-term rises in yields because of the squeeze on short-term funds at year-end due to window-dressing by institutions hoping to improve the look of their balance sheets."
He said total assets of the tax-exempt funds dropped by $312 million, to $91.5 billion. The average days to maturity of holdings in tax-exempt portfolios remained unchanged at 58.
The seven-day compound average yield for tax-exempt funds was 3.80 percent, up 6 basis points from the previous week. The seven-day simple yield for the tax-exempt funds rose to 3.73 percent, also up 6 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent.
The 30-day compound yield did not reflect the short-term rise. It declined to 3.79 percent, from 3.83 percent the previous week. The 30-day simple yield also showed a drop, moving down to 3.72 percent from 3.76 percent.
Among tax-exempt funds investing in individual state securities, the top New York fund was once again the Salomon Brothers New York Municipal Money Market Fund, which had a seven-day compound yield of 4.44 percent, down 2 basis points from 4.46 percent last week.
In Connecticut, the leader was the Prudential Connecticut Municipal Money Market Fund, with a yield of 4.16 percent, compared with 4.10 percent last week.
 
Tops in New Jersey
 In New Jersey, the best showing was made by Calvert Tax Free Reserve New Jersey, with a seven-day compound yield of 4.35 percent, about 5 basis points higher than the top fund last week.
The highest-yielding tax-exempt fund among those with assets greater than $100 million continued to be the Strong Municipal Money Market Fund, with a seven-day compound yield of 4.83 percent, up 4 basis points from last week.
Assets of taxable funds, Mr. Frank said, dropped $1.7 billion, to $472.5 billion. "Of that, $800 million came from institutional investors," he said. "This presumably was a reflow back into the stock and bond markets." There has been a steady flow of money out of money market funds, as individual investors seek higher returns, with many of them switching to stock and bond funds.
 
Maturities Decline
 The average days to maturity of the taxable funds was 62 days, down one day.
The seven-day compound yield on taxable funds dropped 4 basis points, to 4.77 percent, while the seven-day simple yield for the taxable funds dropped to 4.66 percent, also a decline of 4 basis points.
Meanwhile, the average compound 30-day yield fell to 4.86 percent, down from 4.94 percent, and the 30-day simple yield fell to 4.75 percent, off 7 basis points.
The top-yielding fund for the week among the taxables continued to be Riverside Capital of Columbus, Ohio, with a seven-day compound yield of 5.96 percent compared with 6.00 percent last week.
By comparison, bank money market accounts, a main competitor of money funds, dropped to a yield of 4.65 percent, from 4.70 percent a week earlier, according to The Bank Rate Monitor's national index.
 


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on March 13, 1991, by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 		Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	 	 	 	New York	4.49	4.56	Los Angeles	4.71	4.77	Chicago	4.62	4.84	San Francisco	4.63	4.73	Philadelphia	4.58	4.71	Detroit	4.58	4.66	Boston	4.58	4.80	Houston	4.71	4.71	Dallas	4.78	4.79	Washington	4.81	5.23	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	4.65	4.78	
 
* Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)
Table: "Regional Rates Table"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



151 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-22
 
LAST U.S. HOSTAGE IS FREE
Terry Anderson, the longest-held American hostage in Lebanon, was freed by his kidnappers after nearly seven years in captivity. Smiling and laughing as he met with reporters in Syria, he said he was in good health. A1
 

THE IRANIAN INITIATIVE
The freeing of the American hostages in Lebanon and a reported deal to let two remaining Germans go free came at the initiative of Iran, which in recent months has stated its desire to broaden economic and political contacts with the West. A1
 
2 EX-CAPTIVES SCARRED FOR LIFE
Physicians examining Alann Steen and Joseph Cicippio at a military hospital said the two men would remain physically scarred for life as a result of the blows to the head they suffered as hostages. A20
 
Former captives started to recount what they really endured. A21
 
The Associated Press negotiated behind the scenes for 7 years. A21
 
A U.N. envoy will visit Bonn to discuss German captives. A21
 
ISRAEL BOYCOTTS TALKS
Syrian, Lebanese, Jordanian and Palestinian negotiators gathered in Washington for the second round of Middle East peace talks, but quickly departed after the Israeli delegation failed to turn up. A11
 
BANKERS VS. UKRAINE'S OLD GUARD
Ukraine's apostate Communists were angling to keep their Cabinet jobs as investment-minded bankers insisted that they be dumped. A3
 
The Soviet Union postponed nearly $4 billion in loan payments. A6
 
POORER EUROPEANS DEMAND AID
Fearful of being condemned to "poor relative" status, Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland are demanding that their richer partners promise greater aid when European Community leaders meet next week. A13
 
LIBYA SAYS IT ORDERED ARRESTS
Libya's intelligence chief asserted that he ordered the arrests of two Libyans accused by the United States and Britain of carrying out a bombing of a Pan Am flight. A9
 
EVIDENCE OF MAYA WRITING
Scholars say a ceramic vessel shows that the Maya civilization produced books in the Americas at least 500 years earlier than previously believed. A12
 
Togo's Prime Minister is still in office but faces pressure. A7
 
Fighting blocks the dispatch of U.N. peacekeepers to Croatia. A5
 
Fidel Castro told a visiting U.S. Senator of Cuba's economic plight. A14
 
Bucharest Journal: A debate on Ceausescu's buildings. A4
 
NATIONAL A24-30, B16-19
 
GATES SETS FORTH HIS PLANS
In a sometimes blunt speech to his employees, the new Director of Central Intelligence said he intended to shrink America's espionage network and reorganize it for a world in which the Soviet Union is no longer the primary threat. A1
 
BUSH BEGINS REBUILDING
The President remained silent on his intentions but met with his closest advisers in a first step toward naming a 1992 campaign team and a successor to John H. Sununu as White House chief of staff. A1
White House Memo: Mr. Sununu lacked support almost everywhere. B18
 
DUKE SAYS HE'S RUNNING
David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader who has polarized Louisiana politics with angry campaigns against welfare and affirmative action, announced that he was entering the race for the Republican Presidential nomination. B18
 
KEATING IS CONVICTED
Charles H. Keating Jr., the executive who came to embody the troubles that have ravaged the savings and loan industry, was found guilty of securities fraud. A1
 
WHICH PUMP TO PRIME?
The Congressional hearings on the state of the economy that begin today will spotlight the fundamental difference between Republicans and Democrats over tax policy and what makes the economy tick. B17
 
SMITH'S ACCUSER TESTIFIES
Choking back tears, the 30-year-old Florida woman who has accused William K. Smith of raping her at the Kennedy estate in Palm Beach took the witness stand and said, "I thought he was going to kill me." A1
 
Critic's Notebook: The Smith trial on television. A24
 
RACE AND SCHOLARSHIPS
Education Secretary Alexander proposed regulations that for the most part would bar college scholarships based exclusively on race. A26
 
The Supreme Court heard arguments on hate-crime laws. B19
 
Old soldiers and sailors are returning to Pearl Harbor. A28
 
METROPOLITAN Digest, B1
 
BONILLA SNUBS SCHOOL
Bobby Bonilla, the highest paid athlete in professional team sports, says he wants to give something back to his old neighborhood, the South Bronx. But his alma mater need not apply. A1
 
Neediest Cases B6
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
The Home Section C1-12
The Christmas you never had. C1
What do you do with a cabin with a past? Give it a good home. C1
Toward a "family friendly" work place. C2
Improving a table's footwork. C5
For disabled women, time for sharing. C7
Between first and second wives, a gulf. C8
Parent & Child. C12
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-24
"For the Boys" brings holiday gloom to studio. C15
Joffrey Ballet cancels spring season in New York. C15
Ads for shows on Broadway and Off. C15
Theater: "Mad Forest." C15
Word and Image: Home Video. C20
Pearl Harbor remembered. C22
Season's best children's books. C22
 
Obituaries D23
Bert T. Combs, ex-Governor of Kentucky
 
Sports B21-30
Baseball: Mets hunt for pitchers. B21
Basketball: North Carolina jolts Seton Hall. B21
Boxing: Foreman is the peoples' choice. B21
Column: Rhoden on college athletics. B21
Hockey: Struggling to come to grips with AIDS. B24
Horse Racing: Thoughts from a retiring steward. B27
Olympics: Helmick misses the ethical point. B23
Skiing: Camps smoothe the trails. B26
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A32-33
Editorials A32
The hostage lesson.
For President: hate and fear.
Rough justice for Baltimore.
Letters A32
Tom Wicker: Predictable demise. A33
William Safire: Gulf-war skeleton. A33
Peggy Say: Free at last. A33
Anders Aslund and Richard Layard: Help Russia now. A33

GRAPHIC: Photo: The education chief takes aim at race-based scholarships. A26 (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPE (92%); LEBANON (92%); UKRAINE (91%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); GERMANY (90%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TOGO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CROATIA (79%); SPAIN (73%); GREECE (69%); CUBA (66%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (55%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPE (92%); LEBANON (92%); UKRAINE (91%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); GERMANY (90%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TOGO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CROATIA (79%); SPAIN (73%); GREECE (69%); CUBA (66%); BONN, GERMANY (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOSTAGE TAKING (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); BOYCOTTS (75%); BOMBINGS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); ESPIONAGE (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (54%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



152 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: THE LAST U.S. HOSTAGE;
From Iran to U.S., a Hint of Good Will

BYLINE: ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The release of Terry Anderson closes a painful, eight-year chapter of America's experience with hostage taking in Lebanon and removes the most serious obstacle to an improvement in the relationship between Washington and Teheran.
Throughout the period when Americans were held hostage by Iranian-backed groups in Lebanon -- even during the ill-fated deals to exchange arms for hostages -- United States policy was to keep Iran at arms length, resolved that there could be no fundamental change in Washington's attitude until the last American went free. 
 It now seems evident that the freeing of all the American hostages in Lebanon and the reported deal to let the remaining two Germans go free soon came at the initiative of Iran, which in recent months has repeatedly stated its desire to broaden its economic and political contacts with the West.
The Iranians knew that their welcome in the West awaited the release of the remaining hostages, since it had long been established that the radical Shiite Muslim groups holding the Westerners in Lebanon were financially and spirtually linked to Iran.
 
Bush Is Cautious
 Whatever his ultimate plans for dealing with Iran, President Bush reacted cautiously today. He praised the United Nations, Syria, Iran and Lebanon for their help in freeing the hostages, but noted that the story was not over. Two German hostages are still being held in Lebanon, Arabs and Palestinians are being held by Israel, and information about hostages and prisoners who may have died in captivity has yet to be supplied.
When asked about a possible resumption in relations between the United States and Iran, Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, equivocated in statements that reflected the Administration's ambivalence toward Teheran. "It's impossible to define the future," he replied, but then cited Mr. Bush's inaugural pledge to Iran that "Good will begets good will." Then he qualified the remark, adding that the Teheran Government has not divorced itself from state-supported terrorism. "Nevertheless, they are still a terrorist state and there's still no change in that," he said.
 
U.S. Ambivalence
 This ambivalence was evident in recent American dealings with Iran. Two weeks ago, the United States paid Iran $278 million for undelivered Iranian-owned, American-made arms that had been prevented from being shipped to Iran after the fall of the Shah in 1979. But also, in recent months, the United States has blocked the sale of British-made planes built with American components to Iran and urged India not to build a nuclear plant for Iran.
Iran was allowed to sell limited amounts of its oil to American companies, but only to help fund a special escrow account at The Hague used to pay American claims stemming from Iran's seizure of the United States Embassy in Teheran in 1979. A number of European governments have declined to sign large projects with Iran, a situation that Iranian officials attributed to American spoiling.
The assassination of a former Iranian Prime Minister, Shahpur Bakhtiar, in Paris this year, the slaying of other Iranian opposition figures around the world, and the death order for the author Salman Rushdie, which Teheran has refused to lift after the death of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, all contribute to keeping Iran on the State Department's list of countries that support terrorism. But inclusion on the terrorism list does not always mean much more than a number of bothersome economic sanctions.
Syria also remains on the list, yet the Government of President Hafez al-Assad has won praise from Washington for its part in the American-organized alliance against Iraq during the Persian Gulf war and in the American-sponsored Middle East peace talks.
Iran still has "several hundred" revolutionary guards in Lebanon and still finances some of the Muslim fundamentalist groups linked to the captors, American intelligence officials say.
Amid the rejoicing, there also remains an unease that Middle Eastern terrorism is by no means over. There is no certainty that another group, at another time, will not snatch another Westerner from the Beirut streets. Assessments by counterterrorist experts in various agencies of the Bush Administration range from cautious optimism that the groups that held the hostages for so long will now turn to more productive projects to outright cynicism that the political situation in the region may unleash an even more virulent strain of freelance terrorism.
 
A Major Victory
 Nevertheless, today's release represents a major victory: for the United Nations, whose months of quiet, often daring negotiations have paid off; for Iran, whose global image as a reliable political and economic partner is improved; and for the United States, which can now craft a regional policy in the Middle East unencumbered by the wearisome hostage issue.
The negotiations, brokered by the United Nations, were made possible and eventually succeeded because of a confluence of factors that made taking hostages an unprofitable proposition.
The most important reason was that Iran, which enjoyed considerable although uneven influence over the captors of the Americans, decided that its own economic reconstruction and links to the West superseded its radical aims in Lebanon. Teheran's religious leadership, in the aftermath of the Gulf war saw Iraq's defeat as an opportunity to strengthen Iran's own regional stature via more conventional diplomacy and therefore removed its plans for exporting the Muslim revolution from the Government's agenda.
 
Lost of Soviet Aid
 Second, the collapse of the Soviet Union made it apparent that no Arab country would have a Soviet-supplied army with the latest modern technology or would benefit very much from Moscow's patronage. Syria, which for years had used Lebanon for its own terrorist aims, decided to buy into games played by American rules: the coalition in the gulf war and the Arab-Israeli peace process.
Third, a Syrian-Lebanese treaty of cooperation expanded Syria's control over Lebanese affairs, helping to restore stability to the country.
Fourth, the immediate reason for the capture of some of the Western hostages in Lebanon -- and once a non-negotiable demand for their release -- evaporated overnight when, in the confusion of the Iraqi seizure of Kuwait in August 1990, 15 prisoners who were jailed in Kuwait for terrorist activities were set free.
Finally, the relentless efforts of Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar and one of his deputies, Giandomenico Picco, to seize what they perceived as an opening in Teheran and mediate an agreement with all the parties that facilitated the breakthrough.
Still, there has been no resolution of many of the issues that led to hostage-taking in the first place: reducing the influence of the United States in the region, bridging the gap between rich and poor and creating a balance of power with Israel. That reality has led Administration specialists in counterterrorism, granted, the most pessimistic interpreters of hostage-related events, to suspect that the hostage-taking era may not be over.
In the view of the Administration, the release of the last American hostage does not make Lebanon a more benign place. A State Department advisory warning American citizens to avoid all travel to Lebanon is still in place, and United States passports are not valid for travel to, in or through Lebanon. Officials acknowledge that they can give no assurances that more Americans will not be taken hostage. Said one senior Administration official, "They could seize hostages tomorrow."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); LEBANON (94%); IRAN (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; LEBANON; IRAN UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); LEBANON (94%); IRAN (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); GERMANY (71%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES; AMERICANS ABROAD; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HOSTAGE TAKING (94%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TRENDS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



153 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Sununu Expects Skinner Will Be New Staff Chief

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
John H. Sununu, the ousted White House chief of staff, said tonight that he expected his successor to be Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner.
Speaking in an interview on the Cable News Network, Mr. Sununu, who submitted his forced resignation on Tuesday, also said he expected President Bush to name the new chief of staff either Thursday or Friday and to make the long-expected announcement of the President's top 1992 campaign staff at the same time. 
 Mr. Bush remained publicly silent on his intentions but kept up a busy schedule of meetings with his closest advisers, including one with Mr. Skinner, that suggested he was moving quickly toward decisions on a leadership team for 1992 and repairing the political damage he has suffered in the last weeks of Mr. Sununu's tenure.
In the CNN interview, which took place on the "Larry King Live" program, Mr. Sununu, who will remain chief of staff until Dec. 15 and will be a Presidential adviser until next March, ll but confirmed that Mr. Bush's choice to succeed him was Mr. Skinner.
"I think he's made up his mind," Mr. Sununu said of the President.
Asked about widespread reports that Mr. Skinner would be the choice, Mr. Sununu said, "I don't think the name that comes out will be a surprise, considering what's been discussed in the press."
Mr. Skinner visited the White House late this morning, and during the day the President also met with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, perhaps his most trusted political adviser; Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, a longtime friend, and two of the anticipated top officials of the President's re-election team: Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher, who is expected to be the campaign manager, and Robert M. Teeter, the President's poll taker.
Mr. Bush also delivered a speech to the American Enterprise Institute, a research center here, in which he tried out the latest version of his economic message, one of concern linked to the promise of "common sense" proposals for growth in his State of the Union Message next month. It was an apparent acknowledgment that his attempt to place blame for the Government's inaction on the Republican-Democratic split between the White House and Congress was not working.
Moving on another front where he has drawn much criticism for a perceived lack of leadership, Mr. Bush planned to meet on Monday with top officials of the Department of Health and Human Services and the National Commission on AIDS, which has criticized his policies on the disease.
 
Sense of Expectation
 As of this evening, associates of Mr. Skinner said he had not yet been offered Mr. Sununu's job, but the sense of expectation at the White House was heightened by the appearance of his limousine in the executive parking lot at 11 o'clock this morning. It was the third time in four days that Mr. Skinner had been to the White House.
Although Mr. Skinner has tried to avoid leaving a public impression that he wants the job, Administration officials and Republican strategists said he had been cultivating contacts both inside and outside the Administration in a manner that contrasts to Mr. Sununu's inability to play Washington politics.
Mr. Skinner, an Illinoisan whose friends describe him as a "Chicago pol" who knows how to make things work, has made a practice for some time of showing up at the White House mess on a regular basis and having lunch with White House aides, an extremely unusual habit for a Cabinet officer.
Perhaps mindful that his reputation as a pragmatic moderate could draw fire from the Republican right, Mr. Skinner has also cultivated a friendship with Vice President Dan Quayle, conservatives' best friend within the Administration. Associates say Mr. Quayle once invited Mr. Skinner to the Indianapolis 500 by calling him at work and saying into the telephone: "Vroom! Vroom!"
 
Former U.S. Attorney
 Mr. Skinner, 53 years old, is a former United States Attorney from Chicago who developed a relationship with Mr. Bush through his own mentor, former Gov. James R. Thompson Jr. of Illinois, a leading political supporter of Mr. Bush. Mr. Skinner ran Mr. Bush's primary and general election campaigns in Illinois in 1988 and also worked on Mr. Bush's 1980 primary campaign against Ronald Reagan.
Other than Mr. Skinner, people mentioned for the chief of staff's job have included Fred Malek, a longtime associate of Mr. Bush who is reported to prefer a spot in the President's re-election campaign, and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, who has reportedly indicated that he is not interested in the job and who left today for a 10-day trip to Hawaii and Europe.
In addition, one faction of Bush advisers has been pushing Secretary of Education Lamar Alexander.
One day after Mr. Sununu handed in his resignation, Mr. Bush seemed clearly eager to begin to repair the damage caused by the disarray in his domestic policy team, much of which has been attributed to Mr. Sununu.
But the removal of the former New Hampshire Governor is unlikely to end Mr. Bush's problems by itself.
Democrats, who had used Mr. Bush's hesitation in dealing with Mr. Sununu as ammunition against a President whose leadership had suddenly been called into question by public opinion polls, are now saying that he must do more than get rid of one aide to demonstrate his concern about domestic affairs.
Removing Mr. Sununu will also leave Mr. Bush a residue of problems with his party's conservative wing, which has been increasingly critical of his economic policy and has long been suspicious of his commitment to a conservative agenda.
In his interview tonight, Mr. Sununu sought to dispel any notion that he might run for the United States Senate in New Hampshire if Senator Warren B. Rudman, a Republican whose term expires next year, decides not to seek re-election.
"Even if he doesn't run, I'm not going to run for the seat," Mr. Sununu said. "I really have to get back to the private sector, to get what my kids call a real job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner, who is considered to be the most likely replacement for John H. Sununu. (Marty Katz) (pg. B18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INTERVIEWS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); AIDS & HIV (62%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; SUNUNU, JOHN H; SKINNER, SAMUEL K (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN SUNUNU (79%); JOEL V STAFF (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



154 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: White House Memo;
Sununu Downfall: He Broke 7 Cardinal Rules

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The White House is an easy place to lose perspective.
When George W. Bush, the President's oldest son, visited John H. Sununu's office in the West Wing a week ago to suggest that Mr. Sununu might want to do the President a favor and resign, the chief of staff balked. 
 Mr. Sununu rejected the younger Bush's assertion that he no longer had enough support in the Cabinet, the Bush inner circle or the Republican Party to do his job effectively, and he began telephoning Republicans to drum up support. But he soon learned that while a few Republicans were willing to speak out for him or to call the President, it was a very few. It did not break into double digits.
 
Lacking Cadre of Friends
 Only then did Mr. Sununu understand what the rest of Washington had known for weeks: He had no cadre of friends on Capitol Hill, no core of Bush loyalists and no conservative base to break his fall.
As William J. Bennett, the prominent conservative and former national drug czar who made calls on Mr. Sununu's behalf on Monday, put it: "I was trying to rally support, but it was tough. People were saying, 'Gee, I like John. He is conservative. But he was mean to me.' "
"I mean, come on, grow up, guys; some people in this town are just too delicate," continued Mr. Bennett, who knows something about the political price of operating with a blunt, combative manner. "I dealt with Sununu. We had our shouting matches on drug policies and Republican National Committee matters, but so what?"
 
Job Campaign Came Too Late
 Mr. Sununu had also alienated many conservatives when he helped hammer out a bipartisan budget deal last year that included tax increases, and, as one leading conservative put it, continued to treat any criticism or opposition to the deal as "treachery." Conservatives considered it a betrayal when Mr. Sununu did not try to persuade Mr. Bush to stick to his no-tax campaign pledge.
By the time Mr. Sununu began his campaign to save his job by asking Republicans to lobby the President, it was too late. Persuaded by the report of his son, who had made a survey of Bush loyalists; persuaded by his talks with his wife, Barbara, with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and other trusted friends, and persuaded by the lowest popularity-poll numbers of his Administration, Mr. Bush had made up his mind over the weekend at Camp David, his advisers said today.
The campaign to lobby Mr. Bush was Mr. Sununu's final bit of political tone deafness. The Bushes did not like it, their friends said, calling it unseemly, wrong and in poor taste.
In the end, Mr. Bush told his friends, he had to ask Mr. Sununu to resign because, as a Bush intimate said, "the White House was not functioning as smoothly as George Bush likes it to."
Or, as another Republican put it less delicately: "Bush is at 48 percent in the polls. The wheels are coming off the White House. And there isn't any domestic policy."
Mr. Sununu, a former engineering professor, is proud of his I.Q., estimated at 180. But top Republicans said that once he was ensconced in the heady West Wing atmosphere, he seemed unable to grasp Washington's seven cardinal rules: 1. Don't make enemies you don't need to make.
2. Don't start believing you're indispensable.
3. Don't confuse what's good for you with what's good for the President.
4. Don't forget that you are not the elected official.
5. Don't start blaming the boss if you get into trouble.
6. Don't unilaterally announce you are going to run things, rather than letting the President announce who will run things.
7. Someone must pay the price when the polls plummet, and anyone who has maintained a high profile will be a prime target.
Mr. Sununu should have learned the lessons early.
Yet again tonight in an interview on the Cable News Network call-in program "Larry King Live," Mr. Sununu blamed others for his problems.
"I can't change my personality," he said. "Now I would say there is a perception of my personality out there" that is mistaken. Mr. Sununu said that since he had come from the academic world he liked to "argue it out" on issues. "In this city some people don't like doing that," he said.
But Mr. Sununu's critics did not object to a lively debate as much as they objected to what they called his gratuitous nastiness and belittling. As for his working relationship with Mr. Bush, he said he "never took a position or nuance different than his." He said Mr. Bush had suggested that he say he was not to blame for spontaneously mentioning a ceiling on credit card interest rates, adding that Mr. Bush said, "Hey, you tell them that I did it."'
But Republicans close to the White House said today that even if Mr. Bush had made such an offer, Mr. Sununu still should not have publicly blamed the President.
Whatever the cause for Mr. Sununu's downfall, it was a new day in the White House. One top Administration official said there was "a certain amount of relief that the ordeal is over," adding, "The last few days were like being at someone's wake before he's dead."
 
An Upbeat Parting
 Staff members around Mr. Sununu who were dependent on him for their positions were described as morose today. But many younger staff members, who felt that Mr. Sununu had stifled the flow of ideas and engaged in gratuitous belittling, were secretly celebrating.
"From talking to assistant secretaries and lower-level people in the White House, it's clear that they never forgave him for showing them the error in their memo in front of five other people," Mr. Bennett said.
But at the senior staff meeting this morning, Mr. Sununu gave a gracious summation. Appearing in an upbeat mood, he thanked his staff and paid tribute to Mr. Bush. He talked about the events in the world that had changed during his tenure, and he talked about what he felt the Administration had achieved on the clean air bill, the child care bill and the budget agreement.
He told the staff to "have fun," and added, "If you don't have fun, it's not worth doing."
Although one top aide in the meeting dryly noted that Mr. Sununu's advice to have fun was "not entirely consistent with his modus operandi when he was here," everyone seemed to appreciate the chief of staff's grace note.
Mr. Sununu jokingly apologized to Marlin Fitzwater, the President's press secretary, for stepping on Mr. Bush's message in speeches on the economy in Meridian, Miss., and Bradenton, Fla., on Tuesday.
And Mr. Sununu laughed when Bill Kristol, Vice President Dan Quayle's chief of staff, suggested that Meridian might be a dangerous place for chiefs of staff to allow Presidents to go. It was on the way home from an appearance in Meridian on April 27, 1973, that Richard M. Nixon talked to H. R. Haldeman about the possibility of having to dismiss him because of the unraveling Watergate scandal. Three days later, Mr. Nixon did.
Mr. Sununu goodnaturedly agreed that letting Mr. Bush go to Meridian had probably been a mistake.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John H. Sununu, the President's chief of staff, second from left, outside the White House last July with from left, Brent Scowcroft, Mr. Bush, and Marlin Fitzwater. In the end he found little Republican support. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); BUDGETS (64%); TAX LAW (62%); DEAFNESS (50%); 

PERSON: SUNUNU, JOHN H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DOWD, MAUREEN GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN SUNUNU (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



155 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Charles H. Keating Jr. was convicted of securities fraud in connection with the collapse of Lincoln Savings. A jury in Los Angeles found Mr. Keating guilty on 17 of 18 fraud counts after deliberating for more than two weeks. Mr. Keating faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. [Page A1.]
Pan Am finally died, broke and too weak to attempt yet another comeback. The shutdown means the jobs of 7,500 Pan Am employees, thousands of whom had worked in the New York area and were in the process of moving to Miami. [D1.]
Delta, USAir and Continental offered to honor most tickets issued by Pan Am, with some restrictions. [D6.]
Carolco said it had laid off 50 people from its staff of 200 and was considering whether to end or scale back deals with a number of film makers. [D1.]
I.B.M. plans to disclose today the first steps it will take on the road to fundamental change in its operations. [D1.]
Du Pont is planning a new round of belt tightening and productivity improvements, company officials said. [D5.]
 
The Economy
The economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate during the quarter that ended in September, an advance considerably less than initially estimated and a disappointment to both private analysts and the Bush Administration. [D1.]
A Fed survey showed that the nation's economy continued to weaken on the eve of the holiday shopping season. [D5.]
Congressional hearings on the economy will spotlight the fundamental difference between Republicans and Democrats over tax policy and what makes the economy tick. [B18.]
Sales of domestically made cars and light trucks rose 20.9 percent in late November, auto makers reported, and sales for the full month were down 6.7 percent from last year's level. Analysts said the low annual rate of six million for the full month gave a more accurate reflection of the depressed industry. [D2.]
The grueling push to overhaul the nation's banking laws will start all over next year, a top Presidential adviser and a senior member of Congress said. [D2.]
 
International
The Maxwell family is preparing to put its collection of private companies into the British equivalent of bankruptcy, a top adviser to the family's publishing empire said. [D1.]
Japan has poured billions of dollars and enormous energy into East Asia over the last decade, building car factories and electronics plants, while America's attention was elsewhere. [D1.]
 
Markets
Stocks closed mixed for the second day, as blue-chip issues again failed to keep pace with the overall market. The Dow fell 17.89, to 2,911.67. [D10.]
Prices of Treasury securities continued to rise and interest rates moved lower again. [D18.]
Coffee futures prices fell sharply after the Brazilian Government said it would be up to the factionalized private sector to develop a price-support plan. [D19.] The dollar ended weaker. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
The market for initial stock offerings by debt-laden private companies took a downward turn. Talking Deals. [D2.]
Retailers are changing the face they present to shoppers during the holiday season, shifting from the warm and fuzzy image-building long popular at this time of year to hard-selling product promotions. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D8.]
Analysts increased their estimates of Allergan's earnings after it signaled its intent to stop investing in its contact lens operation. Market Place. [D10.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS JURY TRIALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); SENTENCING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); FUTURES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); COFFEE MARKETS (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); COFFEE (60%); BANKING LAW (50%); PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES H KEATING JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



156 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Duke Takes His Anger Into 1992 Race

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
David Duke, the former grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan who polarized Louisiana politics with his angry campaigns against welfare and affirmative action, announced today that he was entering the race for the Republican Presidential nomination.
Mr. Duke, who declared his candidacy in a packed news conference at the National Press Building here, accused President Bush of "selling out" the Republican Party by signing a new civil rights bill, by raising taxes and by failing to protect American workers from foreign competition. 
 The former Klansman and one-time neo-Nazi touched on nearly every volatile issue in American politics: immigration, taxes, crime, racial preferences, "the welfare illegitimate birth rate," the undermining of "Christian society" to the point "where we can't even sing Christmas carols in many of our public schools anymore."
 
Racial Allusions in Speech
 Despite careful security, he was interrupted several times by protesters, but rarely missed a beat. His speech was riddled with allusions to race and ethnicity. On the subject of trade, he said, "We must go to the Japanese and say, 'You no buy our rice, we no buy your cars.' " He described the Democratic Party as the party of "Jesse Jackson and Ron Brown," referring to the former Presidential candidate and the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, both of whom are black.
He also mispronounced the name of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, pronouncing it, "Kew-mo." In every instance, when later asked, Mr. Duke replied he did not mean to make any racial or ethnic point.
Mr. Duke said he would be entering primaries around the country but suggested he saw particularly ripe opportunities in the South, where a cluster of states will hold primaries on March 10. He said he would not enter the Feb. 18 primary in New Hampshire, contending there was a lack of time. This means that Mr. Bush will now face a two-front challenge: in New Hampshire from Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator and former Nixon and Reagan White House aide who is expected to enter the race next Tuesday, and in the South from Mr. Duke.
Analysts say Mr. Duke's greatest peril to Mr. Bush could be if he uses the primaries to build a basis for an independent challenge next fall, which Mr. Duke said today he was "not ruling out." Few analysts expect Mr. Duke to pose anything like the challenge that George C. Wallace did in 1968 with his independent candidacy, when by some estimates the former Governor of Alabama captured more than 60 percent of the white vote in the Deep South states, and 14 percent of the total vote nationwide.
 
Complicating Primary Season
 But Mr. Duke could be troublesome for Mr. Bush, particularly in a close race in a bad economy, when an independent candidate getting 2 to 3 percent of the vote in a state could make a very big difference.
Republican strategists and analysts contend that neither Mr. Buchanan nor Mr. Duke poses a serious threat to Mr. Bush's renomination, although they certainly complicate a primary season that had been expected to be a mere formality for the Bush forces.
"They've got four things they never imagined would happen: Buchanan in New Hampshire, Duke in the South, the economy probably headed into a second-stage problem and the American electorate sick of Bush running around overseas," said Kevin Phillips, a conservative analyst.
The White House, which has repeatedly disavowed Mr. Duke and denied his claim to the Republican label, responded stonily to his announcement today. "We've denied him every way from Sunday," said Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman.
But the Republicans' inability to shake Mr. Duke was underscored today as the Presidential motorcade rolled back to the White House from a hotel where Mr. Bush was speaking. As the Presidential limousine turned a corner, the doors of a taxi flew open and Mr. Duke emerged to watch the procession. Mr. Bush later ignored reporters who asked if he had noticed.
 
Attacking Bush's Right Flank
 Mr. Duke clearly intends to nip at Mr. Bush's right flank. "We've had a bigger government under the Republican Administration; we've had bigger taxes, we've had affirmative action, we've had an increase in the welfare system, and we've had an increase in foreign aid," Mr. Duke said.
Mr. Duke said Mr. Bush had the opportunity even now to roll back affirmative action programs, adding, "I want to say this to George Bush -- you know, whether I run third party or not is going to depend on what he does."
The Duke Presidential candidacy has been expected almost from the moment he was defeated in last month's runoff for governor of Louisiana. Mr. Duke, a 41-year-old State Representative whose term ends on Jan. 12, was soundly defeated by former Gov. Edwin W. Edwards, a Democrat. But the former Klansman carried 55 percent of the white vote -- much of it, some analysts said, an angry protest vote against politics as usual. What is unknown, and what is sharply debated in political circles, is how transferable Mr. Duke's appeal is to other parts of the country.
It is also unclear whether Mr. Duke can sufficiently organize to compete in Republican primaries around the nation. Some Republicans said voters likely to participate in Republican Presidential primaries tended to be party regulars -- not the disaffected voters, many of them Democrats, who swelled Mr. Duke's vote in Louisiana.
 
Standard Themes
 Mr. Duke hit many of his standard themes today. For example, he argued, "We've got to reduce the welfare illegitimate birth rate," asserting that preference in housing allocations, job programs and other benefits should go to those "who go without having an illegitimate child over a certain period of time.'
He argued "whether we call affirmative action quotas or whether we simply call it racial preference," such policies discriminate against white people and were simply "wrong." Mr. Duke also denied the frequent charge that he is a racist, following his customary argument that his Klan activity was a youthful excess.
Mr. Duke said today that he believed immigration policies would be a major issue in the election, arguing that "the time has come in America to limit and stop the illegal immigration into our society." He added: "What's happening is, we are unraveling. We're losing our way. This country is overwhelmingly European descent. It's overwhelmingly Christian. And if we lose our underpinning, I think we're going to lose the foundations of America."
Mr. Duke's professed born-again Christianity came under fire toward the end of his campaign in Louisiana, when some Christian conservatives questioned his sincerity and suggested he was using religion as a political ploy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As David Duke, left, announced his candidacy for the Republican Presidential nomination, a security guard blocked a protester, Rabbi Avi Weiss, whose sign read, "David Duke Nazi of the 90's." (Reuters)
 
Chart: "David Ernest Duke"
 Republican Presidential Contender
 
Current Job: Louisiana State Representative since 1989. Term expires Jan. 12.
 
Born: July 1, 1950, in Tulsa, Okla.
 
Education: Louisiana State University, B.A. 1974.
 
Religion: Protestant.
 
Military service: None.
 
Martial status: Married to Chloe Hardin in 1975; divorced in 1984.
 
Children: Erika, 16; Kristin, 14.
 
Other government positions: None.
 
Other positions: Grand wizard, Kngihts of the Ku Klux Klan 1975-1980; founder and president, National Association for the Advancement of White People, 1980-1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;REPUBLICAN PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;REPUBLICAN PARTY LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TAXATION; CIVIL RIGHTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; ELECTION ISSUES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; WELFARE (US); ILLEGITIMACY; RELIGION AND CHURCHES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); RELIGION (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CHRISTMAS (76%); ETHNICITY (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DUKE, DAVID E (STATE REPR); TONER, ROBIN RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



157 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Its Cash Depleted, Pan Am Shuts

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
Pan American World Airways finally died yesterday -- broke and too weak to attempt yet another comeback -- two days after Delta Air Lines ended its financing arrangement.
The shutdown means the loss of the jobs of 7,500 Pan Am employees, thousands of whom had worked in the New York area and were in the process of moving to Miami to join the carrier at its new headquarters at Miami International Airport. 
 Economists in Dade County, Fla., said the airline's shutdown would result in the loss of about 9,000 jobs in that area when outside jobs dependent on the airline were taken into account.
Both Miami and New York had already lost many airline-industry jobs when Eastern Airlines shut downearlier this year.
"Today we see the end of an airline whose name will be forever forged in American history," said Russell L. Ray, the president and chief executive of Pan Am, which was founded in 1927 and was long a dominant carrier in global aviation.
Pan Am is the third big United States airline to stop flying this year as the industry struggles with declines in travel caused by the weak economy. Eastern Airlines ceased flying in January and Midway Airlines shut down last month.
Thousands of passengers, some on flights just preparing to take off, were stranded yesterday. Pan Am said that as a result of an earlier agreement with Delta Air Lines , its ticket holders would get comparable service on Delta or on some other airlines. A number of other airlines said they would honor Pan Am tickets, but some said they would not. [Page D6.]
Pan Am's airport gates and routes could be acquired by other carriers; among those that might be interested are Trans World Airlines, United Airlines and USAir. Indeed, Jeffrey Shane, the Assistant Secretary of Transportation, yesterday asked other carriers to apply for temporary permission to fly Pan Am's international routes.
American Airlines, a major carrier to the Caribbean and Latin America, said yesterday that it had asked the Transportation Department to allow it to add more flights to seven routes no longer served by Pan Am. John Hotard, a spokesman for American, said the airline already had authority to fly on the routes.
The routes are Miami to Buenos Aires, Grand Cayman, Rio de Janeiro and Mexico City, and New York to Rio, Buenos Aires and Mexico City.
 
An Uncertain Future
 But as of yesterday, it was unclear what would happen to Pan Am's workers and fleet of 58 planes, which is parked in Miami and John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York. Pan Am has already sold its terminal facilities at Kennedy to Delta, and still owns a maintenance area there.
After selling Delta its prime assets -- the East Coast shuttle and routes to Europe and points east -- Pan Am had hoped to emerge from bankruptcy-court protection as a smaller airline serving the Caribbean and Latin America. It had begun a small domestic system with a hub at Miami with the help of a financing package from Delta.
Under a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization plan that was to be considered last Tuesday by Judge Cornelius Blackshear, the unsecured creditors would have owned 55 percent of the airline and Delta 45 percent.
 
Plan Not Considered
 But the judge did not have a chance to consider the plan, even though major obstacles had been overcome. Agreements had been negotiated with five major unions at Pan Am for concessions worth $48 million and an agreement had been reached with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to deal with a shortfall of $900 million in Pan Am's pension funds.
The plan was scuttled when Delta, which had offset Pan Am's huge losses for months with $115 million in cash, decided it would no longer provide more cash.
Pan Am, with the help of its investment banker, Lazard Freres & Company, yesterday was looking for buyers for its Latin American routes, which at one time had been profitable.
Carl C. Icahn, the chairman of Trans World Airlines, said yesterday that "we are studying the Latin American routes to see if we want to make a bid."
 
Wary Travelers
 Even the backing of a strong carrier like Delta -- with money, advertising, staff and marketing expertise -- was not enough to reassure travelers and travel agents, many of whom avoided booking on the airline.
Estelle Lessack, the president of Travel Trends in Fort Lee, N.J., said that she did not avoid Pan Am outright in her bookings but added, "If there was another option, I usually took the other option."
She said that many of her clients were reluctant to fly Pan Am mainly because of memories of the loss of one of its Boeing 747's in an explosion over Lockerbie, Scotland, that killed all aboard.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of passengers were stranded yesterday at New York's Kennedy International Airport when Pan Am shut its operations. Iris Guzman, left, and Maria Rojas, who were two of 100 passengers taken off a flight to the Dominican Republic just before its takeoff, rested at a Pan Am counter. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Chronology: "The Selloff at a Pioneering Airline"
 
1980
 July 28: Pan American World Airways reached preliminary agreement to sell the Pan Am Building to Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for about $400 million, reportedly the highest price for a single building.
 
1981
 Aug. 21: The airline announced the sale of its Intercontinental Hotels subsidiary to Grand Metropolitan P.L.C. for $500 million in cash.
 
1985
 April 22: Pan Am agreed to sell its Pacific operations to United Airlines for $750 million.
 
1990
 May 18: With cash reserves dwindling, airline put its shuttle, serving Boston, New York and Washington, on the block.
 Oct. 23: The UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines, agreed to acquire Pan Am's London routes for $400 million.
 Nov. 11: Trans World Airlines and its chairman, Carl C. Icahn, offered to buy Pan Am, contingent on Pan Am's dropping its negotiations with United.
 Dec. 16: After T.W.A. agreed to sells its U.S.-to-London routes to American Airlines, Mr. Icahn bid $375 million for Pan Am.
 
1991
 Jan. 8: Pan Am Corporation filed for Chapter 11 protection.
 July 28: Pan Am agreed to sell its European routes, planes, Frankfurt operations and the shuttle to Delta for $460 million.
 Yesterday: Pan Am shutdown, one day after Delta refused to provide any more money for operations. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; DELTA AIR LINES PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (70%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; DELTA AIR LINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); CHRONOLOGIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); HISTORY (53%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS CARL ICAHN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



158 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Old Veterans Return to Mark a Day of Infamy

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Dec. 4

 BODY:
They are coming back to remember Pearl Harbor again.
Half a century after the surprise Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, which drew the United States into World War II, the old soldiers and sailors who survived that day of infamy are returning to ponder its meaning, honor the dead and socialize with old buddies. 
 The survivors are mostly gray and wrinkled now; many walk with canes or listen with hearing aids. And they are finding a Honolulu that has also changed vastly since the war ended with Japan's defeat in 1945. Fifty years after they attacked the American forces in Hawaii, the Japanese now own 61 percent of the hotel rooms in Honolulu and Japanese tourists are a mainstay of the Hawaiian economy.
C. A. Murray was a 21-year-old corporal in the Marines that fateful Sunday. He recalled the Japanese planes flying so low over the naval base that "I could see the bastards smiling." Today he stood on the second floor of the Sheraton-Waikiki Hotel, owned by a Japanese company, and watched Japanese tourists walk by.
"I'm sorry I didn't take Japanese in school," he said sarcastically, referring to all the signs in Japanese around him. "I don't have any animosities, but it rubs me the wrong way."
The hotels and streets of Waikiki have never seemed odder. Crowds of old veterans wearing peaked caps mixed with swarms of Japanese tourists, many of them young honeymooners. They walked past each other as if the other were invisible.
Officials of the Pearl Harbor Survivors Association said they expected about 2,400 survivors, plus their families and guests, for the anniversary events. They include a parade down Kalakaua Avenue, dinners, dances and a luau, and will culminate with a Saturday morning ceremony to be attended by President Bush at the memorial over the sunken battleship Arizona, where 1,117 sailors and marines died on Dec. 7, 1941.
Honolulu has been awaiting the 50th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor with no small trepidation, fearful that long-festering animosities against the Japanese would drive away free-spending Japanese tourists and bring grief to Japanese-Americans. But so far none of that has happened.
Kenji Ito, a longtime Japanese resident of Honolulu who is executive director of JTB Hawaii Inc., which brings three jumbo jets full of tourists from Japan every day, said bookings were normal for December.
"The majority of people here are playing it cool," he said. "I just hope we have a good relationship between Japan and Hawaii. We need each other."
William M. Kaneko, director of the local chapter of the Japanese American Citizens Association, a civil rights group, said there had been no untoward incidents yet. "Knock on wood," he added. "With 4,000 vets drinking beer with old Army buddies, it takes just one bad apple."
 
Reports of Remorse Doubted
 Among the returning survivors there was much talk today, as well as skepticism, about reports of official Japanese remorse over the attack. The Honolulu Advertiser this morning had a news article by The Washington Post from Tokyo quoting Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe as saying, "We feel deep remorse about the unbearable suffering and sorrow Japan inflicted on the American people and the peoples of Asia and the Pacific during the Pacific war, a war that Japan started by the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor."
All this was generally dismissed by the returning veterans as coming 50 years too late. But 50 years also appeared to have taken the edge off animosities. One survivor who returned, Victor J. Paradiss of Mankato, Minn., spent four years fighting the Japanese in the Pacific as a Navy fireman.
"I don't hold any hard feelings," said Mr. Paradis, now 72. "They were just taking orders from someone else. It's their world, too."
His wife, Lucille, agreed. "It's a new generation," she said. "They cannot help what their grandparents did. It's just that we won't buy a Japanese car."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (95%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PEARL HARBOR SURVIVORS ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEARL HARBOR SURVIVORS ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PEARL HARBOR (HAWAII); JAPAN; HAWAII UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); HAWAII, USA (95%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45) WORLD WAR II (94%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); VETERANS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); ARMIES (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); NAVIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); HEARING AIDS (56%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



159 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Limits Proposed for Race-Based Scholarships

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Education Secretary Lamar Alexander proposed rules today that would ban scholarships based exclusively on race except under specific circumstances.
But Mr. Alexander said race could still be used as one factor in awarding scholarships to achieve diversity on college campuses, along with other factors like geographic origin and economic background. 
 He said race-exclusive scholarships would be permitted when used to remedy proven discrimination, when Congress specifically created them or when a private donor gave the money and it did not result in the denial of aid to other students.
Colleges will have four years to implement the policy, and no current scholarships will be revoked, he said.
"What we're trying to do is create an area of certainty," Mr. Alexander said. He said the proposed regulations clarified what was permissible under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin.
Many college and university officials as well as civil rights leaders said the ruling would have a chilling affect on college applications by minority students, because following financial aid regulations was already a complex process for students and their families.
Mr. Alexander's decision cames after a seven-month review of a position taken last December by Michael L. Williams, Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights at the Education Department. Mr. Williams declared illegal a $100,000 scholarship for minorities created by the backers of the Fiesta Bowl college football game.
Colleges and universities and civil rights groups protested Mr. Williams's action, arguing that it would keep minorities out of higher education. In April, Mr. Alexander delayed it for more study.
Today, Mr. Alexander said the Fiesta Bowl scholarship would be legal because it was a private scholarship.
Tim Christensen, associate director of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, said Mr. Alexander's decision varied from Mr. Williams's only "in changing a couple of details."
He added, "I think it will discourage qualified minorities."
 
Administration Pattern
 Mr. Alexander's decision fits into the Bush Administration pattern on racial and affirmative action issues of seeking to satisfy conservative philosophical concerns while also seeking not to be racist. And some observers have suggested that the issue is being brought up because of the impending Presidential campaign.
William H. Gray 3d, the former House Democratic whip from Pennsylvania who now heads the United Negro College Fund, compared the scholarship ruling to the positions against affirmative action programs taken by David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader who recently lost the race for governor of Louisiana. Mr. Gray told The Associated Press: "It's beginning to smell awfully political to me. It has the stench of Louisiana politics."
There are relatively few race-exclusive scholarships, with about 35,000 students, and 3 percent of minority students, holding them. But they have become a lightning rod for those opposed to affirmative action programs.
Richard Samp, chief counsel of the Washington Legal Foundation, a conservative public interest and policy center, lauded Mr. Alexander's proposal, saying: "The cycle of racial discrimination has got to be brought to an end if we are ever going to achieve the idea of a color-blind society."
But others said today's announcement muddied a once-clear area.
"What is going to happen is that we're going to send a rather confusing and diffuse message to minority students," said Dr. Richard F. Rosser, president of the National Association of of Independent Colleges and Universities. "For a number of years, we've had minority based scholarships and now we will have to find other kinds of criteria to give them."
Today's actions focused specifically on race and left open the question of what effect it would have on scholarships for women or those designed for adherents of a particular religion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (53%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; BLACKS (IN US) SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); POLITICS (72%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); 

PERSON: DE WITT, KAREN; ALEXANDER, LAMAR (SEC) LAMAR ALEXANDER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



160 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Is Turning to Itself on Fare Increase

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Unusual forces are pushing transit officials toward a reluctant but inevitable conclusion: If they want to limit the size of the New York City subway and bus fare increase, they must find the money themselves, within the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
Increasing the fare -- never a simple political decision -- is complicated this year by three unusual elements. One is that neither the city nor the state has any new money to put into the system. Another is that cooperation from suburban legislators was undercut when the M.T.A. decided in October against raising fares on commuter railroads, severing a traditional link between city and suburban fares. 
 The third -- the Presidential ambitions of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo -- also looms over the process. Can a Democrat who speaks on behalf of large cities afford blame for a large subway increase when more affluent suburbanites have been spared?
All three forces have coalesced to press M.T.A. officials to search hard in the nooks and crannies of their own agencies for creative ways to avoid a huge fare increase.
Just three weeks ago, the Transit Authority, the M.T.A. subsidiary that operates the city's subways and buses, said that it would raise the $1.15 fare to $1.40 on Jan. 1 unless the state provided additional subsidies.
But since then, transit officials have shifted gears, indicating a willingness to consider a variety of proposals to alter the way the M.T.A. does business -- provided that in return the Legislature approves the authority's stalled five-year capital plan.
Transit officials said on Tuesday that they were considering a number of ideas. Among them are shifting money from suburban commuter lines to the subways and buses, raising tolls on bridges and tunnels, or trimming further the Transit Authority's budget.
The various scenarios under consideration could limit the size of the fare increase. If the commuter railroads in essence gave $90 million to the Transit Authority, that could produce a fare of $1.30; if other proposals were also accepted, the fare might go to $1.25.
 
An Uncertain Fate
 But while transit officials are being pressed to solve their own financial problems, they say they do not even have the power to do it on their own. Many of the proposals would require the approval of the Legislature, where their fate appears uncertain.
So transit officials, desperate to stave off a $1.40 fare, are trying to broker a broader settlement. If they do their part -- by agreeing to reallocate how money is shared by the city and suburban lines or by paring further the Transit Authority budget -- will the Governor push, and state lawmakers approve, the M.T.A.'s $10.6 billion five-year capital plan?
Peter E. Stangl, the M.T.A. chairman, said in an interview on Tuesday that the plan to shift $90 million from the commuter lines to the Transit Authority was under consideration. The New York Times reported yesterday that Mr. Stangl had endorsed the idea and hoped it would induce the Legislature to approve the comprehensive five-year plan.
But Mr. Stangl said yesterday that he had been misunderstood and that he would support the shift of funds only if it was part of a more broad-based agreement on fares, tolls and operating and capital expenses.
"I'm not fixed on any one fare strategy," Mr. Stangl said. "My concern is that these ideas must be considered within the context of solving our problems over the next five years and not the next six months."
In most previous fare fights, the Legislature rode to the rescue by creating new tax revenues for additional transit operating subsidies, thereby maintaining the fare or limiting an increase.
But with legislators now debating how to close an $875 million gap in the current state budget, and the region struggling through a grueling recession, new taxes for mass transit are unlikely.
The political balance that the M.T.A. brought to Albany in past years has also been altered this year. The authority's board voted in October to hold the fare in 1992 on the Long Island and Metro-North commuter rail lines, severing a 20-year link between fares in the city and suburbs.
That makes it harder to get both city and suburban legislators to support measures to aid the M.T.A.
Further complicating the maneuvering is a larger political question: Will Mr. Cuomo run for President? Transit riders' groups traditionally try to personalize the fare debate, to force governors and mayors to risk blame for a fare increase and thus goad them into action to prevent it. This year has been no different; the groups' representatives brought life-size cardboard photos of the Governor to hearings on the fare increase.
"I think the problem the Governor has is explaining why the suburban railroads do not have a fare hike," said Gene Russianoff, staff attorney with the Straphangers Campaign.
"There is a lot of agita over this in Albany and City Hall," he said.
Mr. Cuomo has said little publicly. In a letter to Mr. Stangl last week, the Governor said he was not convinced a $1.40 fare was necessary and he suggested several small savings that, by themselves, would have limited impact on the Transit Authority's projected $263 million deficit in 1992.
The pace of private negotiations, though, has begun to pick up. "A lot of people are looking at this," Mr. Stangl said. "We've been talking and working with the Governor's staff."
No final decisions have been made, he said, and many matters remain to be resolved before the M.T.A. board votes on Dec. 20 on the subway and bus fare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FARES; BUSES; SUBWAYS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (62%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



161 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: 10-Day Sales Of Vehicles Up by 20.9%

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Sales of domestically made cars and light trucks rose 20.9 percent in late November, auto makers reported today, but sales for the full month were down 6.7 percent from last year's level.
Analysts said the low annual selling rate of six million for the full month provided a more accurate reflection of the depressed auto industry in recent months. 
 Although industry executives saw the 10-day figures as a glimmer of hope, analysts said several factors had artificially inflated the numbers, and that underlying retail demand remained weak.
Analysts noted that auto makers reported dismal sales for the late November period last year, making a year-to-year gain easily attainable. Sales to rental fleets and corporate customers skewed the figures somewhat, analysts said. "There is some smoke and mirrors," said Jack V. Kirnan, an automotive analyst with Kidder, Peabody & Company in New York.
 
Selling Rate of Cars
 The seasonally adjusted annual selling rate for American-built cars was 6.3 million for the late November period, compared with 5.3 million cars for the year-earlier period.
Still, industry executives seized upon the year-to-year gains. Robert L. Rewey, vice president of sales operations for the Ford Motor Company's North American automotive operations, said Ford's late November sales gains "provide evidence that the U.S. economy is stronger than surveys of consumer sentiment suggest."
And Tom Webb, chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association, was optimistic that the auto industry may be turning the corner. He said the Big Three had managed to revive sales with attractive lease and finance packages that are overcoming consumers' lack of confidence in the future of the economy.
Other indicators suggest that the auto makers are not optimistic about the short-term future of the auto industry. The Big Three recently slashed 243,000 vehicles from their production plans for December through March.
Several dealers also said they did not expect to see sales pick up until the second quarter of 1992, when they believe the Presidential campaign will prompt Washington to try to encourage spending and lead consumers to dealer showrooms. "I have never not made good money during election year," said Scott Reas of Reas Chevrolet Oldsmobile Geo in Richmond, Mich.
 
Hope Lies With Politicians
 Mike Shad, who owns a Ford dealership in Jacksonville, Fla., agreed that the slumping market will likely last until spring. "Something is going to happen in politics" to spur the economy, he said.
For the 10 days that ended on Nov. 30, domestic car sales totaled 180,084, up 17.5 percent from 1990. Light-truck sales rose 27.2 percent, to 104,269, from the period a year earlier.
During the month of November, American auto makers won back market share in the car market including imports, from the Japanese manufacturers, which have been scoring steady gains. The Big Three held 62.3 percent of the market, compared with 60.1 in the year-earlier period. Japanese car makers saw their share drop to 29.6 percent, from 30.9 percent in November 1990. The market share of non-Japanese importers fell to 8.1 percent in November from 9.0 percent last year.
For the entire month, sales of all cars and trucks, domestic and imported, fell 6.7 percent to 917,276 from 983,158 a year earlier. General Motors sold 214,914 North American-built cars in November, a gain of 1.7 percent from a year earlier; Ford sold 108,507, a drop of 15.5 percent, and Chrysler sold 56,071, down 9.1 percent.
G.M.'s total market share for all cars in November was 36.5 percent, compared with 33.2 percent in November 1990. Ford had a 19.2 percent share, compared with 20.2 percent a year earlier. Chrylser's total market share was 10.1 percent, down from 10.2 percent. Toyota Motor 's market share was 9.2 percent, up from 8.6 percent. Honda Motor 's share was 9.7 percent, down from 11.6 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "U.S. Vehicle Sales" shows overall sales of cars assembled in U.S., Canada and Mexico, June 1990-Nov. 1991, and November 1991 car and light truck sales by maker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (69%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); POLITICS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKET SHARE (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



162 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Continue to Rise

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities continued to rise and interest rates moved lower again yesterday, as investors eager to capture higher yields concentrated their purchases on longer-term notes and bonds.
A number of developments during the session seemed to reduce the risk of buying longer-term, higher-yielding securities, which because of their maturity are generally seen as speculative investments. 
 The news included more evidence that the economy remains soft, as well as comments by President Bush and Robert Parry, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, that were well received by bond traders.
The economic data included another weak report from the nation's auto makers, which reported that 6.2 million vehicles were sold during the last 10 days of November at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. The numbers were slightly better than sales during the middle 10 days of the month, but analysts said that sales for the entire period probably did not exceed six million, a very low level.
 
Other Sign of Weakness
 Revisions in the third-quarter growth rate of the gross national product, announced yesterday by the Commerce Department, also reinforced the notion that the economy was still very weak, analysts said.
The changes showed that inventory accumulation during the summer quarter was much bigger than expected, and that final demand was weaker.
"Those changes leave us vulnerable to a negative growth number in the fourth quarter and again in the first quarter," said Joseph Liro, a senior vice president and money market economist at S. G. Warburg & Company.
The revisions were announced only a few hours before Mr. Parry, who will become a voting member of the Federal Reserve's policy-making Open Market Committee next year, told an audience in Seattle that because of favorable inflation trends, the Fed has more leeway to push interest rates lower to stimulate the economy.
Meanwhile, President Bush was reported as saying yesterday that he did not want any economic stimulus package that would increase the size of the Federal budget deficit.
"Mr. Bush's comments that he won't throw in the towel in fiscal policy helped the market," said Steven A. Wood, director of financial markets research at the Bank of America.
 
Searching for Yields
 For the second straight session, most of the buying activity was concentrated among longer-term notes and bonds. "The search for yield is on," a bond trader said.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 101 3/4 late yesterday, up 18/32, to yield 7.84 percent, compared with 7.89 percent late Tuesday.
In the secondary market for Treasury notes, demand for the 7.50 percent 10-year securities remained strong. In late trading, those securities were offered at 102 7/32, up 19/32, to yield 7.18 percent.
Among other note issues, the 6.50 percent five-year notes were offered at 100 29/32, up 11/32, to yield 6.28 percent. And the 5.50 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 17/32, up 3/32, to yield 5.21 percent.
 
Lower Treasury Bill Rates
 Rates on short-term Treasury bills continued to move lower. Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 4.30 percent late yesterday, down four basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by a similar amount, to a late offered rate of 4.29 percent.
New-issue activity remained strong in the municipal bond market. Among the issues priced yesterday was a negotiated sale of $337 million worth of serial and term bonds for the New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation.
Serial bonds were preliminarily priced with yields from 4.90 percent in 1993 to 6.75 percent on bonds maturing in 2005.
A term bond that matures in 2010 was priced to yield 6.996 percent. And securities maturing in 2014 were priced to yield 6.95 percent.
Goldman, Sachs & Company acted as lead manager for the underwriting. The securities are rated AA by Moody's Investors Service and A by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
K Mart's Securities
 In the investment-grade corporate bond market, the K Mart Corporation offered $200 million worth of 15-year securities through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley & Company.
The 8.25 percent notes were priced at $99.50 to yield 8.183 percent, 97 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7.50 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are noncallable for life and are rated A-1 by Moody's and A by Standard & Poor's. As a result of strong demand, the size of the issue was increased from $100 million.
The rally in the Government securities market did not provide a great deal of support in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds. Traders said that prices of most issues were up, but only by about 1/8 point to 1/4 point.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, prices of most widely quoted issues improved by about 1/4 point, dealers said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (71%); S G WARBURG & CO LTD (66%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%); AUTOMAKERS (54%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



163 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: State Sues Potamkin, Citing Tactics in Car Sales

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
The Potamkin group of car dealerships routinely used "bait-and-switch tactics" and other deceptive sales practices, the New York State Attorney General charged in a suit filed yesterday.
Bait-and-switch tactics involve promises made in advertisements that are not kept when the customer arrives to buy the product. Customers arriving at Potamkin dealerships, Attorney General Robert Abrams said, were told "that they don't qualify for the offer, that the company just ran 'out of stock,' or that the advertisement was a 'mistake.' " 
 A lawyer for Potamkin, Stanley S. Arkin, said yesterday in a written statement that the Attorney General's office had based its case on a "minuscule number of complaints." He also said that the suit was motivated by the political ambitions of Mr. Abrams, who is seeking the Democratic nomination to run for the United States Senate seat held by Alfonse M. D'Amato, a Republican.
Mr. Abrams denied last night that the action was linked in any way to his political ambitions and said it was based on a history of problems with Potamkin. In a phone interview, Mr. Abrams said: "In 1983, we made an agreement with the Potamkin dealerships that they would end their abusive tactics. Since then, we have received more than 400 complaints involving bait-and-switch advertising, failure to return deposits and reneging on commitments to provide low-interest rates for financing.
"This time," Mr. Abrams said, "because it was a violation of that agreement, we had to go to court to seek damages for consumers who were defrauded, to impose fines and penalties and to obtain a court injunction" to prevent future violations.
The suit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, cites 115 complaints filed with the Attorney General in the last two years, said Edward Barbini, an Abrams spokesman.
Mr. Arkin said last night that the suit involved four Potamkin dealerships, all in New York City. Mr. Barbini said it involved four umbrella corporations for the Potamkin group, which has about 50 dealerships in five states on the East Coast. Sales in 1990 totaled nearly $800 million.
In his written statement, Mr. Arkin said: "The Attorney General has alleged a minuscule number of complaints over three years that amount to about 1/25th of 1 percent of 250,000 consumer contacts at Potamkin dealerships. He has taken a few drops from the ocean and is attempting to portray a tidal wave.
"To take 40 unhappy customers out of thousands upon thousands and try to portray their problems -- real or perceived -- as typical, is totally misleading," Mr. Arkin said.
"What is even more puzzling," he said, "is that virtually all of these complaints have already been resolved. Any fair-minded person will understand the motive here is the Attorney General's quest for publicity as he seeks higher office."
Mr. Arkin said that "over half" of the 115 complaints cited were resolved "to the satisfaction of the customer."
But Mr. Barbini disputed that assertion, and added: "The overall number of complaints points to a significant problem with the sales practices of Potamkin. That's the real issue."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: POTAMKIN GROUP

ORGANIZATION: POTAMKIN GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; ADVERTISING ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); LAWYERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); DAMAGES (77%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); HEVESI, DENNIS ALFONSE M D'AMATO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



164 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Plunge in Boeing's Stock

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The stock of the Boeing Company fell today after the chief executive said Boeing would not be able to maintain planned production levels if the market for aircraft failed to improve.
"I'm disappointed the recovery of the economy hasn't occurred faster," Frank A. Shrontz said after a speech to American military officials and industry executives. "The U.S. market at the moment is very uncertain for the next year."
Boeing fell $3.125, to $41.375, on the Big Board, its lowest level in more than a year. It was the exchange's third-most-active issue, with a volume of 2.3 million shares.
"All the bad news coming out of the airlines certainly tends to support the bear case rather than the bull case," said Paul Nisbet of Prudential Securities Inc.
The latest bad news came from the Pan Am Corporation, which ceased operations after it was unable to come up with financing to get out of bankruptcy.
Pan Am had long been one of Boeing's largest commercial customers, buying 208 jets beginning in 1955, although it had no aircraft on order at the time of its demise.
Mr. Shrontz called the Pan Am shutdown "a sad state of affairs" but declined to comment further.
Mr. Shrontz said he remained confident that Boeing's commercial aircraft backlog, worth nearly $100 billion, would remain firm, noting that 60 percent of the company's sales were made outside the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (96%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (85%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS (CORPORATE) EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRLINES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (72%); 

PERSON: FRANK A SHRONTZ (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



165 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

False Start for Mideast Talks
Syrian, Lebanese, Jordanian and Palestinian negotiators gathered in Washington for peace talks but quickly departed after the Israelis failed to turn up. Page A11.
 
A Grim Economic Report
 The economy grew at an annual rate of 1.7 percent in the third quarter, considerably less than first estimated and a disappointment to analysts and the White House. Page D1.
 
Scholarship Limits Proposed
 Education Secretary Lamar Alexander announced a proposal to ban scholarships based exclusively on the recipient's race except in some circumstances. Page A26.
 
Earliest American Books
 Scholars say that illustrations on a ceramic vessel suggest that the ancient Maya civilization was using books 500 years earlier than previously believed. Page A12.
 
Pan Am Is Shut Down
 Short of cash and unable to attract more, the airline closed its doors, lay ing off thousands. Page D1.
 
Maxwell Troubles Mount
 The Maxwell publishing family was said to be preparing to put its private companies into bankruptcy. Page D1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (91%); SYRIA (91%); JORDAN (90%); LEBANON (90%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (91%); SYRIA (91%); JORDAN (90%); LEBANON (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (85%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CLOSINGS (66%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); 

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



166 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Added Cuts Are Planned By Du Pont

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
The Du Pont Company, hoping to make a substantial gain in profits, is planning a new round of belt tightening and productivity improvements, company officials said yesterday.
The program, which is still being prepared, will be different from a plan announced in July to cut costs by $1 billion and reduce employment by 5,500 jobs, in that the new plan does not have firm targets for cutting costs or the work force, said Edgar S. Woolard Jr., chairman of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company. 
 "This is not a phase two of what we announced in July," he said. "It is an effort to see if we can get people to work more efficiently together. We estimate if we are successful, it has the potential to improve profits by up to $2 billion, with about half of that coming from increased production in existing plants and the other half from things like reduced cycle time and less redundancy."
 
No Involuntary Layoffs Yet
 Mr. Woolard said the program would probably reduce overall employment in the company, but said there is "no head-count reduction target for 1992."
In July the company said that because of sluggish growth in the United States, it was planning to cut costs in its chemicals businesses by $1 billion by the end of next year. Since then, various operating units have announced that a total of 5,500 jobs will be eliminated.
Du Pont has about 80,000 employees in its chemical operations and another 20,000 in oil and coal. The energy operations were not affected by the cutbacks.
Mr. Woolard said the two-year program was on track, adding, "We will get 55 to 60 percent of the savings in 1992 and the remainder in 1993." He said that more than 3,000 Du Pont employees had accepted incentives to take early retirement and that there had been no involuntary layoffs so far.
 
A Bottom-Up Plan
 Mr. Woolard said the $1 billion program had been imposed from the top down. The $2 billion plan, he said, would be more bottom up, as the company's 30 individual businesses modify their structure to operate more efficiently.
One effort will be to get workers who handle engineering, purchasing and distribution to work more closely with manufacturing. "We want to try to have the people in plants and offices to work effectively together," he said.
Du Pont's profits have slumped as a result of the recession. A consensus of analyst estimates would have the company earning about $2 billion, or about $3 a share, in 1991 before nonrecurring items. That would compare with $2.3 billion, or $3.40 a share, last year. Du Pont has said the one-time charge for its cost-cutting campaign could be as much as $500 million this year.
In trading today on the New York Stock Exchange, Du Pont shares rose 62.5 cents each to close at $45.625.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR LAYOFFS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



167 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: On L.I., the Anti-Tax Prophets Come In From the Wilderness

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY SOUTH, L.I., Dec. 4

 BODY:
At Pat Friedman's house, the green-shingled Cape Cod on Roxbury Road South, the one with the tiny lot where the trees are bedecked with blue ribbon, property taxes have been rising, but not without a fight.
For most of the last three decades -- as her property taxes have gone from $550 a year to nearly $5,500 -- Mrs. Friedman has been one of a small band of activists who have crisscrossed Long Island, railing, often in vain, against slothful government and soaring property taxes. 
 But now, as unemployment and recession continue their rampage through the region and across the country, and fear routs optimism, the anti-tax prophets have come in from the wilderness.
 
An Attitude Changed
 "Over the years they have called us gadflies and worse, but they don't view us that way now," said Mrs. Friedman as she sat on her living-room couch, holding a 100-yard reel of blue ribbon and plotting the next step in a campaign to roll back county taxes.
In Nassau County, where protests are rare and people usually prefer tending their gardens to attending public meetings, the anti-tax movement has reached the highest pitch since the late 1970's when a move to limit taxes in California sparked copycat efforts across the suburbs.
In the last few months, blue ribbons, the new symbols of the anti-tax movement, have begun appearing on lightpoles near public buildings here, a talk show host has collected 7,000 signatures on anti-tax petitions and Democrats, abetted by Rita Mezzapelle and her Tax Cut Party, made important gains in the County Legislature.
And in another sign of the times, tax foes have gained control over several school boards that had passed sharp tax increases in response to state aid cuts. Mrs. Friedman, the president of the Garden City South Civic Association, was swept into office as the president of the Franklin Square school district and immediately set about cutting spending, consolidating classes and laying off teachers.
 
Hundreds Protest
 On Tuesday night Mrs. Friedman joined with hundreds of other people, some wearing blue ribbons and carrying blue balloons, who descended on a county budget hearing to protest proposals to increase property taxes 25 percent and impose a new sales tax on home heating oil.
Outside, thousands of county workers picketed, demanding that the county rescind furloughs ordered for more than 10,000 county workers, a move that could put pressure on the county to raise taxes even further.
In a letter to Mrs. Friedman, the County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, declared that he "enthusiastically" supported the goals of a tax revolt rally she organized, and declared that local government, including the county he has headed for nearly five years, "must be completely overhauled."
"The time for talk is over," he wrote. "The time for action is now!"
What is going on recalls the events in 1978, when a county budget hearing overflowed with people fighting increases in property taxes and calling for the repeal of the home heating oil tax that was, in fact, swiftly repealed. That is the same tax Mr. Gulotta proposed reimposing this year, only to change his mind a few days later.
 
'A Lot of Anger Out There'
 "There is a lot of anger out there," said Richard M. Kessel, the executive director of the New York State Consumer Protection Board, who was a leader of the earlier tax protest. "It seems that all that has changed from the last tax revolt to this tax revolt is that the taxes have gone up."
But Mrs. Friedman and other longtime civic leaders say that much more has changed. In the past, they said, tax protests mainly stirred the passions and shook the pocketbooks of elderly homeowners living on fixed incomes. This time, they say, the business establishment -- in its own restrained way -- has joined in the tax revolt.
"Long Island's economy is hurting," said James L. Larocca, president of the Long Island Association, a business group, at Tuesday night's hearing. "Business and residents are suffering. The absolute last thing we need are more taxes."
Mrs. Friedman became troubled over property taxes as she watched members of her civic association struggle to pay their bills. The wife of an electrician foreman, she raised two children before going back to school in her 40's. She graduated summa cum laude from Adelphi University after serving as president of the adult student government.
For years, she said, most homeowners ignored complaints about rising taxes because home values were rising at the same time. But that changed when real estate values began to tumble.
The elderly, fed up with taxes, used to be able to sell their homes and move. Now they are stuck. One elderly woman in Hempstead, Mrs. Friedman said, continues to give piano lessons simply to pay her tax bills on a house she has been unable to sell. She said the woman, who received $5,000 in Social Security payments last year, paid $6,000 in property taxes. This year her school taxes are to go up by $786.
Mrs. Friedman sees herself as a member of the permanent loyal opposition to the party in power, especially during decades when the Republican Party dominates local government, and the Democrats are all but irrelevant. Her main goal now: replace all property taxes with a tax on income.
Other anti-tax activists have moved from civic groups to politics, out of frustration. Rita Mezzapelle, the publisher of The Elmont Herald, founded the Tax Cut Party three years ago after seeing her complaints as civic leader either ignored or studied to death.
In November the party helped a Democrat, Assemblyman Lewis J. Yevoli, defeat an incumbent Republican as Supervisor for the Town of Oyster Bay, a move that gave Democrats veto power over county spending for the first time in more than 70 years.
While the Republicans see the Tax Cut party as a tool of the Democrats, Ms. Mezzapelle said, her goal is to re-establish a balance of power between the parties as a way of controlling spending. She said her party was prepared to support right-thinking Republicans as well.
 
An Activist Radio Host
 And then there is the role played by "Good Morning, Long Island," a new talk show on two Long Island radio stations, WGSM in Huntington and WGBB in Freeport, that took the tax issue to the air for four hours a day for almost all of last week.
Paul Lyle, the show's host, brought a dozen turkeys to a meeting of the Suffolk County Legislature at which 12 legislators raised taxes by overriding the County Executive's veto. He placed a half-page ad that cost $12,000 in Newsday, asking readers to send back an anti-tax coupon. He said he received 7,000 responses.
"We found that tax increases were at the point where they were causing strangulation," he said. "I get calls from people every day saying, 'I don't know if I can keep living here, I may have to get out.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Over the years they have called us gadflies and worse, but they don't view us that way now," said Pat Friedman, of Garden City, L.I., who has been one of a small band of people fighting soaring property taxes on Long Island. She posted a flier in a campaign to roll back county taxes. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PROPERTY TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); COUNTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); SALES TAX (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); FUEL TAX (72%); PETITIONS (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); SCHOOL BOARDS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); SUBURBS (65%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); HEATING OIL (60%); 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



168 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: John C. Miller, 83; Writer and Professor Of American History

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
John C. Miller, a retired professor at Stanford University who wrote several major books about early American history that won praise for their scholarship and analysis, died Sunday at Stanford University Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 83 years old and lived in Palo Alto.
He died of liver cancer, his family said. 
 Mr. Miller wrote a dozen books about the American Revolution and the early years of the nation.
Critics praised him for research and fresh insights dispelling myths. They said his work captured the color and personalities of history while plumbing political, social and economic forces.
Born in Santa Barbara, Calif., he grew up in Tacoma, Wash. He was a graduate of Harvard University, where, studying under Samuel Eliot Morison, he also earned his master's and doctoral degrees in history.
After traveling in Europe on a fellowship, he wrote his first book, "Sam Adams, Pioneer in Propaganda" (Little, Brown, 1936), which delved into the often devious methods of that founding father. It was a Book-of-the-Month Club reserve selection and was described in a review in The New York Times as a "distinguished contribution."
His next volume was "Origins of the American Revolution" (Atlantic Monthly Press, 1943). A review in The Times said the work's urbanity, scholarship and clarity deserved "a very wide public," and it became a Book-of-the-Month selection.
In all, Mr. Miller's career as a writer of history spanned more than four decades. His last book was "The Wolf by the Ears: Thomas Jefferson and Slavery" (Free Press, 1977).
In his academic career, he taught history at Bryn Mawr College from 1939 to 1949 and at Stanford from 1950 to 1973.
He is survived by his wife, the former Gladys Johnson; three sons, Jeffrey B. of Friday Harbor, Wash., Charles A. of Palo Alto and John H. of Tokyo, and three grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); HISTORY (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WRITERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); CANCER (72%); LIVER DISEASE (57%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JOHN C SAMUEL ELIOT MORISON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



169 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Economy Expands Sluggishly

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The Government reported today that the economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate during the quarter that ended in September, an advance considerably less than initially estimated and a disappointment to both private analysts and the Bush Administration.
The bad news, coming just before the beginning of an election year, is sure to increase the political pressure on the Bush Administration to take steps to spur the economy. In a speech today to the American Enterprise Institute, President Bush promised to offer a package of common sense economic proposals in his State of the Union Message next month. 
 Marlin Fitzwater, a White House spokesman, acknowledged increased worries. "I think everybody understands that the economy has got real problems," he stated.
 
More Chances for Downturn
 Although the statistics show two straight quarters of expansion, economists noted that most data published so far for October and November indicated that the recovery had halted. Some suggested that a jump in inventories disclosed today raised the chances of a renewed downturn, since higher inventories prompt businesses to cut back on purchases.
In a separate report, a survey conducted by the Federal Reserve found "flagging momentum in the economic recovery" for several weeks. The middle of the country continued to inch ahead while most other areas experienced "stable to slightly weaker" business activity.
The 1.7 percent growth rate for the third quarter as measured by gross domestic product compared with a previously estimated 2.5 percent pace.
 
Data Cannot Be Compared
 With the gross national product, which the Government previously stressed, the revision was somewhat less -- to 2 percent from 2.4 percent. But these two figures are not directly comparable since they use different inflation adjustments.
The most surprising revision, said Gordon Richards, an economist for the National Association of Manufacturers, was that investment in equipment rose only $5.7 billion instead of more than $15 billion, an indication that businesses do not expect a strong recovery.
This revision also partly reflects a higher estimate for the preceding quarter and an inflation readjustment based on 1987 prices instead of 1982 prices. The readjustment, among other things, lowers the prices for computers used in calculating the value of total output.
Over all, Mr. Richards said, today's figures show the economy was "a bit stronger in the second quarter than previously estimated and a bit weaker in the third, with more of the growth coming from inventory accumulation and less from equipment investment."
The mass of statistics published today included recalculations of other earlier data to substitute 1987 prices for 1982 prices, updated figures and changes in some definitions as well as a shift to the G.D.P. from the G.N.P. as the primary indicator of total output.
The G.D.P., like the G.N.P., is generally defined as the value of the economy's total output of goods and services. But the G.D.P. counts only activity taking place within the borders of the United States, excluding the effect of an American who commutes to a Canadian factory or Japanese profits from an auto plant in this country.
 
Mistakes Acknowledged
 The Commerce Department acknowledged that it had made mistakes in some of the data released today, but said that the G.D.P. totals were not affected.
Today's report also indicated that corporate profits were lackluster at best. In the Commerce Department's first compilation of the quarter's earnings, profits from current production rose $400 million, or one-tenth of 1 percent, following a five-tenths of 1 percent increase in the second quarter.
But current production cash flow -- the internal funds available for investment -- fell $2.7 billion, or six-tenths of 1 percent. In the spring there was a rise of three-tenths of 1 percent.
 
Recovery Only Partial
 The 1.7 percent rate of increase in the G.D.P. during the summer followed a 1.4 percent spring advance -- revised up from a three-tenths of 1 percent gain -- and declines for the two preceding quarters of 3.9 percent and 2.5 percent.
"It is no solace that the second-quarter figures were revised upward because that gain was more than offset by worse third-quarter performance," said Lawrence A. Hunter, acting chief economist for the United States Chamber of Commerce. "Now we see that the economy has recovered only 46.7 percent of the almost $80 billion drop in gross domestic product since the recession began, compared to 52.9 percent previously reported."
Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist for the PNC Financial Corporation in Pittsburgh, said it appeared that imported and domestic goods increasingly piled up unsold during the third quarter, helping to create a weak footing for the start the fourth.
 
Few Signs of Growth
 "I see little or no sign of growth" for the current quarter, Mr. Hoffman added.
Without adjusting current prices for inflation, the G.D.P. rose at a 3.9 percent rate in the third quarter after rising at a 4.6 percent pace in the spring, today's report showed. The price indexes normally published with output figures will not be available until the final estimate of the third-quarter G.D.P. on Dec. 20, the Commerce Department said.
Among the results of recalculating historic data using 1987 prices was the discovery that the economy grew somewhat more slowly than had been thought during the period from 1977 to 1990. The G.D.P., adjusted for inflation, rose an average of 2.5 percent a year instead of 2.7 percent. These figures were the same for the G.N.P.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Real Economic Growth" shows annual rate of change in gross domestic product and the gross national product based on 1987 dollars, by quarter, II-1987 through III-1991 (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D18)
 
"Corporate Profits" shows total corporate profits after taxes, by quarter, II-1987 through III-1991 (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



170 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: LIBYAN MAINTAINS HE HOLDS SUSPECTS

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The new chief of Libyan intelligence services asserted in an interview published today that he had ordered the detention of two Libyan officials accused by the United States and Britain of carrying out the bombing of a Pan Am airplane in 1988.
The statement appears to be an unusual Libyan attempt to diffuse growing tensions with the United States and Western Europe over the charges during what Arab and foreign diplomats say is a growing fear by Libya that it may be subject to a military attack or a stringent economic boycott. 
 In a front page interview published this morning in the Saudi daily Asharq Al-Awsat, the intelligence chief, Col. Yusef Abdelqader el-Debri asserted that he had begun an investigation of the American and British charges, but reiterated Libya's refusal to extradite the two either to the United States or Britain to face charges there.
Colonel Debri added that four other Libyan officials accused by the French authorities of bombing a French airliner in 1989 were also detained but that no investigation had started yet.
A number of Arab diplomats expressed skepticism about Libya's intentions to conduct serious investigations of those accused in the two bombings.
 
Concerned With Image
 The Libyan official conceded that "Libya's image abroad is distorted and it must be reviewed," adding that this was among his new functions as chief of Libyan security services.
Those accused of the bombings, in which 441 people died, are reportedly all members of the Libyan secret services.
Colonel Debri said Libya was prepared "to cooperate and present all necessary information" to investigators of the two bombings in the United States, Britain and France and hinted that he would cooperate with foreign security services "to preserve security in the world and in the region."
But when asked if Libya planned to end its support to armed groups around the world, like the Irish Republican Army and other terror groups whose names have been associated with Libya, he replied only that "this kind of change is premature."
Asked if Libya is contemplating a change in its conduct of foreign policy with the aim of diverting accusations that it has engaged in violent acts abroad and if he planned to purge Libyan secret services, Colonel Debri answered "definitely."
The unusually conciliatory statements by the Libyan official reflect what Arab diplomats here say is a growing fear in Libya that the United States and Britain may undertake military action against the country in a matter of weeks if it failed to comply with the extradition requests.
In the last few days Libya has multiplied its contacts with Arab and foreign countries in an attempt to rally their support for Libya. While virtually all Arab nations have said they will not support any military actions against Libya, there has been a palpable lack of enthusiasm among them to oppose further economic sanctions against Libya.
Western Europe has already signaled this week the possibility of imposing economic sanctions on Libya, including a boycott of Libyan crude oil, to force the Government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi to comply with the extradition requests.
 
Europeans Prepare Response
 In a tough statement on Monday the European Community hinted that it might act within weeks and a senior British foreign office official who visited Algeria, Tunisia and Malta this week to urge their support for the British extradition request would not deny reports in the British press that United States airmen in England were training to bomb Libya again, as they did in 1986.
The British official, the Foreign Office minister Douglas Hogg also visited Egypt today calling upon President Hosni Mubarak who maintains a good personal relationship with Colonel Qaddafi to press Britain's request.
"There are a whole range of options which are available to us but at the moment we are concentratting on persuading Colonel Qaddafi to surrender these people," Mr. Hogg was quoted by The Associated Press as saying when asked if military actions will be taken against Libya.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC ASHARQ AL-AWSAT LTD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; LIBYA LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; EXTRADITION BOMBINGS (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); BOYCOTTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; DEBRI, YUSEF ABDELQADER EL- (COL)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



171 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Senator Opposes Using Rail Funds to Limit Subway Fare

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 4

 BODY:
With a fight looming in the Legislature over fare increases for mass transit in New York City, a powerful Republican Senator said today that he would adamantly oppose any attempt to transfer money from construction funds used for commuter railroads to the city's subway and bus lines.
The transfer is one method being explored by Metropolitan Transportation Authority officials to limit the fare increase in the city to 15 cents, from $1.15 to $1.30, rather than the 25-cent increase to $1.40 that the M.T.A. had proposed earlier. 
 The Senator, Norman J. Levy, chairman of the Transportation Committee, said using the railroad's construction funds to cover the operating deficits in the city would be "a nightmarish leap back into the 1960's and 1970's, when the M.T.A. neglected its vital infrastructure."
The M.T.A., which oversees the city and suburban mass-transit lines, says the Senate, along with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the Assembly, would have to sign off on any such transfer. Thus, Mr. Levy's opposition is considered a significant obstacle to its passage. Behind his complaint is a classic battle shaping up between the Republican-led State Senate, which represents the vast majority of suburban commuters, and the Democratic-controlled Assembly, whose strength depends on votes from city residents who are sure to be unhappy about a steep fare increase.
But this division, as always, has complicating undercurrents. For example, as much as the Senate Republicans have catered to suburban interests, their majority in the chamber would crumble without the six men from their 35-member delegation who come from New York City. These six have urged colleagues to find some way to help reduce the city fare increase or avert it altogether.
Reflecting this division, Senator Roy M. Goodman, a Manhattan Republican, said today that it was an "outrage" that 25-cent increases were being considered in the city while the commuter railroads had managed to freeze current fares until at least the end of 1992.
"I personally take the view that any effort to give the commuter lines a two-year holiday while soaking New York City straphangers with such a gigantic increase would be unacceptable," he said.
Because fare increases are among the most irritating reflections of the mounting costs of public services, politicians go to considerable lengths to shun responsibility for them.
Even Mr. Levy, of Merrick, L.I., who earlier this year persuaded the M.T.A. to freeze commuter fares after he got rail officials to admit they had surplus funds to avert an increase, said he wished to avoid any increase in the city fares. He suggested that they be frozen for now, while an audit is conducted to see if the city subway and bus system has surplus funds.
But an audit completed just a few weeks ago by the Deputy State Comptroller for New York City, Elinor B. Bachrach, found that the Transit Authority's operating deficit was real and was caused mainly by "the severe downturn in the local economy."
Many lawmakers agree that something has to be done to put more money in the system.
Jerrold A. Nadler, a Manhattan Democrat who is chairman of the Assembly Committee on Corporations, Authorities and Commissions, which handles M.T.A. matters, said it was "grossly unfair" that fares on the Transit Authority, which runs the city's subway and buses, account for a higher percentage of that system's operating funds -- about 61 -- than fares on the commuter railroads. The commuter fares pay less than 50 percent of the costs of running Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road. Most of the rest of the operating costs come from various subsidies.
Equalizing the rate of subsidies by using state funds could transfer tens of millions of dollars from the suburban railroads to the city's mass transit system.
Governor Cuomo will ultimately play a major role in the dispute. But while he has said he is opposed to the $1.40 fare, he has not yet stated an opinion on transferring funds from suburban lines to the city's system. Aides said today that he was considering that option as one of many ways to pare down the fare increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RAILROADS; COMMUTING; PASSENGER SERVICES; SUBWAYS; BUSES; FARES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (77%); LEGISLATION (72%); AUDITS (60%); 

PERSON: LEVY, NORMAN J (SEN) ; VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



172 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Hearings on Economy Opening Today

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The Congressional hearings on the state of the economy that begin Thursday will spotlight the fundamental difference between Republicans and Democrats over tax policy and what makes the economy tick.
The basic Republican principle of the last half-century has been that if rich people's taxes are reduced they will invest more money. That, in the Republican view, will cause the economy to grow, leading to more jobs and prosperity for all Americans. 
 The Republicans describe this as a rising tide lifting all boats. Democrats deride it as trickle-down economics.
The main tenet of the Democrats' tax policy is that the wealthy should be taxed as heavily as needed to finance Government programs that mostly benefit the poor and the middle class.
 
2 Sides of Issue
 Democrats call this fairness and say that reducing the gap between the rich and the poor leads to a more productive economy. Republicans say redistribution of income has nothing to do with improving the economy.
The hearings before the House Ways and Means Committee, to be televised on C-Span, open at 10 A.M. with testimony from the Bush Administration's top economic policy makers: Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady; Richard G. Darman, the budget director, and Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. On Friday, lawmakers from both parties will offer their own tax proposals.
Some of the issues that will be discussed at the hearings -- capital gains, last year's budget agreement, individual retirement accounts, real estate tax breaks, middle-class tax relief -- can be arcane, but understanding them is essential to understanding not only the hearings but also what is likely to be the central debate in next year's election Presidential campaign.
The Democratic and Republican positions on taxes are in sharpest focus on the question of capital gains, the profits from investments. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 raised the rate on capital gains to the same as that on other income like wages, interest and dividends. Before that, the rate on capital gains had been significantly lower. Last year Congress raised the maximum tax rate on ordinary income to 31 percent from 28 percent but left the top capital gains rate at 28 percent, a much smaller difference than the one that existed before 1986.
 
Dispute on Capital Gains
 President Bush has proposed lowering the capital gains tax so that the top rate would be around 21 percent, and most Republicans and some Democrats support him. They make several arguments: a lower rate would encourage investment and induce investors to take risks that could lead to innovations; it would improve real estate prices, reducing the cost of bailing out failed banks and savings institutions by bringing in more money from the sale of assets; it would redress in part the imbalance in the current system that allows companies to deduct interest payments but not dividends; it would help offset the fact that part of the increase in the value of an investment, whether in stock, real estate or some other property, is usually a result of inflation.
The Republicans also argue that a cut in the capital gains tax would actually raise revenue for the Government because more people would sell their property and thus be subject to the tax. As long as an investment is not sold, no tax is paid.
The Democrats who oppose a lower tax on capital gains maintain that Republicans vastly overstate the extent to which such a tax break would stimulate investment. They note that many of the country's biggest investors, like pension funds, foundations and universities, are not taxed anyway and so would not be affected by a lower capital gains tax. They also assert that reducing the tax would lead to the reintroduction of unproductive tax shelters, which were virtually eliminated by the 1986 law.
But the Democrats' main argument is that the bulk of the benefit from a reduced tax on capital gains would go to the wealthiest taxpayers, since they are the ones who make most of the investments. Studies show that about two-thirds of all capital gains are enjoyed by taxpayers with incomes over $200,000 a year and that more than three-quarters go to those with incomes over $100,000.
The Democrats agree that in the first year or two, the Government would get a windfall of revenue as investors sold their holdings. But over five years, the Democrats say, a lower capital gains tax would lead to less income for the Treasury.
 
Judging Who Is Right
 Economists disagree over which side is right, but they generally agree that both sides have overstated their cases. Even economists in the Bush Administration say a lower capital gains tax would increase economic growth by only a fraction of a percentage point a year. And while rich taxpayers would undoubtedly get richer, opponents of the tax break can hardly argue that other taxpayers would be much worse off.
Another issue that is likely to be debated thoroughly at the hearings is whether the Government should stick to the budget agreement that was struck last year by the President and Congress. Under that law, any tax cut must be offset by a spending reduction or a tax increase elsewhere, unless the President declares a national emergency to deal with a specific issue. And money cannot be shifted from the military to domestic programs. As long as the agreement is not broken, the Government cannot take the steps it usually takes in a recession, cutting taxes and raising spending to give the economy a jolt.
Proponents of changing the budget procedures say that the country needs a quick stimulus to climb out of recession and that it makes no sense to stick to rules about military spending that were set before the collapse of Soviet Communism.
But many economists and politicians say that relaxing the discipline of the budget law would cause the financial markets to worry about the threat of inflation, resulting in an increase in long-term interest rates that would be damaging to the economy.
In addition to the capital gains question, a number of other tax issues are expected to be explored at length in the hearings. One is whether tax breaks should be broadened for individual retirement accounts.
Before the 1986 law went into effect, taxpayers could take deductions for money placed in I.R.A.'s, and no taxes were paid on the money until it was withdrawn at retirement. The new law limited such deductions to taxpayers not covered by company pension plans unless their annual income was below $25,000 for an individual or $40,000 for a couple.
Some lawmakers want to reinstate the old system of deductions or create a new kind of I.R.A. with various tax benefits. These legislators, and some economists who have studied the matter, believe that such a policy would improve the national rate of saving, creating a new pool of money for investment. Others doubt that overall saving would increase and say taxpayers would simply shift money from where it is now to a tax-favored I.R.A.
Another tax question is whether to revive old real-estate tax breaks. Under old law, investors in real estate could write off paper losses against income earned from working. This was the basis of tax shelters enjoyed by many highly paid professionals and executives.
These kinds of shelters were abolished by the 1986 law. The result was a decrease in the value of commercial real estate, and that was one of the causes of the savings and loan disaster and of the dismal condition of the real-estate industry that exists in many parts of the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); INCOME TAX (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (66%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); SAVINGS & LOANS (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



173 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Justices Weigh Ban on Voicing Hate

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The Supreme Court wrestled today with what steps the Constitution permits governments to take in efforts to curb speech and acts that express hostility based on race, religion or sex.
"Each generation must reaffirm the guarantees of the First Amendment with the hard cases," the Justices were told by a lawyer representing a St. Paul teen-ager who is charged with burning a cross on a black family's lawn in violation of the city's "hate crime" ordinance. 
 It was apparent throughout the hourlong argument that this was a difficult case, as likely to fuel as to resolve the debate over campus speech codes and the many recently enacted state laws that attach criminal penalties to speech or actions motivated by bias. Most states have passed such laws in the last few years.
 
Broad Terms of Law
 The two-year-old St. Paul ordinance is expressed in broader terms than most of these laws, defining as a crime the display of any symbol or label that can be expected to arouse "anger, alarm or resentment in others" on the basis of a person's race, religion or sex.
These phrases are so general as to raise serious constitutional problems under the Supreme Court's First Amendment precedents. The Minnesota Supreme Court upheld the ordinance by, in effect, judicially rewriting it to make it apply only to types of expression that the United States Supreme Court has found to be unprotected by the First Amendment.
Under the Minnesota court's opinion, the ordinance bars only "fighting words," those likely to incite violence or produce "imminent lawless action." The phrases come from two Supreme Court precedents, one from 1942 and the other from 1969. It is the state court's interpretation, rather than the ordinance as originally written, that is now before the Justices.
Several Justices made clear today that the Minnesota court did not necessarily solve the ordinance's constitutional problems by trying to make it consistent with Supreme Court precedent.
 
2 Kinds of 'Fighting Words'
 Justices Antonin Scalia and David H. Souter both questioned whether a law can constitutionally prohibit some "fighting words" -- those motivated by bias against specified groups -- while ignoring other "fighting words." The Court has generally interpreted the First Amendment as barring government from regulating speech on the basis of its content.
"If you want to prohibit fighting words, why not just prohibit fighting words?" Justice Scalia asked Thomas J. Foley, the prosecutor for Ramsey County, Minn., who was defending the ordinance. Why define some and not others as illegal, Justice Scalia asked.
Mr. Foley replied that speech and conduct motivated by racial or other bias created more harm and had a more serious effect on the community.
"That's a political judgment," Justice Scalia said. He added that some people might be more offended by provocative speech about economics "or even philosophy."
Justice Scalia also questioned the ordinance's limitation of the type of expressed bias it prohibits. "You say 'bias motivated,' but that depends on what your biases are," Justice Scalia told Mr. Foley, offering as an example a cross burning intended to deter the placement of a home for the mentally ill. Mr. Foley agreed that the ordinance would not apply to such an incident, because the ordinance is limited to bias on the basis of race, religion or sex. .
"So it's the wrong kind of bias," Justice Scalia said. "Why is that? It seems to me the rankest kind of subject-matter discrimination."
The discussion of "fighting words" led the Court to a difficult constitutional question, the answer to which could determine the outcome of the case.
Mr. Foley asserted that because "fighting words" were not worthy of First Amendment protection at all, as the Court has long held, there is no constitutional problem with a law that punishes some fighting words and not others. Because the entire category is "outside the First Amendment," he said, the Court's usual concern about government regulation based on the content of speech does not apply.
 
Making New Law
 Justice Souter commented, "If we accepted your view, we would be making new law." He did not indicate whether he or other members of the Court would welcome such a development. In fact, a number of constitutional scholars have questioned how valid the Court's 50-year-old "fighting words" doctrine remains in light of the evolution of First Amendment law in the intervening decades. Since its original ruling, Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, the Court has never upheld a conviction based on "fighting words." In that 1942 decision, the Court upheld the conviction of a man who, in violation of a law that prohibited insults in a public place, had called a city official a "racketeer" and "a damned fascist"
Edward J. Cleary, the lawyer challenging the St. Paul ordinance, said the measure remained unconstitutional, even as interpreted by the Minnesota Supreme Court. He said the state court had not eliminated the possibility that the ordinance could be used to chill "political discourse and debate."
Although "many well-meaning groups" support ordinances of this kind, Mr. Cleary said, "this is the hour of danger for the First Amendment."
Mr. Cleary's client, Robert A. Viktora, has not yet been tried for the cross burning, which under the bias ordinance is a misdemeanor carrying a 90-day jail sentence. The lawyer described the conduct his client was charged with as "reprehensible and abhorrent." He said that cross burning or other bias-related activity could be addressed by "neutral" laws that prohibit "terrorist threats" to anyone, without reference to motivation.
The Court will decide the case, R.A.V. v. St. Paul, No. 90-7675, by early next summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (85%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (85%); MINNESOTA SUPREME COURT (55%); MINNESOTA SUPREME COURT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (85%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (85%); MINNESOTA SUPREME COURT (55%); MINNESOTA SUPREME COURT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ST PAUL (MINN) UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF SPEECH; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; CROSS BURNING; BLACKS (IN US) SUPREME COURTS (93%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); ORDINANCES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); APPEALS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); HATE CRIME (78%); RELIGION (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); LAWYERS (75%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (72%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; VIKTORA, ROBERT A ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



174 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Castro, in Talk With U.S. Senator, Calls Fuel Crisis 'the Biggest Test'

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
President Fidel Castro told a visiting United States Senator this week that Cuba was struggling with a fuel and energy crisis that he regarded as "the biggest test of the survival of our revolution."
The Senator, Larry Pressler, a South Dakota Republican and member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said Mr. Castro and his aides told him in a meeting that began Sunday night and stretched over more than five hours into Monday morning that Cuba would receive less than a third of the oil it was expecting from the Soviet Union this year. Work on a Soviet-built nuclear power plant, which Cuba planned to open in 1992, has been stalled because the Russian republic is not sending equipment, Mr. Pressler was told. 
 In Havana, bicycles appear to have replaced most cars on the streets and only about a third of the public buses are operating, Senator Pressler said. Commenting on his four days of travel in the Cuban countryside before he met with Mr. Castro, he said Soviet tractors were in disrepair or broken down for lack of spare parts.
"Havana looked like Ho Chi Minh City, with bicycles all over," the Senator said in an interview by telephone Monday from the Dominican Republic after leaving Cuba. "Castro tried to give it a positive side, saying he thinks this is good for the environment. But the Cubans are running out of fuel."
 
From Tractors to Oxen
 The Cuban President also said that Havana would replace farm machinery with oxen, a plan Mr. Pressler, a farmer as well as a lawyer, described as impractical, because there are not enough animals available for agriculture on the Cuban scale.
"I said, you're going to be the first country in the world to go from tractors back to oxen," the Senator said. "He said, if we have to do it, we're going to do it."
Mr. Pressler said Mr. Castro added that if Cuba could not overcome the crisis caused by the breakup of the Soviet Union and the loss of Soviet aid and commodities at concessionary prices, "no one in Washington would take us seriously."
In the meeting, which included a late-night dinner, President Castro spoke for the first time to a visiting American about what went on behind closed doors at a Cuban Communist Party congress in October. At that session, the Cuban President made one of his characteristically long speeches in which he called Western democracy "garbage."
The Senator, who had not previously been to Cuba, said President Castro told him that the Communist Party congress had been devoted overwhelmingly to a discussion of "where Marxism-Leninism goes from here." Moves toward democratization were apparently not considered seriously, Mr. Pressler said.
The Cuban leader, speaking in Spanish through an interpreter, argued that his brand of socialism was never imitative of any other model and that it would go on being unique. He called his new philosophy "socialism with joint ventures," Senator Pressler said. President Castro ruled out elections, saying they could not be held when there was no fuel and the country's economy was on a "war" footing.
The joint ventures Cuban officials are seeking are primarily in the tourist industry, Havana's biggest hope for earning hard currency.
 
Shortages Are Everywhere
 Everywhere there are consumer shortages, Mr. Pressler said, and some seem likely to have an effect on the health of Cubans, especially children. The country is unable to find enough dairy products, he said, because a barter agreement with the former East Germany that brought in milk and other goods in return for Cuban orange juice was lost in the collapse of the regime.
The shortages appear to have affected the Cuban President's life, too, Mr. Pressler said, noting that Mr. Castro seemed to travel with a portable generator to provide light for his late-night sessions.
A doctor was also in attendance at the meeting, in which President Castro talked at length about health and fitness. He told Senator Pressler that he did 30 minutes of exercise a day on a stationary bicycle.
Senator Pressler and his aides steered the discussion toward Cuban relations with the Soviet Union several times. The Senator said that the Cubans seemed most bitter about the Russian republic, which has cut its aid most drastically. Soviet military support is also being reduced, Mr. Castro said, telling the Americans that "a whole era of Russian soldiers and arms in Cuba is probably over."
Asked who Cuba's closest friends were now, Mr. Castro said "no one."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (78%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); HAVANA, CUBA (78%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (50%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SHORTAGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENERGY AND POWER; FOREIGN AID LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); MAMMALS (86%); INTERVIEWS (79%); GASOLINE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); TRENDS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (55%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); PRESSLER, LARRY (SEN); CROSSETTE, BARBARA FIDEL CASTRO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



175 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Survey by Fed Sees More Weakness

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The nation's economy continued to weaken on the eve of the holiday shopping season and retailers struggled to lure customers with widespread discounting, the Federal Reserve said today.
The Fed said a survey by its 12 regional banks "generally suggested flagging momentum in the economic recovery in October and early November." 
 Middle America experienced "continued but slower growth," while the economy remained "stable to slightly weaker" elsewhere, it found.
The survey was completed the day before Thanksgiving and two days before the traditional start of the holiday shopping season when retailers generally make half of their annual sales and profits.
Not only does the Fed survey bode ill for merchants, but it also was bound to cause fresh concern over the nation's ability to emerge from the recession.
 
Importance of Consumers
 Consumer spending represents two-thirds of the nation's economic activity and thus is essential for any sustained recovery. Retail sales account for about half of consumer outlays.
"Retail sales generally remained sluggish," according to a summary of the survey, adding that in the Atlanta and Cleveland districts, sales gains were concentrated in non-durable goods, those not expected to last three years.
"Dallas, Boston and Kansas City each reported weakness in sales of big-ticket items," it said. "Minneapolis indicated that retail sales have generally been stagnant except for areas close to the Canadian border, which have benefited from a surge in shopping by Canadians.
"Active discounting was widely noted," the survey found, "and several reports indicated that discounting was necessary to achieve sales gains."
The Fed banks conduct the surveys eight times a year to use in considering monetary policy. The policy makers meet again on Dec. 17 amid some speculation that they will make further cuts in interest rates to help stimulate the economy and insure the recovery. The central bank has been hesitant to lower rates further, fearing that action could spur inflation.
Still, the survey found that "reports on price trends suggested steady to diminished inflation."
The central bank last eased credit conditions on Nov. 6 when it reduced the discount rate, which it charges banks for loans, to 4.5 percent, the lowest in 20 years. At the same time, it nudged the Federal funds rate, the interest banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent.
The survey also found new car sales were uniformly weak across the nation and said manufacturing activity had flattened in most districts.
 
In Cleveland and Chicago
 "Conditions in the auto industry contributed to some slowing in the growth expected in the Cleveland and Chicago districts," the summary said.
But the weakness was not confined to the automobile industry. The survey found manufacturing activity also fell in the Boston, Philadelphia and Richmond districts and said continued sluggishness existed in the Atlanta, Kansas City and San Francisco regions. Manufacturing was mixed in Chicago, Cleveland and St. Louis.
"Housing activity continued to expand at a slow pace," the summary said, with modest improvements in the Atlanta, Kansas City and St. Louis districts.
"Demand for existing homes picked up in the New York metropolitan area, particularly among first-time home buyers attracted by lower mortgage interest rates and lower home prices," the survey found.
 
Sales of Existing Homes
 But it said "sales of existing homes softened in parts of the Chicago district, and home remodelers in the Chicago metropolitan area reported sluggish demand."
Commercial construction, on the other hand, remained weak.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; HOLIDAY TRADE RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAILERS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); THANKSGIVING (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



176 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2652 words

HEADLINE: Power of the Yen Winning Asia New 'Co-Prosperity' Is Displacing U.S.

SERIES: 50 Years Later -- Last of three articles: Asian Quest

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia

 BODY:
The day that most Americans remember as a day of infamy resonates very differently in Asia. Here, Pearl Harbor is regarded as a sideshow to Japan's real ambitions in World War II -- the creation of a "Greater East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere," an economic and military empire that stretched from the coal mines of Manchuria to the oilfields of Indonesia.
Fifty years later, in radically different form and with very different purposes, the co-prosperity sphere lives on. Over the last decade, while America's attention was elsewhere, Japan has poured billions of dollars and enormous energy into the region, building car factories and electronics plants here on the edge of the Malaysian jungle, employing thousands in the Thai countryside and erecting giant shopping centers and office towers in Hong Kong and Singapore. 
 As Japan has turned Asia into its manufacturing and merchandising backyard, it has ever so gradually begun to displace the United States as the most politically influential power in the region. This time, the Japanese insist, the outcome will be real co-prosperity, with the power of the yen, not the military, bringing Asia into its own.
With surprisingly little trepidation, Southeast Asians have welcomed Japan's return, concluding that the road to industrialization, or at least to capital and technology, now starts in Tokyo. Certainly deep bitterness remains: Emperor Akihito and Japan's political leaders still cannot arrive anywhere in Asia without apologizing and promising that Japan will never again seek new territory. Tellingly, even a debate now under way in the Japanese Parliament over an apology for the suffering caused during World War II is aimed more at Asia than at the United States.
But whatever fears Asia has of a resurgent Japan are overwhelmed by a growing conviction that Japan's studiously non-ideological pragmatism should be the archetype for much of the rest of Asia.
"I think there is a sense in Southeast Asia that the Americans kicked themselves out," said Takakazu Kuriyama, who recently retired as Japan's deputy foreign minister and served in the mid-80's as ambassador to Malaysia. "In the 60's and 70's the United States understood its strategic interests in the area. But it is not clear now that it always understands its economic interests."
To travel through Southeast Asia today is to hear government officials and industrial leaders talk enthusiastically about their one-time invader as their teacher and financier. In contrast, the United States is often described as the region's absentee ally, a continuing military presence but an increasingly marginal player in the most dynamic, booming economies in the world today.
In their more candid moments, Japanese officials say that how they harness Asia's talent and energy in the next few years may ultimately determine whether, in the early part of the next century, Japan's economy overtakes that of the United States. For them, Asia is the critical cog in the machine, a cure for Japan's shortage of talented labor and inexpensive land, a way to free up Japan's resources for more profitable, research-oriented work at home.
 
Embracing Capitalism, Japanese Style
 For Japan, investing in Asia has been an enormously profitable strategy, not only by manufacturing there but by selling there. Japanese argue that their efforts have helped Asia too, fueling the double-digit growth that swept many of its hard-driving economies through much of the 80's. Only recently have those rates slowed to growth of 6 to 9 percent a year, at a time much of the rest of the world economy is stagnant.
The most remarkable change wrought by the Japanese is what they have built over the last six years -- at a cost of more than $25 billion, three times what the United States has spent in the same period. Piece by piece, corporate Japan has created a startling replica of itself, not only in look and feel but also in culture. As a result, a region that only 15 years ago was seen by the United States as on the brink of falling to Communism has instead embraced a decidedly capitalist model -- but capitalism Japanese-style.
The shift is most vivid inside the giant factories of the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company here. The company's operations account for more than 3 percent of Malaysia's gross national product. Every morning, 17,000 Malaysian workers pour through the gates wearing uniforms nearly identical to those at Matsushita's headquarters in Osaka. They start the day by singing the Matsushita song -- in Malay -- and spend 45 minutes discussing Japanese-style manufacturing techniques with their managers before heading to their posts on sparkling, highly automated production lines.
The Japanese love it. "In some ways it is better than operating in the U.S.," says Tadashi Akita, the head of Matsushita's operations here and a veteran of the company's plants in North America. "Now, we can buy most of our parts here. The quality is high."
And because the cultural gap between teacher and student seems narrower than it does when Japan builds factories in the West, "the workers are easy to train," Mr. Akita said.
Matsushita is here largely because the Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, has explicitly urged his people for the last decade to "look East," and find Asia's future with other Asians, meaning the Japanese. Mr. Mahathir has spent most of the year pressing a plan for a new economic grouping that excludes non-Asians. Japan, torn between its Asian identity and its Western interests, would be the linchpin, and so far it has sided with the United States in trying to bury the idea. Like their counterparts in Singapore and Seoul, Malaysia's planners have closely copied Tokyo's strategy of "targeting" strategic industries, financing major projects in autos and electronics, exporting fiercely and protecting infant industries.
"What we most want to emulate is the Japanese work ethic, the sense of loyalty to the country and the company," said Mohamad Rusli, one of Malaysia's economic planners. "Japan's experience of rebuilding after the war, the way it got workers and management to cooperate and got the economy to grow in leaps and bounds, seems very Asian to us. It has much more relevance to our society than the experience of the West."
Without question, the new co-prosperity sphere is very different from the old. The Japanese who landed in Dutch-controlled Indonesia, the Philippines and the old British colony of Malaya 50 years ago had to fight their way off the beaches. Today they are feted the way Katsushige Mita, president of Hitachi Ltd., was a few weeks ago when he arrived here to open yet more factories. "We feel very welcome here," Mr. Mita said.
Japan's motives have also changed. Hideki Tojo, Japan's wartime prime minister, sought natural resources and military bases to keep the imperial empire afloat, and promised liberation from "ruthless exploitation by the United States and Britain."
Today Mitsubishi, Toyota and Mitsui seek liberation from the expense of doing business in Japan and promise to bring VCR's and Japanese fashions to a rising generation of Asian consumers. And this time, the Japanese have kept explicit political ideology out of the equation, substituting the highly pragmatic, pro-business formulas that implicitly promise to make other Asian countries more like Japan.
That has given Japan a political influence in the region that is hard to define, yet universally felt. In Kuala Lumpur, for example, virtually everyone acknowledges that one of the most influential behind-the-scenes power brokers is the longtime head of the Mitsui trading company office, Kazumasa Suzuki. In Thailand, the military Government has made it clear that the No. 1 concern of Japanese investors, rapidly improving a network of roads and telephones that is collapsing under the strain of development, has also become the Government's top priority.
"They have a forceful, one-dimensional approach to developing Asia's economies," Paul Cleveland, the American Ambassador to Malaysia, said of Japan's approach. "Later on, as a great nation and people, I'm sure the Japanese harbor other designs. But right now, they may not know what they are."
Other factors have paved the way for Japanese-style capitalism. For example, almost all of the countries pursuing the Japanese model are run by authoritarian-leaning governments that openly admire the 35 years of single-party rule by Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party. Many consider that stability essential to staying focused on economic development.
Wartime antagonisms do still run high in some of these countries, especially in places like Singapore, where 130,000 Chinese were killed as Japanese forces swept down the Malay peninsula and captured the city in the winter of 1941-42. In Korea, a Japanese colony for 40 years and today Japan's biggest Asian manufacturing rival, enmity for the Japanese often bubbles to the surface in conversations, especially when the subject turns to how Japan has cut South Korea off from new, Japanese-developed technology.
Elsewhere, though, a desire to build new bridges to Japan is quickly softening wartime memories. Thai officials now frequently point out that Thailand was allied with Japan during the war, something that was impolitic to mention just a few years ago. Japanese in Malaysia contend that older residents have thanked them for the Japanese invasion. "They say it triggered the postwar independence movement" from Britain, Mr. Akita noted recently.
At the same time, there is a constant worry about Japan's ultimate intentions. The Singapore Defense Minister, commenting on a plan under consideration in Japan's Parliament to allow the Japanese military to join United Nations peacekeeping forces, warned that Japan has the technology and power to "transform overnight into a military power of the highest order." Singapore has led the calls for the United States to remain a major military presence in the region.
"There is no country in Asia that would welcome us," a senior Japanese diplomat in Tokyo said the other day, "if the U.S.-Japan relationship was not maintained. With our past and our size, they would be too scared."
 
Is America's Mind Elsewhere?
 But America's presence is not solely military. Singapore, for example, remains a leading outpost of American companies, from Apple to A.T.&T., and there are American success stories in every country. Exxon and other oil companies continue to invest heavily in drilling projects; Intel and Motorola have expanded their electronics operations; Asia is one of the few bright spots for I.B.M. these days. American companies are courted because of their willingness -- in contrast to Japanese concerns -- to transfer technology and promote local executives.
Nonetheless there is a widespread sense that America's mind is elsewhere. "American executives come through here, and intellectually they understand it when I tell them that if they are not in Asia in the next century, they will probably be out of business," said Mr. Cleveland, who with other American ambassadors in the area plans to barnstorm around the United States early next year to drum up more investment.
"But it requires a lot more to invest in Asia," he added. "You have to change your character, your own practices. And in the end, many decide they don't want to do it."
Rightly or wrongly, Japanese cite America's absence as an example of the short-sightedness of American industry. "U.S. companies will change their mind in the near future," said Atsushi Oi, who overseas Japan's Asia strategies for the powerful Minister of International Trade and Industry. "And the market will still be growing. But no one can really understand why they are giving up the chance to grab leading positions."
Japan's move into Asia began in earnest in 1985, soon after the so-called Plaza currency accord with the United States strongly drove up the value of the yen and the price of Japanese exports. Desperate to cut costs, Japanese companies flocked to countries with easily trained, low-cost labor.
By all accounts, it was not a move orchestrated by the Japanese Government. Like most of Japan's industrial policy today, it did not need to be. The Keidanren, the organization that represents Japan's biggest businesses, organized "survey tours" and investing in Southeast Asia soon became a game of one-upmanship.
If the move was driven by economics, it was accelerated by Japanese-American trade politics. Goods built in Malaysia or Thailand are not included in Japan's trade accounts with the United States, even if they contain largely Japanese components. So Japan can still make television sets and VCR's and send them to American stores without further enlarging the American trade deficit with Japan because of what amounts to an accounting shell game that no one has yet been able to quantify accurately. If these goods were counted, the Japanese trade surplus would look far larger.
The development process was speeded by policy changes in some of the Asian countries. Malaysia, for example, had depended for years on its own people -- chiefly the "bumiputra," or native Malays, to industrialize the country. But it was not working. The Chinese minority in Malaysia, often at odds with the bumiputra, dominated the business world.
 
Call Goes Out For Foreign Help
 So Mr. Mahathir, a wily leader with a strong nationalistic streak, reversed course, creating huge tax incentives for foreign investment and calling in companies like Mitsubishi Motors to design and manufacture a national car. Today the streets are filled with a compact model call the Proton, complete with an illuminated Malaysian flag on the hood. Now more than 800 Japanese manufacturers are here, and their presence has transformed the economy: 59 percent of Malaysia's exports in 1990 were manufactured goods.
Matsushita led the drive. It vastly expanded its plants. Today it has one of the world's largest air-conditioner plants here -- Malaysia next year will be the world's largest producer of room air-conditioners -- and it is building 14-inch television sets on a highly automated manufacturing line that uses some equipment so advanced that it has yet to be installed in Matsushita's older plants in Japan.
Matsushita brought with it a raft of Japanese suppliers, many of whom entered joint ventures with local companies. Now roughly 80 percent of the parts used in the television sets are locally sourced -- though many of them by Japanese-based companies with long ties to the electronics giant.
Slowly Japan is moving more technology to places like the Matsushita plant, even designing television sets there. But as the investment flow slows -- it is already beginning to happen -- tensions seem bound to rise. Japan's experience in Korea and Taiwan suggests it still plans to leave the most advanced, highest-value work at home, farming out the less profitable tasks. Over time, the nations that welcome Japan today may feel increasingly exploited.
The lingering question of Japan's real motives will always push itself to the fore. For now, the Japanese seem happy to keep the new co-prosperity sphere solely economic in nature. But as Japan's interests in the region deepen, no one knows, in the words of a senior European diplomat with wide experience in the region, "how long the political presence will stay so benign."
For the United States, many believe, the time to challenge Japan in its home region is running short. "The story is like Pearl Harbor," said James Alfred, a Malaysian who has long worked for Matsushita. "I look around and I see America enjoying itself. The Japanese are busy getting ready for the next project, refueling themselves in the air. You never saw the planes coming across the Pacific, and you may not see this, either."

GRAPHIC: Photos: While American companies have a mixed reputation in Southeast Asia, Japanese companies are providing stability that is attracting Asian workers in droves. At the Japanese-owned Matsushita television plant in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysian workers assembled circuit boards. (pg. D1); Sensitive to charges that they are exploiting labor, Japanese companies are introducing some design and engineering work. At the Matsushita plant in Kuala Lumpur, engineers are collaborating on the company's first television sets designed in Southeast Asia. (pg. D22) (David E. Sanger/The New York Times)
 
Map/Graphs: "Competitors in the Asian Market" compares net foreign capital investment by the U.S. and Japan in Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan and the Philippines (Source: Japanese Ministry of Finance; U.S. Commerce Department) (pg. D22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: ASIA (98%); JAPAN (97%); MALAYSIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (95%); INDONESIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS ASIA (98%); JAPAN (97%); MALAYSIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (95%); INDONESIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US WORLD WAR II (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); RETAILERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (61%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); COAL MINING (56%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E TSUGUNOMIYA 'EMPEROR AKIHITO' AKIHITO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



177 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding the Building of Castles in the Sand in Casino Land

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY

 BODY:
"It's the second oldest profession in Atlantic City," says Ralph Halpslader, who just a few months ago joined a new wave of sand sculptors in this storied resort city.
Mr. Halpslader, who is in his 30's and describes himself as "basically homeless," works as he talks, restoring tautness to the haunches of a 10-foot alligator tousled a bit by the wind. The alligator, which has seashells for teeth, seems to be stifling a grin that could make you look around to see if the dachshund you were walking is still safely on its leash -- a crocodile smile. 
 "Well, he could be a crocodile, if you want him to be a crocodile," said Mr. Halpslader, who is agreeable to almost anything as long as it makes you happy. "He could be Abraham Lincoln if you want him to be. This is entertainment. This is show business."
Whatever it is, sand sculpture has been around a long time in Atlantic City, though, like the city itself, it fell on hard times over the last few decades and seemed about to die out completely.
But now people like Mr. Halpslader, who sleeps under the boardwalk on starry nights when it is warm, or in his van when it's not, finds that shaping fantasy out of sand is satisfying to the soul -- and not a bad way to pick up some ready money for a fellow temporarily at liberty to pick up some ready money.
There are not many of them at work in the fall, the days being short, the sun shy and the temperatures less than balmy. But even so, a half-dozen sand artists, as they like to be called, can be found along the boardwalk on days that are not too chilly, usually in pairs, molding sand into whatever strikes their fancy -- alligators and sharks, sphinxes and pyramids, turtles and toadstools, octopuses and unicorns. Up the beach there is a 10-foot likeness of Neptune himself.
People stop on the boardwalk and look, admire the sand art or just laugh, and many throw down a coin or a bill by way of thanks.
How much can a fellow make, shaping sand?
Mr. Halpslader looked behind him, as if there was someone lurking, ready to knock on his door, even though he does not have a door.
"If I tell you that, the Internal Revenue Service will be after me," he said. "But there's rumors," he added, brightening. "People claim, let's say, people claim that they make over a thousand dollars on a weekend for their displays."
 
Art and Commerce
 A thousand dollars?
"Well," said Mr. Halpslader, at pains to dismiss the thought that sable art is abetted by green commerce, "that's over 24 hours, and you may have to split that up among 8 or 10 guys."
But even so, with times so hard, how does a sand artist keep his franchise, so to speak, his place on the beach, and the money from the milkshake cups the artists set on blankets in front of their work to catch the quarters people toss as they stroll between casinos.
"By having 8 to 10 guys on the displays, 24 hours a day, carrying a big baseball bat," Mr. Halpslader said, pulling back a forelock to display an ugly little crescent scar on his scalp.
"That was a made by a bottle of Thunderbird," he said. "Hit me there. People trying to rip my money off."
At their best, the sand fantasies are just that, "cartoons brought to life," as Mr. Halpslader put it. Down the beach are three yard-high sphinxes flanked by pyramids. But these are sphinxes that might have had Felix the Cat as an ancestor or Garfield as a sibling, grinning mightily. Beside them is a half-finished creature that looks suspiciously like a giant mouse. Its sculptors are nowhere to be found.
 
A Declining Craft
 Further up, Alan Cline, who is 33, hails from Memphis and does construction work when sand sculpting is slow, specializes in classic forms like the unicorn and the sea god Neptune (looking strangely Egyptian, it must be said). He laments the decline of the craft.
"The best don't like to do it anymore," he said. "There's too many amateurs."
City officials look at the rebirth of sand sculpture with some ambivalence, a tradition in the city but one now fraught with urban problems.
Regina Armstrong, director of economic development for Atlantic City, said sand sculpting of the more or less professional variety, as opposed to children building castles in the sand, sprang up just before the turn of the century, fell into decline after World War II and only recently underwent a rebirth -- one that is likely to be short-lived.
"We have what we think is the first recorded sand sculptor in 1897," she said, "a man named Philip McCord. The originator of sand pictures -- drawings in the sand rather than sculpture -- was James J. Taylor around 1900. This was a big business in the 1920's and 30's. People used to come and commmission a sculpture of their family, and businesses had their logos and corporate seals done."
 
'The End of an Era'
 Though artists were adamant that only sand be sculpted, Ms. Armstrong said, some sprayed the finished work with a concrete shell to make it permanent.
But then came the hurricane of 1944 -- the Great Hurricane, as it is remembered here -- which swept it all away, along with several miles of boardwalk and several piers. "It marked the end of an era," Ms. Armstrong said. "Atlantic City started downhill then. The spirit dulled, I suppose."
Last year, sand sculpture began to re-establish itself, and the city itself sponsored a family sand sculpting contest.
But the rebirth is in some peril. Within the next few years, Ms. Armstrong said, environmental regulations intended to protect the city's fragile dune structure will prohibit disturbing sand within 50 feet of the boardwalk, a prohibition that would effectively ban sand sculpture since the displays must be close to the boardwalk to draw crowds.
"Presently," she said, "we are allowing the artists along the flat areas. But that will change."
In the meantime, Mr. Halpslader said he might write a book detailing the history of the city's second-oldest profession. He said he knew nothing about the city's oldest profession -- fortunetelling.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Examples of sand sculptures that are gracing the beach at Atlantic City include a unicorn and slot machine, into which some coins were thrown. (Harvey Bilker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES; SAND CASTLES SCULPTURE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); BEACHES (78%); DOGS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



178 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Words of Care Go With Gifts To Neediest

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
"This year more than last year, more than previous years, the need for your fund is apparent to any person who observes our city," Arthur Tenenholtz of Brooklyn wrote to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. "Although my employer has not granted a pay raise this year, I am increasing my donation."
Those words by Mr. Tenenholtz, who sent $50, echo the concerns of hundreds of people who have contributed to the Neediest Cases, which began its 80th appeal this week. The letters of those people reflect a mood of despair brought on by the recession. 
 "I am aware of many homeless, including whole families, many job seekers in a bad economy, many older and infirm and many people who of necessity are on welfare rolls," wrote Ruth A. Unterberg of Manhattan.
Through her $100 contribution, Ms. Unterberg wrote, she hopes that recipients will know "that they aren't forgotten."
Since it was founded in 1912 by Adolph S. Ochs, who was then publisher of The New York Times, the Neediest Cases Fund has raised money for New York's sick, poor and disabled. What began as the "Hundred Neediest Cases" has expanded to meet needs of thousands of individuals.
As in the past, The New York Times is covering all of the campaign's overhead so that every dollar collected can go directly to seven charities. Last year $4.4 million was raised from at least 15,580 individuals and organizations. The money provided many forms of relief, including food for the hungry, shelter for the homeless and clothing for those without. The seven charities also used the money to provide job training for the disabled, counseling for substance abusers and child abusers, and services that address the innumerable problems faced by victims of AIDS.
In short notes accompanying their gifts, many contributors said they were pleased that none of their money would go toward overhead or solicitation. "I like the fact that 100 percent of the donations go to people who need the money," Saul Bennett of Manhattan said in a telephone interview this week. "I also like the fact that it benefits people regardless of their race, religion or background."
Mr. Bennett, who is president of Robert Marston Marketing Communications, said the $50 his company sent in memory of the relative of a business colleague is the latest in a long line of contributions.
"I haven't missed a year since I saved a dollar from my allowance when I was 8 years old and sent it in," he said. "But I won't tell you how long that's been."
 
Previously recorded . . . $1,084,443.10
Recorded yesterday . . . $10,104.64
 
 
Total . . . $1,094,547.74

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND FUNDRAISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (74%); FAMILY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (69%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); CHILD ABUSE (63%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (52%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



179 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Coffee Prices Drop Sharply On Setback for Export Plan

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Coffee futures prices fell sharply yesterday after the Brazilian Government said it would be up to the factionalized private sector to develop a price-support plan.
Coffee for March delivery tumbled 2.65 cents, to 82.55 cents a pound on New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, erasing most of the gains accumulated in the four previous sessions. The more lightly traded December contract fell 1.95 cents, to 78.80 cents a pound. 
 Coffee futures rallied recently on indications that Brazil, the world's largest coffee producer, was leaning toward a return to export quotas to raise prices.
The last such agreement among the world's largest coffee-exporting and importing countries collapsed in mid-1989. As delegates to the 73-nation International Coffee Organization gathered Tuesday in London, the presidents of Brazil and Colombia signed a statement proposing discussions among exporters on strategies for withholding coffee from the market.
But yesterday, Brazil's Deputy Economy Minister, Dorothea Werneck, said it was up to the Brazilian and Colombian private sectors to negotiate any price-support plan. The Brazilian Government's only role was to offer encouragement, she said.
The surprise announcement started heavy selling by speculators because it apparently left responsibility for both negotiating and financing a price-support plan largely up to the sharply divided segments of Brazil's coffee industry.
"The private sector already is considered to be in dire financial shape, prohibiting any outcome to the talks going on in London," said Sandra Kaul, coffee analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. in New York.
Petroleum futures rallied on the New York Mercantile Exchange, partly in reaction to a weekly industry report on Tuesday showing lower-than-expected stocks of crude oil.
Crude oil for January delivery rose 25 cents, to $20.76 a barrel; January heating oil rose 0.86 cent, to 60.33 cents a gallon; January unleaded gasoline rose 0.44 cent, to 57.09 cents a gallon.
Soybean futures prices rose strongly on the Chicago Board of Trade amid indications of fresh Soviet demand. The market recovered most of the previous day's losses.
Wheat futures finished mixed while corn and oat futures ended mostly higher.
Wheat for delivery in December rose 4 cents to settle at $3.90 1/4 a bushel; December corn rose 3/4 cent, to $2.39 1/2 a bushel; December oats rose 3 cents, to $1.27 a bushel; January soybeans rose 7 1/4 cents, to $5.62 3/4 a bushel.
Near-term live cattle futures rose, reflecting perceptions that the market's recent losses were exaggerated. Other livestock futures ended lower, under pressure in in part from heavy hog slaughter levels. Pork bellies were narrowly mixed.
Live cattle for December delivery rose 0.08 cent, to 73.20 cents a pound; January feeder cattle slipped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (58%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (58%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (56%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (58%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (58%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (56%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COFFEE; PRICES COFFEE MARKETS (96%); COFFEE (96%); FUTURES (93%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OATS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (83%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); GASOLINE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PORK (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); EXPORT CONTROLS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



180 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Hard Times Call for the Hard Sell

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
RETAILERS are changing the face they present to shoppers during the holiday season, shifting from the warm and fuzzy image-building long popular at this time of year to hard-selling product promotions.
The changes are particularly noticeable in network television and magazines. They are beginning to seem more like radio and newspapers, filled with ads emphasizing prices, sales, limited-time offers and contests.
"Every bit of economic news is negative," said Pete Vetowich, executive vice president and director of retail at Ross Roy Group, which creates campaigns for K Mart and the K Mart Corporation's chains of office supply, sporting goods and home-improvement stores.
"You put that on top of the short selling season," Mr. Vetowich added in a telephone interview from his office in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., "and there's reason to be very promotional.
The changes are apparent in campaigns for K Mart, by Ross Roy; Sears, Roebuck & Company, by Ogilvy & Mather Chicago, and Toys "R" Us Inc., by J. Walter Thompson New York, and they echo what has been occurring in brand-name consumer products from cereal to soap. There, too, long-term image advertising has become subordinate to short-term promotional programs.
"In this tough economy, to keep the stores open, you've got to sell product," said Susan Marber, vice president and group management supervisor at Grey Advertising Inc. in New York, which creates broadcast spots for Bloomingdale's. Today and tomorrow, she added, the agency will shoot two holiday television spots for the retailer; one, called "Give Hope," will be altruistic, listing charities to which donations can be made, while the other, called "Best of Gifts," will be packed with products and prices.
When the spots start running on Dec. 13, "we'd love to do them 50-50," she continued, but in all likelihood the sales pitch will predominate.
For Toys "R" Us, Thompson New York has produced a television commercial touting the toy stores' selection of lower-priced video games, at $14.98 to $19.98, in addition to another spot, sans prices, devoted to the new Nintendo Entertainment System.
Toys "R" Us executives "wanted to make sure they were viewed as having reasonably priced video games as well as the higher-priced ones," said Marty Rose, a senior vice president and management director at Thompson New York, adding, "They know people are not as generous in spending money as in the past."
Among similar measures that Toys "R" Us is pursuing, Mr. Rose listed radio commercials centering on a guaranteed-low-price program and booklets of coupons good for discounts on purchases of Mattel Inc. toys.
At K Mart, shoppers will find they can enter a sweepstakes, called "Celebrate a Magical Disneyland Christmas," that offers more than 100,000 prizes like a $500,000 annuity and 3,000 trips to Disneyland.
While in previous, more economically robust years, it would have been unusual for retailers to sponsor such consumer-enticing contests, "when economic conditions are not really strong, anything we can do to enhance sales is our job," said Jerry Habeck, K Mart's vice president of advertising in Troy, Mich.
For all the popularity of promotional advertising, retailers and their agencies say they recognize the problems it can generate, like weakening a brand name's value and conditioning consumers to buy only when prices are marked down.
"It is inevitable that if you take the price message to its logical conclusion, you go out of business," said Tom Hall, president and chief executive at Ogilvy Chicago. That is why, he added, the agency, in creating Sears's holiday campaign, "gave consumers both kinds of messages, the price-product message and reasons why to feel smart or good about shopping at the store."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A commercial for Toys "R" Us promotes the stores' selection of lower-priced video games. (J. Walter Thompson)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (81%); 7974 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (83%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (83%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (81%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO; TOYS 'R' US INC; K MART CORP KMART CORP (85%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (84%); TOYS 'R' US INC (83%); MATTEL INC (81%); JWT (69%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (69%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); NINTENDO CO LTD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO; TOYS 'R' US INC; K MART CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; AD METHOD; HOLIDAY TRADE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (84%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SWEEPSTAKES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HOME CENTERS (74%); NETWORK TELEVISION (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); 

PERSON: DAVID DAVIS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



181 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Concerns on U.S. Economy Bring a Decline in the Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended weaker against major foreign currencies yesterday as new reports suggested problems with the United States economy.
Gold prices rose. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery rose $1.60, to $365.10 an ounce. A late bid at the Republic National Bank in New York quoted gold at $364.90, up $1.40. 
 The dollar opened higher early in the day after the Soviet Union told creditors it was halting payments on the principal portion of its foreign debt for one year.
Dan Scherman, senior trader at the Bank of Boston, said traders sought dollars as a safe haven after the Soviet announcement.
Against this backdrop, the dollar stood firm after the Commerce Department reported that gross domestic product in the third quarter was lower than had been expected. The G.D.P., the total output of goods and services produced inside the nation's borders, rose 1.7 percent from July through September. That was sharply below an earlier reported rate of 2.5 percent.
The dollar weakened, however, afterthe Federal Reserve released its so-called beige book survey of national business conditions, which suggested "flagging momentum" in October and November. Hardest hit were consumer spending, construction activity and factory production.
The dollar's losses accelerated after President Bush offered a pessimistic assessment of the economy in a speech before the American Enterprise Institute.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.7730, from $1.7715 late Tuesday. At the close in New York, a pound cost $1.7835, up from $1.7755 late Tuesday.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.05 yen, to a closing 129.25 yen. Later in London it was quoted at 129.38 yen. In New York, the dollar sold for 129.10 yen at closing, down from 129.30 late Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (51%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



182 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Bagging a 10,000-Pound Twig House in the Wilds of Maine

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: OLDWICK, N.J.

 BODY:
THE old adage says, "Never shop when depressed."
But Judyth van Amringe was depressed. Very depressed. 
 Business was slow. At the flea markets she frequents early on Sunday mornings, when the rest of the world is dreaming, the pickings were slim. Very slim. Like many of her cohorts in the antiques business, her spirit was being sapped by what she calls "that recession thing."
But one day last summer, as she was scanning The Newtown Bee, a Connecticut publication that is to antiques mavens what Field & Stream is to bass fishermen, fate intervened. It came in the form of an advertisement for an 8-by-20-foot house, handcrafted of logs and twigs, that was to be auctioned in Maine. That night, the 46-year-old Manhattanite tucked the now-crumpled ad under her pillow, as if she were expecting the twig fairy rather than the tooth fairy.
As the saying goes, she had to have it.
Thus began the Twig House Tale. Like the cat and dogs in "The Incredible Journey," who traipsed through the wilderness in search of their master, so the twig house began its inevitable 540-mile journey from rural Maine to Ms. van Amringe's weekend home in Hunterdon County, N.J.
For most people, life has its profound moments. Ms. van Amringe had hers while she was in her Saab at a toll booth on the New Jersey Turnpike. She suddenly caught sight of the twig house sitting on a flatbed truck in another lane, wheeling its way to her property, followed by another truck ceremoniously bearing oak logs for the foundation. It was, she said, "the perfect moment" -- and like any mother seeing her baby for the first time (hers weighed almost 10,000 pounds), she started to cry.
Ms. van Amringe's baby is approximately 95 years old and was originally a trapper's cabin, according to Charlie Melanson, a contractor in Westbrook, Me., who sold it to her and installed it.
The house came with wheels and a McMurtryesque legacy. The original owner was the town drunk, who used it both for trapping and for selling hot dogs at county fairs. He lost it in a card game. The victor willed it to his daughter, who in turn sold it to Mr. Melanson for $300 last year.
The auction was held last September in North Windham, Me., at M & S Discount, Mr. Melanson's antiques store. Ms. van Amringe wound up bidding against another antiques dealer from Manhattan and bought the house for $19,900.
"I had a gut feeling it was valuable," Mr. Melanson said. "If you want to sell anything, sell it to a New Yorker."
A month later, working 12 hours straight, Mr. Melanson and his crew trucked the house from North Windham to New Jersey and set it on its oak foundation, at a cost of $3,000. It joins a main house and three outbuildings in Ms. van Amringe's three acres of woods overlooking Mumford's Rock, a locally fabled trout pool. (Trout in the water appeal to her visually, but "once they're out of water, forget about it," she said.)
The house still conjures up images of hard drinking and tobacco, despite Ms. van Amringe's predilection for china decorated with trout flies. (She doesn't fish. She hates having to be quiet.)
Sitting now in a hollow framed by tree branches, with a tuft of smoke meandering out of its chimney, it out-Ralphs Ralph Lauren. It looks so perfectly woodsy that it could pose for a maple sugar bottle label.
It is not only an atmospheric prop but a work of folk art. The cedar log house is a miniature handmade world, with a cleverly arranged interior lined with wondrous gnarled burls. Its forgotten builder crafted shelves held up by dried fungi, a stone fireplace and a tiny closet containing a twig rod that looks like a crooked witch's finger. Etched into the beams are the names of the woods: "maple" where he used maple, "willow" where there is willow.
The fact that the house was crafted from twigs and moss, combined with the aroma of logs burnished with motor oil, appealed to Ms. van Amringe, whose own sensibility matches that of the builder (except for her knee-length black leather vest and velour leggings, a statement that springs from the wilds of SoHo).
For Ms. van Amringe, finding the twig house was the equivalent of Juliet combing the personals and finding Romeo. She has long been fascinated by little houses. A five-foot-high, six-foot-wide child's playhouse from the 1940's is one of the many objects adorning the bedroom of her duplex apartment in midtown Manhattan, an hour's drive from the twig house and her very fashionable whitewashed outhouse.
Ms. van Amringe's love of offbeat objects is exhibited in her shop on Greene Street in SoHo, which has a floor stenciled with poodles, a tribute to her two standard poodles, Bix and Ruby. Here she fashions her own versions of folk art: lamps with painted cords festooned with velvet grapes, Bakelite belt buckles, tassels and buttons. The lamps seem to be wearing hats and look as though they might drink tea and gossip.
A former fashion designer, Ms. van Amringe assembles interiors that seem to have sprouted magically from their source, as if they were divined by a Ouija board. She is adept at matching objects with places. By layering blankets, vintage fabrics, rugs and pillows, often bearing beads, buttons and other touches, she creates rooms that seem as if they have always been there.
The twig house was no exception: It took her all of one day to decorate it. Only Ms. van Amringe would just happen to have on hand a State of Maine blanket, a deer pictorial hooked rug, a copy of "Wood's Natural History," a portrait of an Indian maiden framed by birch bark, a collapsible chandelier, an ashtray made from a Maine license plate, ice-fishing decoys and a wooden box with "State of Maine" carved on it, bought at her favorite store -- a prison shop.
She knew in advance exactly where it would all go and hauled it to New Jersey in her poodle-ravaged car. "Once I set my mind to doing something, I do it -- fast," she said. She found the details of the house, like a fossil embedded in the fireplace stones, enchanting. "You sit here," she said, "and feel like you're in the middle of Maine somewhere."
But a Mainer probably would have been less likely to perch a fish weathervane in a wood pile for dramatic effect, or make an outdoor coat rack out of a tree branch plunked into an antique Christmas tree holder. Ms. van Amringe is esthetically fearless. She is the kind of person who checks into a hotel room and instantly sets about draping scarves over the lampshades and moving the furniture.
For her, there is equal beauty in a fossil and a fish hook, as well as a tiny twig house with an ever-so-picturesque sag at the bottom. Now the house, which she calls the chateau ("Isn't it adorable?"), seems as much a part of the landscape as a burl on a piece of wood. But it's doubtful a wizened trapper would recognize it, with its Beacon blanket throw pillows and artfully arranged bouquets of barbed wire.
Ms. van Amringe, who describes herself as a "three-month-a-year outdoor person," has yet to spend a night in the house. When a visitor asked how she intended to use it, she replied cheerfully, "I don't know."
But it's the thought that counts.
"Bye-bye," she said to the house, as she headed home to Manhattan. "Maybe I should have put it in a rented gallery space in SoHo. It's a work of art. Don't you think so?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judyth van Amringe's 8-by-20-foot twig house is a miniature handmade world that was moved 540 miles from North Windham, Me., to her weekend home in New Jersey. (pg. C1); Charlie Melanson and his crew mounted the twig house on a truck in Maine and drove it to New Jersey, where they celebrated with Judyth van Amringe and a bottle of 1941 champagne.; Judyth van Amringe sitting under a collapsible chandelier.; Bookends in the shape of a bisected moose.; Built-in desk is one legacy of forgotten builder. (Photographs bby Gary Guisinger and F.N. Kinney for The New York Times) (pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAABB (STO) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SAAB AB (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MAINE; HUNTERDON COUNTY (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); MAINE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%); CARD GAMES (60%); 

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH; VAN AMRINGE, JUDYTH

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



183 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: 'Boys' Film Leaves Studio Wondering

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Holiday decorations are splashed around the offices of 20th Century Fox, but the studio is probably the gloomiest in town.
After weeks of elaborate and expensive promotion of "For the Boys," the musical drama starring Bette Midler and James Caan, it has proved to be an unexpected box-office disappointment and perhaps the first major casualty of the holiday season, when moviegoing reaches a peak. The film, a sentimental and elaborately emotional story about two U.S.O. performers over 50 years, received mixed to good reviews, and in the studio and in the film industry it was seen as a potential winner. 
 But the trade newspaper Daily Variety called it "the holiday's only turkey" this week, and its dismal performance so far has unleashed a wave of anxiety and second-guessing about the future of movies aimed at audiences in their 30's, 40's and 50's. Beyond this, the fact that the industry can virtually write off a major movie after less than two weeks leaves the Fox studio despondent.
Joe Roth, the chairman of 20th Century Fox, said in an interview this week that he remained hopeful that "For the Boys" would emerge from the doldrums. "The fact is, we have terrific exit polls, as good as any movie we've released," he said. "Why haven't we made it so far? I wish I knew. If I knew I'd be able to correct it. I don't have any brilliant answers."
 
Some Hope Left
 The studio chief, whose record is largely successful, said he hoped the movie would eventually find an audience, and he cited other films appealing to adult audiences that also started slowly but eventually gathered momentum. These included the teary drama "Beaches," which starred Ms. Midler, and "The Verdict," a courtroom drama with Paul Newman.
But these films cost less than half the $40 million to $45 million that Fox paid for "For the Boys," not to mention promotion costs of probably $10 million to $15 million, making it one of the studio's most expensive and risky films. Although Fox is still basking in the financial sunshine because of the huge success of "Home Alone," the third-highest-grossing film in history, after "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial" and "Star Wars," its recent movies have been disappointments. These include, "Dying Young," "Dutch" and "Only the Lonely."
"For the Boys" opened nationally over the weekend, and in New York and Los Angeles the weekend before. It had grossed a paltry $5.9 million as of Monday, said Exhibitor Relations Inc., which monitors film releases for theater chains. In contrast, "The Addams Family" grossed $24.2 million on its first weekend. Other holiday films that are showing signs of being major successes are "Beauty and the Beast" and "My Girl."
"Kids went out to see 'The Addams Family' the first or second weekend because moviegoing for them is like a tribal ritual," Mr. Roth said. "For people over 25, this is not the case. But all of this sounds like an excuse on my part, and I don't want to do that. I have a lot of faith in this picture."
 
Reasons for Failure
 Film executives at Fox and elsewhere attribute the apparent failure of "For the Boys" to several factors, including the World War II story line, music that has little appeal for younger audiences and the film's trailer, which does not make clear what the movie is about. They also point to the odd relationship between Mr. Caan and Ms. Midler's characters, who seem to dislike each other and have little romantic involvement. The film's mixed reviews, strong competition from other movies and economic conditions were also cited.
One executive said: "What is this film really about? If you look at it in story and structure terms, it's about two characters who don't fall in love, who don't physically relate to each other. It's the nature of the story that does this film in." The executive said that in successful films geared to older audiences, such as "Driving Miss Daisy" and "On Golden Pond," the relationships were intense and believable, while the one in this movie was not.
As conceived, the story of "For the Boys" was harder edged, industry executives said. Ms. Midler, whose company produced the film, has been fascinated for years by the entertainer Martha Raye, who performed for troops in Vietnam and was shocked to find herself booed by demonstrators when she returned to the United States. As a result, executives said, Ms. Midler began shaping a film, with Mark Rydell, the director, that was to have an antiwar message, with her character turning against the war, while her partner, played by Mr. Caan, remained a hawk. During many rewrites, the film was softened considerably and the message blurred.
One prominent executive called the fate of "For the Boys" sad. "One would like to think there's an audience out there for this kind of movie," he said. "To some extent its failure so far may be the tone of the times. People are looking for escape entertainment. There should be room for 'For the Boys' to flourish, but there just doesn't seem to be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bette Midler in "For the Boys." (20th Century Fox)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FOR THE BOYS (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ADVERTISING; FINANCES HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); DRAMA FILMS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MOVIE THEATERS (72%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: MIDLER, BETTE; CAAN, JAMES; WEINRAUB, BERNARD JAMES CAAN (73%); BETTE MIDLER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



184 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Toward a 'Family Friendly' Work Place

BYLINE: By CAROL LAWSON

 BODY:
HER weekly calendar is a gridlock of meetings. Some are with parents who utter a familiar lament: If only they had 28 hours in a day, perhaps they might find the energy to handle jobs and raise children at the same time. Others are at corporations seeking ways to ease family stresses so employees can give their all when they are on the job.
Families and work. These are the two worlds of Ellen Galinsky, a co-president of the Families and Work Institute, a nonprofit research and advisory organization in New York. In the last decade, this 49-year-old educator and author has been a leader in efforts to bring the two together, to change corporate thinking so radically that American business might become what she calls "family friendly." 
 Progress has been slow and spotty. By Ms. Galinsky's own count, 33 percent of major American corporations have done almost nothing to help reduce employees' family pressures, and 46 percent more are just waking up to the issue. But the remaining 21 percent now offer employees an array of benefits like child-care assistance, leaves of absence to take care of infants or ill relatives, referral networks for the care of aging parents, job sharing and flexible work schedules to permit parents to spend more time with children.
"Only five years ago, work and family were seen by most corporations as very separate domains," Ms. Galinsky said. She said that while the recession may have slowed the spread of new family policies across the corporate landscape, the trend is irreversible.
Dr. T. Berry Brazelton, the Harvard pediatrician and child-rearing expert, said he was a great admirer of Ms. Galinsky.
"At first, corporations are not the least bit interested in what she has to say," Dr. Brazelton said. "But she has such drive and energy, yet her manner is so low key, that she is very convincing to high-powered people."
A preschool teacher by training, Ms. Galinsky has carved an unconventional career path. She testifies before Congress on family-related legislation, appears on television as an expert on child-rearing issues and travels around the country for speaking engagements.
But for most of her professional life Ms. Galinsky was on the faculty of Bank Street College, from which she received a master's degree in child development. She taught preschool children at Bank Street for five years, then did research and wrote books about child care and other subjects based on her own concerns as a parent and her interest in conflicts between work and family life.
The spark for Ms. Galinsky's career was struck one day when, as a sophomore at Vassar College, she walked into a child study class. Until then, she thought she was going to be a lawyer.
"The first day of the class, I said, 'Oh, wow, this is what I want to do,' " Ms. Galinsky recalled, her rapid-fire speech softened by a trace of her native West Virginia. "Vassar was very exciting at that time because it was on the cutting edge of studying how kids grow and how they learn."
Ms. Galinsky said that in the years when she was teaching, she always had a high opinion of her work, even though much of society does not regard teachers with the greatest respect.
"What happens to children is one of the most important issues this country can think about, so I never felt that I had a low-status job," she said. "I never went to cocktail parties and felt ashamed to say I was a teacher. I was always so proud."
That interest in children has inspired her books and research, as well as her newest and most ambitious venture, the Families and Work Institute. She founded it in 1989 with Dr. Dana Friedman, formerly a researcher in work-family issues at the Conference Board, a nonprofit business research organization.
After a shaky start and some sleepless nights for the two founders because of uncertain finances, the institute now has a staff of 21 and has raised $4.5 million in grants from corporations and foundations for research and consulting projects.
Ms. Galinsky is quick to concede that the name of her institute is something of a tongue twister. "Everybody gets it mixed up," she said. "We deliberately called it Families and Work, with 'families' first, because we are looking for ways to make family life better for people."
In one of its first projects, the institute helped design the $10 million family care development fund that was part of A.T.&T.'s collective bargaining agreement with its unions in 1989. The fund is to be used to increase the availability and quality of care available for employees' children and elderly family members.
Recently the institute published "The Corporate Reference Guide to Work-Family Programs," a study of 188 of the nation's largest companies. The guide, which grew out of a three-year study financed by the Ford Foundation, named four corporations as being "the most family friendly" in America: Aetna Life and Casualty, Corning, International Business Machines and Johnson & Johnson.
"These companies not only have programs like parental leave and flexible scheduling, but they encourage employees to use them without fear of jeopardizing their jobs," Ms. Galinsky said.
When she was president of the 76,000-member National Association for the Education of Young Children, Ms. Galinsky fought for the child-care bill that Congress passed in October 1990. "This bill recognizes child care as part of the social fabric of the country," she said.
Ms. Galinsky has been married for 26 years to Norman Galinsky, an artist who works at home. They have two children, a 22-year-old son and a 17-year-old daughter.
Mr. Galinsky said that he and his wife were often "looked at as sort of strange" in the suburbs where they lived. "We weren't a husband going to work and a wife staying home," said Mr. Galinsky, who has known his wife since they were in high school in Charleston, W.Va.
Ms. Galinsky said her husband, who does the grocery shopping and cooking, keeps the household going while she maintains her busy travel schedule. "I get up at 4 in the morning and go to places like Utah or Texas for the day," she said. "I try not to be away very much. And if my kids say, 'Come home,' I do."
At least two or three times a week, Ms. Galinsky meets with groups of parents as part of her research for corporations that want to develop family policies. Recently she met over lunch with mothers and fathers at a Ciba-Geigy plant in Suffern, N.Y.
She listened to familiar parental complaints: no time to themselves, no energy for their children. One mother said that with pots on the stove and both children needing help with homework, her evenings are "impossible."M
Ms. Galinsky gave a knowing nod. "With both parents working, we are a generation of pioneers," she said. "Sometimes I feel like we are assembling an airplane while we are flying it: we are inventing it as we go along."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In effort to reduce family stresses, Ellen Galinsky, in print dress, met parents at Ciba-Geigy plant in Suffern, N.Y. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: FAMILIES AND WORK INSTITUTE AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (56%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (83%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILIES AND WORK INSTITUTE FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (83%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; STRESS (HUMAN); CORPORATIONS; LABOR FAMILY (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); PARENTS (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); JOB SHARING (72%); WRITERS (69%); TESTIMONY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); 

PERSON: LAWSON, CAROL; GALINSKY, ELLEN JOHN MAJOR (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



185 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
J. I. Case Plans to Cut Work Force by 4,000

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Dec. 4

 BODY:
J. I. Case, the faltering maker of farm and construction equipment, will eliminate 4,000 jobs by the end of next year, paring its work force to about 21,000, its parent, Tenneco Inc., said today.
The cutbacks will be split evenly among plants in the United States and abroad, primarily in Europe, but the specific number of jobs to be eliminated at each of Case's 23 plants has not been determined, the company said. Case has more than 11,000 employees in North America, at nine plants in the Midwest and Canada. 
 Case, based in Racine, Wis., is the world's largest maker of small- and medium-sized construction equipment, like bulldozers and backhoes. It is the second-largst maker of farm equipment in North America, after John Deere Inc.
The job cuts were not a surprise. Tenneco posted a special charge against earnings of $461 million in the third quarter for expenses it projected then for shutting plants, trimming product lines, as well as for layoffs at Case. The operating loss for the quarter at Case was $169 million.
Robert J. Carlson, Case's president, said the cutbacks were forced by sliding demand for farm equipment in the last decade 10 years and "a severe economic recession" that had slashed sales of construction equipment.
"Though regrettable, these work force reductions are essential to our continued progress in very difficult market conditions," he said. Jobs of hourly and salaried workers, including managers and executives, will also be eliminated, the company said. Employees who lose their jobs will be paid severance and will receive extended benefits for a year, as well as counseling to find jobs.
The cutbacks are the latest move by Tenneco, which is based in Houston, since its new president, Michael H. Walsh, ordered a restructuring in September to stem growing losses. Other operations include packaging, shipbuilding, natural-gas pipelines, auto parts and chemicals.
The company halved its yearly dividend, to $1.60 a share, in September and has since signed agreements to raise $686 million from asset sales by the end of the year. The largest deal involves the sale of natural-gas liquid operations to the Enron Corporation, for $632 million.
Tenneco's shares rose 62.5 cents each today, to $34, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TEN (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CASE, J I, CO TENNECO INC (94%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CASE, J I, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR LAYOFFS (92%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (92%); LABOR FORCE (92%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (72%); NATURAL GAS (71%); NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (61%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (50%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



186 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: In the Nation;
A Predictable Demise

BYLINE: By TOM WICKER

 BODY:
John Sununu gave up the struggle to stay on as White House chief of staff more quickly than Sherman Adams did during the Eisenhower Administration. Both formerly were New Hampshire Governors, both regarded themselves as indispensable to Presidents who almost agreed, and both were disliked if not despised by the rest of Washington.
Mr. Sununu's offense was the more serious; he became a policy problem for President Bush and the Republican Party, widely regarded in and out of the White House as responsible for the Administration's lack of coherent policy on the domestic economy, its foot-dragging on environmental issues, and other political deficiencies. 
 Sherman Adams committed only the comparatively trivial political sins of accepting favors from a New England political friend, including a vicuna coat. But the Eisenhower Administration had taken a holier-than-thou stance on the supposed scandals of the Truman Administration, and Mr. Adams as White House gatekeeper -- he did not have a significant policy role -- had become known as the Abominable No-man; his firing became inevitable.
With the help of the President's dependence on him, he managed to hang on from June 1958, when his "indiscretions" became public, until September, when he finally was forced to resign. At that, a reluctant President Eisenhower had to enlist Vice President Nixon and Meade Alcorn, the Republican chairman, to do the job -- which might not have been done at all had not Mr. Adams become a party embarrassment, with the 1958 elections two months away.
How long Mr. Sununu has been under serious fire is not clear, but the heavy cannonading came in the last week or two. As in the Adams case, an election is just around the corner, this time the President's run for a second term. Mr. Bush seems to have been a little more forceful than General Eisenhower was; but again, a number of intermediaries -- including the President's son -- were enlisted to help do the deed.
Of these parallels, the most instructive is that Sherman Adams and John Sununu, undeniably able men, never seemed to understand that their abrasive style, abrupt decision-making and confidence in their own indispensability were not conducive to good White House political relations. Even a despised Congress, for example, needs to be treated with a certain deference, owing to its status and power as a coequal branch. Even a political opponent might be less hostile if treated more generously; and in politics as in real life, more flies are caught with honey than with vinegar.
Donald Regan, President Reagan's second chief of staff, also had a reputation for arrogance and abrasiveness; so did H. R. Haldeman in the Nixon Administration. The cases of Mr. Adams and Mr. Sununu are more remarkable, because both served as state Governors, and therefore came to the White House with the kind of political experience that should have warned them that the acid refusal and the cutting remark ultimately are of declining return.
It's true that any President needs someone to "take the heat" for him -- at least part of it -- as Mr. Sununu may well have been designated to do. Dwight Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan, in their different ways, are examples of Presidents who did not often appear to be deeply involved in political or policy battles, leaving that sort of thing to Mr. Adams and Mr. Regan; both Presidents left the White House still high in public esteem. President Carter, on the other hand, mixed personally but not always successfully into every controversy of his Administration -- and never quite acquired the high prestige and public popularity that are at the root of Presidential power.
Still, White House chiefs of staff can serve well without stepping on powerful toes; witness the successful tenure of James Baker 3d in the first Reagan Administration. He remained well liked personally but also served Mr. Reagan better than that particular President deserved. So as George Bush ponders a replacement for Mr. Sununu, he might look to Mr. Baker as a model. And the next chief would do well to keep a copy of "Measure for Measure" prominently at hand. For he or she will be only "drest in a little brief authority," not crowned and sceptered. And as Shakespeare warned, it may be "excellent to have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SCANDALS (76%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; SUNUNU, JOHN H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ADAMS, SHERMAN; EISENHOWER, DWIGHT DAVID (1890-1969) JOHN SUNUNU (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



187 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Unregistered Aliens Have Right to School

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your report on the economic fears of Long Islanders refers to a case in which an elementary school principal reported to Federal authorities two illegal immigrants, children who had come to register at his school (news article, Nov. 5). The case illustrates how immigrants become scapegoats in times of economic distress. The school principal's action reflects not only a blatant disregard for the law, but also widely prevalent misconceptions that immigrants are a drain on our economy. 
 The right of undocumented children to public education was firmly established by the Supreme Court in 1982 in Plyler v. Doe. In that case, the Court thoroughly examined, and rejected, the argument that undocumented children were a drain on public funds and should therefore be denied equal access to public schools. Instead the Court concluded that society's interests were best served by assuring these children a public education, particularly because many will become United States citizens, who will be unable to assume the responsibilities of citizenship if they have been deprived of an education.
The Court also noted that "illegal aliens underutilize public services, while contributing their labor to the local economy and tax money to the state fisc." This conclusion is consistently underscored by research studies indicating that immigrants have a net positive effect on our economy.
The economic crisis in Long Island that fueled this incident is, unfortunately, real enough. But targeting immigrant children is a misdirected and dangerous response, which keeps us from addressing the real problems we face.
 
JUDY RABINOVITZ
Counsel, Immigrants' Rights Project
American Civil Liberties Union
New York, Nov. 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



188 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising -- Addenda;
New Campaigns

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:

* DDB Needham Worldwide is promoting itself with print advertisements in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York that showcase a variety of its clients' products as "gift ideas for a merry Christmas." In a memo to agency employees, Keith Reinhard, chairman and chief executive, said the ads symbolize the agency's belief that in a soft economy advertising is "not a discretionary cost to be reduced or eliminated." The ad appears in The New York Times today on pages D12 and D13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: DDB NEEDHAM WORLDWIDE GMBH WERBEAGENTUR GWA (59%); DDB NEEDHAM WORLDWIDE INC (59%); DDB NEEDHAM WORLDWIDE PTY LTD (59%); DDB NEEDHAM WORLDWIDE PARTNERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); CHRISTMAS (87%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: KEITH L REINHARD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991



189 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2610 words

HEADLINE: THE LAST U.S. HOSTAGE;
Tea in Teheran: How Hostage Deal Was Born

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 5

 BODY:
As Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar recalls it, the moment he believed that all the Western hostages would be freed came when the Iranian President gave him his word of honor that Iran would use its influence to see that an intricate secret plan for ending the hostage ordeal would be carried out.
It was Sept. 11 and the United Nations Secretary General was having tea with President Hashemi Rafsanjani in his office in Teheran. 
 "I got a promise that the Iranians would help me as much as they could, and I was able to personally confirm all the arrangements with Rafsanjani," Mr. Perez de Cuellar recalled in interviews this week. "It was in those discussions that we prepared the final operation."
Although the United Nations had been actively seeking the release of the hostages for some months, the Teheran meeting started a new wave of United Nations-led negotiations that ranged from nuts-and-bolts shuttle diplomacy in nearly a dozen capitals to endless cajoling and convincing in Lebanon of the shadowy captors themselves by Mr. Perez de Cuellar's personal envoy, Giandomenico Picco. Mr. Perez de Cuellar, who is retiring at the end of this month after 10 years in his post, made the hostage issue a personal crusade, something he wanted to point to with pride when he left his position.
As a result of this unexpected United Nations initiative, 10 Western hostages were released beginning in August, along with dozens of Arabs held by Israeli-backed southern Lebanese forces and by the Israeli authorities, a process that culminated on Wednesday with the release of Terry A. Anderson. The Secretary General is quick to note that hostage ordeal is not over yet. Two Germans remain are still being held; about 275 Palestinian and Lebanese prisoners are still being detained by Israel, which is awaiting more information on the fate of its missing servicemen, and the bodies of two American hostages still have yet to be returned.
 
The Gulf War
Iran Fills Gap In the Region
 As Mr. Perez de Cuellar sees it, had it not been for the Persian Gulf war, American hostages might still be in captivity. The overwhelming American victory in the war produced a dynamic in the region that positioned Iran to fill the vacuum left by a weakened Iraq and to act as a reliable economic partner and diplomatic player.
In February and March, the Secretary General began a series of discussions with Kamal Kharrazi, Iran's Ambassador to the United Nations, in which he hammered home the new geopolitical reality, telling the Iranian that his country should seize the opportunity to strengthen its own position in the region. Whenever Mr. Kharrazi called, Mr. Perez de Cuellar gently turned the discussion to the subject of the hostages.
Mr. Rafsanjani was aided by his Foreign Minsiter, Ali Akbar Velayati, and by his close associate and United Nations envoy, Mr. Kharrazi. A psychologist educated at the University of Houston and former director of the Islamic Republic News Agency in Iran, Mr. Kharrazi was the former superior of Kazem Akhavan, a photojournalist and one of the four Iranians who were captured at a Christian checkpoint in Lebanon in 1982 and probably killed.
"I was myself very interested in helping to resolve the issue, especially since one of my colleagues was among the hostages," Mr. Kharrazi said in an interview. "I especially felt a sympathy for Terry Anderson because he was also a journalist."
But substantial opposition inside Iran as well as Iran's incomplete control of the captors made a swift resolution of the matter impossible. Iran enjoyed most control over the Revolutionary Justice Organization, which professed its allegiance to the goals of the Islamic Republic. But Teheran had less influence over the two other groups holding the Westerners, Islamic Holy War and Islamic Holy War for the Liberation of Palestine, which were committed to the freeing of Arab prisoners in Israel.
 
The U.N. Plan
Giving Something To All Players
 The United Nations' strategy was straightforward: give something to everyone without violating American and British determination not to make concessions to hostage holders. In the summer, Mr. Perez de Cuellar crafted a complicated plan that would facilitate the release of all "illegally held" detainees. Because the United States and Britain refused to negotiate, Israel became the broker for the West.
"I had the advantage that I was personally trusted by all the parties and that they looked on me as totally impartial," Mr. Perez de Cuellar said.
But it was the dogged negotiating efforts of Mr. Picco, the Secretary General's tight-lipped envoy who made it possible to bring to an end a particularly painful episode in recent American history.
Described by Mr. Perez de Cuellar as "more of a soldier than a diplomat," Mr. Picco passionately threw himself into the hostage project, shuttling to nearly a dozen capitals throughout the spring and summer in an effort to put together a wish list of all the demands. After Iran used its influence with Lebanese intermediaries to make contact with the captors, he traveled to them in the warrens of Lebanon, sometimes with a cloth bag over his head, an eerie repetition of the process begun by the Anglican envoy Terry Waite before he himself was seized.
By midsummer Mr. Perez de Cuellar was able to present Iran with a comprehensive plan. As Mr. Kharrazi described it, "The Secretary General came up with a package that took into account that the Lebanese people wanted their own detainees, the Western countries wanted their hostages and the Israelis wanted their servicemen. It was a step-by-step appraoch."
 
A Positive Note
'Good Will' Sign From the Iranians
 The first word of a hostage release as a "good-will gesture" came in a series of messages from Teheran, one from Hussein Musavian, Iran's Ambassador to Germany and a close associate of Mr. Rafsanjani and others from Iranian Foreign Ministry officials to David Reddaway, the British charge d'affaires in Teheran, and to a Swiss diplomat.
At the same time, Islamic Holy War, which held Mr. Anderson and another American, Thomas Sutherland, issued a communique that they would send an "envoy" within 48 hours to meet with the Secretary General. The envoy turned out to be a British journalist, John McCarthy, who carried an "extremely important message" from his captors upon his release on Aug. 8.
Although the written proposal in Arabic was frustratingly vague, Mr. McCarthy explained in a meeting with Mr. Perez de Cuellar near London that he had a more specific verbal offer, which the Secretary General recorded hastily in English on the back of a manila envelope: all the Western hostages in return for Sheik Abdel Karim Obeid, who was abducted by Israeli commandos in Lebanon in July 1989, and the release of hundreds of "freedom fighters" being held by Israel and European countries.
But the United States was opposed to any deal that would allow the early release of two Lebanese brothers in a prison in Germany for their role in the hijacking of a Trans World Airlines flight in 1985.
 
The Israeli Role
New Negotiator In the Process
 Israel, meanwhile, had actively entered the negotiations.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar, hoping perhaps for American help in dealing with Israel, asked Washington to identify and make contact with a potential Israeli negotiatior. The Administration turned to Uri Lubrani, the coordinator of Israeli activities in Lebanon and an Ambassador to Iran during the time of the Shah.
At first the Israelis expressed great irritation at suddenly being thrust into a pivotal role, arguing that Syria and Iran were the players who controlled events and could get the Western hostages freed any time they wished. Nonetheless, in meetings with Mr. Perez de Cuellar in Geneva in August, Mr. Lubrani and Yohanan Bein, the former deputy chief of mission at the United Nations, leaped into the fray. The Israelis made clear that they would release the Arab detainees held in Al Khiam prison, including Sheik Obeid, but only after they received authoritative information on its own servicemen.
Meanwhile, Mr. Picco's shuttle diplomacy and the release of hostages continued. On Aug. 11, Jerome Leyraud, a French aid worker who had been kidnapped only three days before, and Edward Austin Tracy, who had been held captive since October 1986, were freed.
 
The White House
Scowcroft Attends Secret Meetings
 The hostage affair was one of the Bush Administration's most sensitive foreign policy issues, prompting Mr. Bush to put Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, in charge of the brief. The relationship began by accident, over dinner at the White House, just days after Mr. Bush took over the Presidency. Mr. Perez de Cuellar recalled that when he mentioned the hostage problem to Mr. Bush, the President turned to Mr. Scowcroft and urged Mr. Perez de Cuellar to make contact with him whenever necessary. The United Nations official began regular telephone calls to Mr. Scowcroft, whom Mr. Perez de Cuellar described as "an old friend." Mr. Scowcroft even made several secret trips to New York to meet the Secretary General in his office or at his Sutton Place town house, sometimes not even informing Thomas Pickering, the American envoy to the United Nations, whose office was right across the street.
The meetings illustrated the quirks of secret diplomacy. When Mr. Scowcroft visited the United Nations just weeks ago, as Mr. Perez de Cuellar was heading for Europe to discuss hostage and other matters, he was recognized by a number of foreign delegates, who mercifully did not ask him about his mission.
The paradox of the secret channel, however, was that Mr. Scowcroft had been one of the three authors of the Tower Commission report, issued in the wake of the Iran-contra affair. The report recommended that the National Security Council avoid an operational role in policy making. "In part, the channel was a violation of that, yes," the Adminstration official said. "But this is an acknowledgment of the reality that sometimes there are certain kinds of diplomacy and there are exceptions to the rule."
 
A Crucial Juncture
U.N. Chief Meets With Top Iranians
 It was Mr. Perez de Cuellar's two-day trip to Teheran in September that solidified the hostage deal. He met not only with senior Iranian leaders but also with the families of the four Iranians who had disappeared years before in Lebanon, a gesture of good will that convinced the Iranian side of his humanitarian intentions.
On the same day that Mr. Perez de Cuellar met with Mr. Rafsanjani, the three weeks of United Nations-Israeli talks led to the first concrete Israeli move. The Israelis and the South Lebanon Army released 51 Arabs from Al Khiam and turned over the bodies of nine Lebanese guerrillas who had been killed and buried in Israel.
In return, the Israelis received the body of a Druse soldier who had been captured in April 1983. That left four missing Israelis unaccounted for. Most important for the Government was the fate of Capt. Ron Arad, an air force navigator who was shot down on the Lebanese coast in November 1986. The other three were lost in a battle with Syrian forces in the Bekaa region in June 1982.
On Sept. 24, the Revolutionary Justice Organization released a British hostage, Jack Mann. Less than a month later, Israel received confirmation of the death of an Israeli soldier missing in Lebanon, and two days later released 15 Arab prisoners, a "gesture" to keep the process moving, an Israeli Defense Ministry spokesman said. On the same day, an American professor, Jesse Turner, went free. Throughout the process, Mr. Picco pressed on.
 
Complications
Criticism Directed At White House
 By the beginning of November, Mr. Perez de Cuellar privately predicted that all of the detainees would be freed in one grand release by the end of the month. But he also began to complain about the unwillingness of the Bush Administration to lend more help to the process. He specifically had hoped that Washington would be "more helpful," he said at the time, by pressuring Israel to be more forthcoming in releasing Arab prisoners, and by supporting Mr. Rafsanjani and other cooperative Iranian officials by making conciliatory statements about Iran.
But the Bush Adminstration would not budge. "We were helpful in putting him in touch with Israel, but we were not prepared to give even a scintilla of a hint that we were involved in a deal making with Israel or anyone else," Ambassador Pickering said in an interview.
On Nov. 18, Mr. Waite and Mr. Sutherland were released in a gesture not precipitated by a move by Israel. The release coincided with an American-Iranian agreement at The Hague under which the United States returned $278 million for military claims by Iran and American exoneration of Iran in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, developments that Administration officials insisted were coincidental.
Even as Israeli officials said they would not free any more prisoners until they had authoritiative information on Mr. Arad, they also began to quietly express concern that they were being left behind in the rush to close the hostage file. Determined to stick the the comprehensive plan for a release of all detainees, Mr. Picco met with Mr. Lubrani and Mr. Bein in Europe on Nov. 22 to talk about the missing servicemen. He brought word from Iran that there was no objection to including the Israelis in the discussion.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar, meanwhile, asked the Israelis for a good-will gesture. On Dec. 1, they freed 25 more prisoners from Al Khiam.
 
Iran's Power
Decision Is Linked To Top Ayatollah
 The end of the ordeal for the American hostages was now in sight. Mr. Picco continued traveling, refining the final arrangements for their release. Three days in a row this week, an American hostage was set free.
But there remained a lingering mystery in the American hostage saga: just what did the captors get in return for freeing their charges?
Security officials interviewed in Lebanon said the decision to end the hostage saga came from the highest authority in Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who they said issued a "fatwa," or decree, ending all Iranian-linked covert operations in Lebanon. According to this version of events, there are new guidelines for the Party of God, an umbrella for pro-Iranian factions, to confine its activity to what was described as "resistance against Israel." As a means of pressure, Iran was said to have cut off financing to the kidnappers.
There were unconfirmed reports in Iran that the Teheran Government had committed itself to a large-scale reconstruction plan for Lebanon.
There were also reports from Iran that the kidnappers would not face retaliation. And despite official denials in Washington, it is highly unlikely that any such action will come.
"We finally have a peace process and a central government in Beirut extending its authority," a senior Administration official said. "Why would we ever want to get back into the quicksand of Lebanon?"
In the meantime, the United Nations will continue its efforts to win the release of the two Germans held in Lebanon and the Arab detainees held by Israel and its surrogate militia in southern Lebanon and to resolve the fate of the missing Israeli servicemen.
For the Secretary General, time is running out. He has vowed to do his utmost to end the hostage chapter before his mandate ends, in only 26 days.
"This has become something personal for me, something that must be seen through to the end," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arriving yesterday at the United States air base in Wiesbaden, Germany, Terry A. Anderson rushed to greet his sister, Peggy Say, who had worked tirelessly for his release from captivity in Lebanon. Page A12. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar of the United Nations, left, said that during a meeting on Sept. 11 in Teheran, above, President Hashemi Rafsanjani, right, promised that Iran would use its influence to help free all the Western hostages. The man at center was not identified. (Associated Press) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: HESSE, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAN IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (73%); HESSE, GERMANY (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES HOSTAGE TAKING (95%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); DESERT STORM (85%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); 

PERSON: PEREZ DE CUELLAR, JAVIER (SEC GEN); ANDERSON, TERRY A; SAY, PEGGY; RAFSANJANI, HASHEMI (PRES); PICCO, GIANDOMENICO HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



190 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA BUSINESS;
Daily News Files for Bankruptcy But Seeks to Continue Publishing

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
The Daily News filed for Federal bankruptcy court protection yesterday, and while the paper will probably continue to operate for now, the possibility that it will soon be sold or closed has greatly increased.
The paper's bankruptcy filing came on the same day that the Maxwell family's privately held companies, which control The Daily News and hundreds of other family companies, filed for bankruptcy in Britain. The British court appointed four partners at Arthur Andersen & Company, the accounting firm, to act as administrators of the private companies. [Page D7.] 
 Should The News be put up for sale, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, a real estate developer who also owns U.S. News & World Report, and Peter S. Kalikow, the owner of The New York Post and a real estate developer who himself is in personal bankruptcy, said yesterday that they would be interested in buying the paper, but only under conditions that would probably require significant concessions by the unions.
 
Unions Examine the Situation
 Because The News is in bankruptcy, it is likely to seek concessions from the unions to cut costs and increase profitability. The court could also impose changes in work rules and compensation.
"I don't know what else can be done to help the paper, but we'll take a look," said John P. Kennedy, president of New York Newspaper Printing Pressmen's Union Local 2.
Kevin Maxwell, the paper's publisher and the son of the late Robert Maxwell, said yesterday in New York that there was "no question at this time of any sale," and that a reorganization plan was now under way, presumably to try to cut costs.
The rapid collapse of the Maxwell empire began with the death of Robert Maxwell last month in bizarre circumstances in which he disappeared from his yacht in the middle of the night and was found dead in the water. The elder Mr. Maxwell bought The News only last March in the midst of a bitter strike and was regarded as the paper's savior.
The decision on what will ultimately happen to the paper is no longer firmly in Kevin Maxwell's hands, but he is scheduled to meet with union leaders today. He flew from London last night and went directly to The News and spoke with employees in the newsroom to reiterate the family's intention to keep the paper. Reporters said Mr. Maxwell spoke of having employees share in the ownership of the paper and pledged to try to emerge from bankruptcy as soon as possible. Mr. Maxwell also spoke expressed confidence that The News could raise the money it needed for the short run.
In a statement earlier in the day, the paper said it had filed for bankrupcy "to protect The Daily News against the uncertainties involving the Maxwell family's creditors in England and from a capital squeeze due to the debt problems of the family-owned businesses."
The statement continued, "Although The News is ahead of its 1991 business goals, the paper requires a continuing short-term investment of funds to continue operations and achieve consistent profitability. The present situation has cut off the owners' ability to assure that money."
The News filed for protection in New York from creditors under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code to obtain time to work out a plan to pay its debts. Generally, owners file for Chapter 11 when they want to continue to operate their businesses and the move seemed to be intended to insure that The News would not be closed precipitately, even though it was losing money.
"It seems to me like a very prudent way to keep The Daily News as distinct as possible from the Maxwell difficulties and to prevent Maxwell creditors from dismembering it," said James M. Lewis, a bankruptcy specialist at the law firm of McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe in Washington.
But Mr. Lewis noted that if the court-appointed administrators in London concluded that The News was not a viable business, they could move swiftly to petition the court for permission to close or sell it.
The News is owned by Maxwell Newspapers Inc., which in turn is owned by Maxwell Group Holdings Inc., a company incorporated in Delaware. But Maxwell Group Holdings is owned by Robert Maxwell Group P.L.C., based in London, which is now under the administration of Arthur Andersen and British courts.
In its bankruptcy petition, The News estimated its total assets as of Oct. 27 at $37.4 million and total liabilities of $53 million.
The petition projected that cash receipts over the next 30 days would be $21.6 million and that disbursements would be $23.3 million, for an operating deficit of $1.7 million. Just over half the disbursements projected were for payroll.
At a meeting yesterday with leaders of the paper's nine unions, company officials assured union leaders that the paper had access to sufficient funds to cover all payroll costs, though the source and quantity of funds to cover deficits remains unclear.
 
Big Unsecured Creditors
 Of the paper's 20 largest unsecured creditors listed in the filing, the greatest debt was to newsprint companies, which are owed over $16 million. The list also includes $312,00 owed to the 401k retirement plan for employees, $347,000 owed to the Newspaper Guild's welfare and pension funds, and $144,000 owned to the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers Union pension fund. More than $8 million is owed for rent, consulting fees, legal services, truck leasing, and other obligations.
John Talbot, an Arthur Andersen partner and one of the administrators appointed by the British court, said yesterday at a news conference in London that Arthur Andersen intended to examine The Daily News's operation to determine if it is near profitability, as the Maxwell family has claimed.
He said that his immediate intention was to maintain The News and as many of the other Maxwell businesses as possible, but that it was quite conceiveable that The News would eventually be sold.
 
Decision on Chapter 11
 An Arthur Andersen executive who spoke on condition of anonymity said that the decision for The News to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy was made before the administrators were appointed and that while they did not necessarily formally concur with the decision, they apparently acquiesced.
But he said that the Chapter 11 filing here did not change the ultimate authority of the British administrators as effective owners of The News.
Presumably some companies will be sold by the administrators to reduce the Maxwell family's debt, but the court has not ordered a liquidation of the Maxwell companies, in which case a receiver rather than administrators would have been appointed.
Based on interviews with several Arthur Andersen officials, the plan is for Arthur Andersen to audit The Daily News to determine its prospects for a profit next year. If an audit concludes that the paper is losing a great deal of money with small prospect of turning a profit, the the administrators may decide to sell or close it.
If the paper is judged to have profitability within its grasp, the administrtators would probably decide that it was in the shareholder's interest to allow it to operate, and its losses would be covered, at least for a while, because a profitable business would bring more in a sale.
Despite the gravity of the situation, union leaders and many of the paper's employees maintained a dogged optimism that The News would somehow survive, as it has survived both a strike and the death of the man who gave it a reprieve, Robert Maxwell, during the past year.
 
Optimism Among Employees
 George E. McDonald, president of the Allied Printing Trades Council, the umbrella organization for the paper's unions, emerged from a two-hour meeting with News executives saying, "We feel optimistic about the future of The News." He added that there had been no discussion of union concessions to reduce the paper's costs.
"We're being told we've been killed again, but we'll be around for awhile," said Juan Gonzalez, a News columnist, whose defiant stance was echoed by many others at The News.
In large part, the optimism seems based on the presumption that as a last resort, someone would buy the paper because of its progress in recovering circulation and advertising since a five-month strike ended in March. For instance, during the strike The News's daily circulation plummeted to 300,000 from 1.1 million. The paper now claims to sell over 800,000 papers each day.
 
Seeking a Superior Paper
 But Mr. Zuckerman, who owns The Atlantic as well as U.S. News & World Report, said that before buying the paper he would have to be persuaded that it could be a superior editorial product and could also be economically viable.
Mr. Zuckerman, who was one of the two prospective buyers for the paper in March, said his plan then was to bring the unions in as partners.
But Mr. Zuckerman said he was concerned about the shutdown liabilities which he estimated to be between $110 million and $120 million in March. These liabilities include severance pay and pension obligations.
Should The News close, the unions would probably try to collect severance pay from the Tribune Company, because the sale was so recent. Otherwise, employees would join the ranks of other debtors. And the Tribune Company has responsibility for the Daily News pension plan for five years from its sale to the late Mr. Maxwell.
 
An Invitation Is Wanted
 Mr. Kalikow, who is himself in Chapter 11 bankruptcy, said he would try to buy of The News only if the unions came to him.
Mr. Kalikow said that the Bankruptcy Court would be certain to view any acquisition by him with great skepticism, and that the proposition would have to be very attractive to win its support.
He said he once considered the possibility of merging the papers in a morning-afternoon combination, which he said was less likely now.
Mr. Kalikow said he intended to start a Sunday edition of The Post if The News ceased publication.
Union leaders said they think Mr. Kalikow's objective in buying The News would be to salvage the Sunday operation, and close down the daily paper.
"He doesn't look like a white knight at this point," said Mr. Kennedy of the pressmen's union.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Willse, foreground, the editor of The Daily News, called his staff together yesterday to discuss the newspaper's filing for bankruptcy protection amid the collapsing fortunes of the Maxwell family. (Associated Press) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK NEWS ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (72%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NEWS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (57%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); PUBLISHING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B; KALIKOW, PETER S; MAXWELL, KEVIN JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



191 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
STRIKING A DEAL ON HOSTAGES
As the U.N. Secretary General recalls it, the first sign that all the Western hostages would be freed came when the Iranian President gave him his word that Teheran would use its influence. A1
Terry Anderson was reunited with his sister in Germany. A12 

JAPAN PUTS OFF APOLOGY
A resolution expressing regret over wartime aggression has run into trouble in Japan's Parliament because of a furor over President Bush's refusal to apologize for the atomic attack on Hiroshima. A1
 
RELIVING PEARL HARBOR
Harrowing tales are being told and retold as more than 2,000 survivors of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor gather there for ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary on Saturday. D20
 
MANDELA PRESSES CASE WITH BUSH
Nelson Mandela met with President Bush and tried to convince him that forming an interim government with representatives of blacks would speed South Africa's transition to multiracial democracy. A3
 
U.N. RETHINKING ZIONISM VOTE
The Israeli delegate to the United Nations said the United States and Israel are confident they have the votes to repeal a General Assembly resolution equating Zionism with racism before the current session ends on Dec. 17. A3
 
ARABS DEMAND DATE FOR TALKS
Angered by Israel's delay, Arab delegations challenged the Bush Administration set a new official opening date for the resumption of Middle East peace talks. A5
 
ZAIRE'S CHIEF TO STAY ON
In a move likely to heighten tensions, President Mobutu of Zaire, whose seven-year term just ended, vowed to continue as head of state until new elections are held. A8
 
KEEPING AN EYE ON SOVIET ARMS
Pentagon officials say the shriveling central Soviet Government holds firm control over its 27,000 nuclear weapons, but that former republics are pressing for a greater say. A10
Ukraine's President offered reassurance at his swearing-in. A10
 
President Gorbachev said Moscow faces an urgent food crisis. A11
 
WALESA NOMINATES NEW PREMIER
President Walesa reluctantly nominated Jan Olszewski, a critic of Poland's free-market economic reforms, to become Poland's new Prime Minister. A9
 
National A14-27, D20
 
CONFUSION ON THE ECONOMY
Undecided about what to propose to revive the flagging economy, President Bush and his top economic advisers sent mixed signals about whether taxes should be cut and whether last year's budget agreement should stand. The confusion was most stark at the Capitol, on the first day of a series of Congressional hearings on tax policy and the state of the economy. A1
 
Mr. Bush ordered a hastened spending of $9.7 billion in Federal money. A27
 
NEW TEAM AT THE WHITE HOUSE
Trying to halt his political slide, the President appointed a pair of pragmatic moderates, Samuel K. Skinner and Robert M. Teeter, as White House chief of staff and head of the re-election campaign. A1
News analysis: What kind of campaign will Mr. Bush run? A1
 
Man in the News: Samuel Knox Skinner. A27
 
QUAYLE AIDE UNDER FIRE
The director of the Council on Competitiveness is under increasing attack for his participation in forging a pollution rule favoring a company in which he owns stock. A15
 
START-UP AT SAVANNAH RIVER
Three and a half years after the Energy Department closed all its bomb-fuel reactors because of poor equipment and ill-trained operators, it hopes to resume production in the next few days by running a single, 37-year-old reactor at the Savannah River complex in South Carolina. But even after a billion-dollar improvement program, the plant is still beset by safety questions.A14
 
ARLO AND ALICE
Great Barrington Journal: It was a quarter-century ago that Arlo Guthrie first sang "Alice's Restaurant." Now he is hoping his fans will help him purchase Alice's former home so that he can preserve it. A14
 
TENSION AT THE SMITH TRIAL
The woman who has accused William K. Smith of raping her broke down three times on the witness stand but finished testifying. A16
 
A NON-ISSUE, AVOIDED
Race remains an enduring topic in many elections around the country. But the two candidates in the Houston mayoral runoff -- one black, the other white -- have avoided implicit appeals to racial biases. A20
 
Quasar won on appeal of a job-bias verdict totaling $2.5 million. A25
The Klan's plan to participate in a parade brought protests. A14
 
Law Page B7
 
The no-nonsense judge running the Smith rape trial.
An emotional debate over a California death penalty case.
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
BANKRUPTCY FOR THE DAILY NEWS
The Daily News filed for Federal bankruptcy protection. While it will probably continue to operate for now, the possibility that The News will soon be sold or closed increased significantly. The action, nine months after the paper's rescue by Robert Maxwell, came as his family's privately held companies filed for bankruptcy in Britain. A1
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Weekend C1-34
 
"The Spanish Guitar," at the Metropolitan Museum. C1
For Children. C6
Theater: On Stage, and Off. C2
"Marvin's Room." C1
"Catskills on Broadway." C28
Film: "Star Trek VI." C1
At the Movies. C8
"At Play in the Fields of the Lord." C8
Dance: Garth Fagan premiere. C3
New work by Ailey troupe. C3
City Ballet "Nutcracker." C33
Restaurants C22
Art: Paintings of the 40's. C26
Word and Image: "Naked to the Waist," stories. C33
 
Obituaries D21
 
Richard Speck, killer of eight in Chicago 25 years ago
 
Sports B8-15
 
Baseball: Nederlander will leave Yankees. B9
Bonilla, at Shea, recalls his dreams. B11
Basketball: Virginia surprises Georgetown. B9
Column: Berkow on the Bonilla. B9
Football: Officials say I.R.S. ruling could hurt bowls. B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A34-35
 
Editorials A34
Which foot forward?
Deft minority scholarships.
Stop The Bomb, everywhere.
In N.Y., the doctor is out.
Letters A34
Anthony Lewis: Realism and evil. A35
A. M. Rosenthal: Thank them not. A35
Yelena G. Bonner: Why is the West afraid of freedom? A35

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arlo Guthrie wants to preserve Alice's home. A14 (Rick Friedman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); POLAND (92%); IRAN (90%); UKRAINE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); POLAND (92%); IRAN (90%); UKRAINE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); BUDGETS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



192 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AND ADVISERS GIVE MIXED SIGNALS ON ECONOMIC PLAN

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
President Bush and his top economic advisers, undecided about what to propose to revive the flagging economy, sent mixed signals today on cutting taxes and on whether to violate last year's budget agreement.
The confusion was clearest on Capitol Hill. On the first day of a series of Congressional hearings on tax policy and the state of the economy, the economic advisers at first suggested that giving the economy a quick jolt was more important than holding to the budget agreement. But they came back from a short lunch saying that breaking the agreement was unacceptable. 
 The contrary messages seemed to underscore what public opinion polls show to be the President's most serious political vulnerability: his Administration's seeming lack of a coherent economic policy.
 
President Criticizes Congress
 The President himself heightened political tension over the economy at a news conference. While his advisers at the hearing were urging lawmakers to work in a bipartisan fashion, Mr. Bush blamed Congress for worsening the economy by not passing measures he had proposed over the last three years.
He said that after he reveals his new proposals in his State of the Union Message next month, he would go "directly to the American people, over the heads of the subcommittees and the Congress and say, 'Please support us in helping this economy.' "
The discussion of the economy today came as Mr. Bush named a new chief of staff, Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner, and a team of close associates to run his re-election campaign.
Mr. Bush also ordered the speedup of $9.7 billion in Federal spending, but economists said the amount was too small to kick life into a $5 trillion economy. [Page A27.]
 
Torn Between Methods
 The President and his chief advisers are under severe political pressure to take steps to speed the nation's recovery from recession, and the Democrats are determined to tighten the screws at every opportunity. But the Administration seems torn between conservatives who are interested primarily in tax cuts and care little about the budget deficit and moderates who see the deficit, about $350 billion this year, as a monstrous long-term weight on the economy that must be lifted. The President and his inner circle may not disagree so much among themselves as they are worried about the potential for political damage in picking one course above the other.
The budget law enacted last year after tortuous negotiations between the White House and Congressional leaders required that any tax cut be offset by tax increases elsewhere or spending reductions in domestic programs.
Early in a long day of testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee, Richard G. Darman, the budget director, was asked whether those budget rules should be broken in the interest of stimulating the economy.
He replied, "I would very much hope that we could continue to live within the discipline of the budget agreement.
Our first objective has to be restoring short-term growth on a basis that is sustainable with respect to long-term growth."
"If we can do that within the budget framework, we should," he continued, "but the first priority is growth."
And Michael J. Boskin, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, testified it was a "myth" that any measure that would increase the budget deficit would automatically lead to a counterproductive jump in long-term interest rates because of the fear of inflation.
 
New Tune After Lunch
 But the Administration's tune seemed to change after a 20-minute lunch break. Asked shortly after lunch whether he believed that the budget deficit should not be "violated," Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady replied, "That's correct. If it was violated, it would raise interest rates."
By the end of the day, Mr. Darman was saying that breaking the budget deal would shock the markets and central bankers around the world.
Mr. Darman told a Democratic questioner that it would be unacceptable to cut military spending or raise taxes on the wealthy to finance a tax reduction for middle-income taxpayers.
Dozens of Democrats are sponsoring bills that they say would provide middle-class tax relief. The measures differ widely. But almost all of them would cut by hundreds of dollars a year the taxes of households with annual incomes in the $20,000 to $60,000 range, and they would offset the cost with either cuts in military spending, increased taxes on the wealthy or both.
 
Exchange With Reporters
 At his news conference, Mr. Bush seemed to vacillate over whether he supported tax cuts for those people. He had this exchange with reporters:
Q. Do you think the middle class deserve a tax cut?
A. Listen, I think every American deserves to pay less taxes.
Q. Do you think, though, that the need is such that that is an area where you would consider breaking the budget agreement?
A. I don't want interest rates to go sky high. I noticed tht when one proposal was proposed, long-term interest rates, just on the proposal, went up through the roof. So whatever we do has got to be economically sound. But if your answer is, do I think the middle class are paying a very heavy tax burden, the answer to the question is, absolutely."
The Democrats sponsoring the tax measures are scheduled to appear before the Ways and Means Committee Friday, as are conservative Republican representatives who are backing a package of tax cuts that they say would generate economic growth.
 
Behind Political Tussle
 It was the Republicans' offering of that package just before Thanksgiving in the last days of the Congressional session and the President's endorsement of the plan when it had barely been drafted that generated today's hearing and the current political tussle. The Democrats believe they can score politically by showing that the vast majority of tax relief from the Republican plan would go to the wealthiest Americans.
The President's advisers bobbed and weaved today when they were asked about the plan. Mr. Brady kept repeating that the President was "enthusiastic" about the package but he added that "with regard to proposals in the package, some of them are ones that he has approved before, some of them are ones that he hasn't and some are the ones we are looking at."
Among the many elements of the plan are a lower capital-gains tax, a new form of individual retirement account, an increase in the amount of money older people can earn without having their Social Security benefits reduced and new tax breaks for small businesses and real estate investments.
The Congressional Joint Tax Committee, responsible to the Democratic leaders of Congress, have figured that the plan would cost the Government more than $25 billion over the next five years. But the Treasury, using an accounting system that calculates that some tax cuts actually raise revenue, maintains that the package would neither increase nor lower income over all.
 
Brady Limits Comment
 Asked whether he wished Congress had hastily passed the plan before adjournment, Mr. Brady responded, "I was enthusiastic about it, and I'm going to leave my comments there."
The Democrats base their views on taxation on what they call "fairness." In general, that means higher taxes on the wealthy and lower taxes on the poor and the middle class.
The President and his advisers say that redistributing income would do nothing to improve the economy. They favor tax breaks for the wealthy on the ground that they would stimulate investment and cause the entire economy to grow.
That is the basis of the long-running dispute over the taxes on capital gains, which are the profits from investments, a dispute that was rehashed in detail again today.
The President's advisers said today that such a tax cut would give the economy an immediate boost, and they emphasized a position they had mentioned only in passing in previous debates on the issue. That is the view that a capital-gains cut would improve real estate prices and help an industry that is in such bad shape it is dragging down the entire economy.
For their part, the Democrats repeated their fairness argument and emphasized that the investments that generate capital gains were mostly held by the wealthy.
Answering that argument, Mr. Darman declared, "If you can get the economy growing, that is fair. And if you fail to get the economy growing, that is fundamentally unfair."
 
Plea for Unity
 Throughout the Congressional hearing, Mr. Brady, Mr. Darman and Mr. Boskin insisted that the time had come to put aside partisan bickering and to find a way to fix the sorry state of the economy.
But the President seemed to be of a different mind. Although he exerted almost no effort this year to get his economic proposals, like a capital-gains cut, through Congress, he scored Congress for not acting on them.
"For three straight years," the President said at his news conference, "I have had economic growth proposals put before the Congress. And for three straight years, the ideas we've put forward have not been enacted by Congress."
Representative Thomas J. Downey, a Democrat from Suffolk County, did not know about the President's remarks when his turn came to question the Administration officials. But one of Mr. Downey's comments was probably descriptive of how the debate over the economy is likely to proceed during the Presidential election year.
Democrats and Republicans, Mr. Downey said, have "major differences in how we view the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Dan Rostenkowski, left, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, spoke with Michael J. Boskin, right, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady yesterday before the committee hearing on tax issues. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); TESTIMONY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



193 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Bush Names New Staff Chief and Campaign Team

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
President Bush tried to halt his political slide today by appointing Samuel K. Skinner and Robert M. Teeter, a pair of pragmatic moderates, to run his staff and his re-election campaign.
As he appointed Mr. Skinner, who is now Transportation Secretary, as his chief of staff, and Mr. Teeter, who is his poll-taker, as his day-to-day campaign manager and chief political strategist, Mr. Bush also made a new attempt to demonstrate his concern for what he called the "extraordinarily sluggish" economy. 
 He announced that he was speeding up $9.7 billion in Federal spending for 1992 in hopes of spurring economic growth but he made it clear that he was still planning to wait until his State of the Union address in late January to make any substantive economic proposals.
 
Sununu's Replacement
 Mr. Bush named Mr. Skinner to replace John H. Sununu, the combativeformer Governor of New Hampshire who tendered his forced resignation on Tuesday. Mr. Skinner is to take up his new duties on Dec. 16, and White House advisers predicted a sharp departure from Mr. Sununu's autocratic, exclusionary operating style. [Man in the News, page A27.]
At a White House news conference, the President also named the seven top officials of his 1992 campaign staff, who included Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher as the general campaign chairman. It was an array of longtime advisers and political tacticians chosen more for their closeness to the President and their campaign resumes than for their adherence to conservative Republican ideology.
As six of the seven immediately huddled in a White House office for their first organizational session, members of the party's rebellious right wing promptly denounced the lineup, including Mr. Skinner.
Mr. Bush brushed off the challenge to his candidacy from the Republican right. Instead, he seemed eager to clear the air of confusion in his White House after weeks of buffeting from Democratic and conservative Republican attacks on his economic policies.
Incongruously, Mr. Bush still declined to announce his candidacy for re-election, a formality that he said he was putting off until early next year. But Mr. Bush's appearance was suffused with the words and tone of a Presidential candidate trying to recoup lost ground, even as he acknowledged that he had lost some of the confidence of the public.
Asked why Americans' faith had been shaken in a President who once soared in the opinion polls and whether he could win the election if the economy is still bad next year, Mr. Bush said: "The answer to the first question is the economy. The answer to the second -- you said if the economy is bad can I get re-elected -- and the answer is, 'Yes, 'cause I'm a good President.' "
Mr. Skinner will control the President's schedule, have a strong hand in policy and help formulate what the White House has to say on all issues. In this way, he will have a major voice in the campaign from his office, an arrangement that many Republicans thought would have been virtually impossible under Mr. Sununu. Mr. Skinner gets along well with all of the members of the new campaign team, especially Mr. Teeter, whom he first met on the 1966 Illinois gubernatorial campaign of James R. Thompson.
Mr. Bush's appointment of Mr. Skinner immediately touched off anticipation in the White House that he would radically revamp Mr. Sununu's staff structure. Mr. Sununu had concentrated all of the power in his own hands and those of Richard G. Darman, the budget director, who has clashed in the past with Mr. Skinner but who is likely to remain a potent force.
"We'll more likely go back to a more normal White House staff, with a broader sweep in the domestic policy office and a broader sweep in the communications office -- four or five essential players instead of one or two," said one official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
 
Essential Challenge
 But Mr. Skinner's essential challenge will not lie in staff reorganization.
"We can improve communications a little, he can do this and he can do that, and it can be a friendlier place than under Sununu," the official said. "But the rap against Sununu was that Brent Scowcroft and those guys had a coherent and apparently successful foreign policy but where is the domestic policy?" Mr. Scowcroft is the President's National Security Adviser.
The official added: "The conventional wisdom is that a lot of Republicans around town think that the campaign has the heavyweights, the campaign's going to run everything. They will be very, very important. But in a re-election, you have to govern and you're going to be judged to some degree on your governing. Skinner's well aware of that."
As the removal of Mr. Sununu, a staunch conservative, had become an increasingly foregone conclusion over recent weeks, conservatives have been agitating for some presence in the White House staff.
"Bush didn't even throw a bone to the conservatives today," said Richard Viguerie, chairman of United Conservatives of America. "This announcement today is going to cause conservatives to realize that they have no stake in the Bush White House. This was an insult."
Although many conservatives have now targeted Mr. Darman as their primary adversary on the Bush team, Mr. Skinner has already undertaken damage-control efforts.
Vice President Dan Quayle polled Capitol Hill conservatives before Mr. Bush announced his appointment and is preparing to protect Mr. Skinner's right flank. Some White House aides have speculated that Mr. Skinner, who has a reputation as a get-along Chicago "pol," could bring in a conservative deputy, in much the way that Howard H. Baker Jr. did when President Ronald Reagan made him chief of staff and he brought in Kenneth Cribb, a conservative aide to Edwin Meese 3d.
Mr. Bush said today that he did not believe he had had a problem with his conservative wing, from which David Duke, the former Nazi and Ku Klux Klansman, has already mounted a campaign. Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator and former Nixon and Reagan White House aide, is expected to announce a challenge to Mr. Bush next week.
 
'Get Out Our Message'
 Asked what he could do to counter these challenges, Mr. Bush said: "Get our message out, help turn this economy around, help people and get our record, through a very active campaign organization, out to the American people. The playing field has had a handful of people out there who don't see things the way I do, this campaign field. And they've been dominating, because there's been nobody out there shooting back."
Mr. Skinner's appointment, which had been expected, was the centerpiece of today's news conference. But at the same time, the President moved to ease concerns within the Republican Party that he was taking too long to put his campaign into motion by naming the top staff of Bush-Quayle '92.
Although he will be general chairman, Mr. Mosbacher will not have overall control of the campaign strategy. Mr. Bush gave that power to Mr. Teeter, a Michigan poll-taker who has been a leading Bush adviser for years but has no experiencing running a national campaign.
 
Nuts and Bolts
 Frederic V. Malek, a businessman, former Nixon White House aide and a longtime friend of Mr. Bush, was named as the nuts-and-bolts manager in charge of the campaign organization itself.
Charles Black, a Republican consultant whom Mr. Bush today described as the successor to his longtime political tactician, the late Lee Atwater, will be a "senior adviser" to the campaign, an influential post that he will hold on a part-time basis.
Mary Matalin, a protegee of Mr. Atwater who is now chief of staff of the Republican National Committee, will be in charge of state organizations, ballot filing and delegates, a job normally given the title of political director.
Mr. Bush also said that Richard N. Bond, a Republican consultant who was his 1988 political director, will play an important role in the campaign, along with his son, George W. Bush.
Republican strategists said Mr. Bond will have a part-time advisory role, subordinate to Mr. Black. Mr. Bush's son, one official said, "will do what he always has done -- act as his father's ultimate confidant, eyes and ears, trouble shooter, problem solver, and appeal of last resort."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of President Bush's re-election team and advisers at the White House. From left were Samuel K. Skinner, new chief of staff; his predecessor, John H. Sununu; Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher, campaign chairman; Robert M. Teeter, chief strategist; Richard N. Bond, field organizer; Frederic V. Malek, campaign manager; Clayton Yeutter, Republican national chairman; Robert Holt, fund-raiser, and Mary Matalin, political director. Secret Service agents stood at rear. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A1); President Bush meeting in the Oval Office with Samuel K. Skinner, whom Mr. Bush appointed his chief of staff. (Reuters) (pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS (ROBERT M) HOLDINGS PLC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 APPOINTMENTS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SKINNER, SAMUEL K (SEC); SUNUNU, JOHN H; MOSBACHER, ROBERT A (SEC); TEETER, ROBERT M GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOEL V STAFF (74%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



194 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Reading Bush's Lineup

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
The new leadership for the White House staff and for the re-election campaign that President Bush announced today emphasizes experience, technical skills and a nonideological approach, but it includes no one who has ever run a large-scale political enterprise.
The lineup shows how deep the Republican Party's talent pool has become after five successful Presidential races of the last six attempts. What it does not show is what kind of campaign Mr. Bush will run in 1992. 
 Mr. Bush is certain to emphasize his incumbency and his record, particularly the victory in the Persian Gulf war, and economic recovery if it develops. Charles R. Black, whom the President chose as a part-time "senior adviser," said some time ago, "His biggest strength is simply being President."
 
Waltz vs. Brawl
 Most incumbents run bland, low-content re-election efforts, like Richard M. Nixon's Rose Garden campaign of 1972 and Ronald Reagan's waltz in 1984. But Mr. Bush put a rough edge on his campaign three years ago, typified by the commercials identifying his rival, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, with the black convict Willie Horton, and some have suggested he might use similar techniques this year, especially now that the race seems likely to be less of a walkover.
To a degree, that choice will be affected by the choice of a media director -- a conspicuous absence from the list of appointees announced today.
Roger Ailes, the New Yorker who put together Mr. Bush's hard-hitting advertising in 1988, will not oversee the media operation this year and may have no role at all. He is said to have told the White House more than a month ago that he did not want to be heavily involved, because he had gained profitable commercial clients in recent months whom he did not want to lose, because his wife had been ill and because he feared that involvement next year might cause controversy that would prove embarrassing to Mr. Bush.
Some Republicans expect Mr. Bush to use a variety of advertising experts eventually, and several experienced strategists warned that it was too soon to tell whether a lofty or a down-and-dirty approach would be followed.
Eddie Mahe, one of the most experienced Republican tacticians, said he thought there would be considerable sentiment within the campaign organization for "aggressively defining the opposition," or attacking his weak points, as soon as a Democratic nominee is chosen. That, he said, was the best way to avoid the danger of losing the initiative after the conventions.
Of the new appointees, only Mr. Black, a protege of Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina who helped found the National Conservative Political Action Committee in the 1970's to help defeat liberal senators, has close ties to the party's right wing. And even he has a reputation as a pragmatist who defines success in terms of winning elections, not maintaining policy purity.
 
Role of Campaign Manager
 It is not entirely clear precisely what roles each of those chosen by Mr. Bush will play next year, although it is evident that Robert M. Teeter, the longtime Republican poll taker, will be the principal strategist. His title is campaign chairman, but he will in fact be the manager of the campaign, a role he has not previously played.
"How it all fits together -- that's the question for the next three weeks," Mr. Teeter said in an interview. "But what you always end up with in these things is four or five or six people running the show. You meet at the start of every day, divide up the work, then meet again at the end of the day."
Robert A. Mosbacher, who as general chairman will hold the hands of principal figures, big contributors and party stalwarts, earned his job not through political expertise or philosophy but because he is an longtime, trusted friend of the President who can be relied on to look out for his interests while also functioning as a campaign spokesman and helping out with strategy. George W. Bush, the President's oldest son, will handle somewhat similar chores.
 
A Potential Weakness
 Mr. Teeter's lack of executive experience is one of the relatively few potential weaknesses in the team, senior Republicans said, but they believe that Frederic V. Malek will compensate for that. A seasoned administrator and businessman who earned his spurs as one of the many hit men in the Nixon White House, he will function as the chief operating officer, Mr. Teeter said.
Mary Matalin, Republican National Committee's chief of staff, will leave that post to take on major organizational responsibilities in the campaign, a tipoff that the committee, under its politically inexperienced chairman, Clayton K. Yeutter, will play a decidedly secondary role. She is valued as a former assistant to the late Lee Atwater, the sparkplug of the 1988 Bush campaign, who knows and has maintained his national political network.
Mr. Bush has clearly sought to make up for the fact that he will have the services next year of neither Mr. Atwater nor James A. Baker 3d, now the Secretary of State, who were given much of the credit for his victory.
The departure of John H. Sununu, with whom Mr. Teeter found it hard to work, will clearly make the campaign run more smoothly. Indeed, the tensions between the two delayed the completion of the campaign roster. But it also upset hard-line conservatives, all the more so because Mr. Teeter is seen as a moderate and Samuel K. Skinner, Mr. Sununu's successor, is seen as nonideological.
"No sincere conservative" will believe Mr. Bush's statement "that his Administration is a conservative one," said L. Brent Bozell 3d, executive director of the Conservative Victory Committee. But mainstream Republicans cheered the appointments. Mitch Daniels, a former White House political director, said that "elections are won or lost in the center, and this is a strong unit full of real heavyweights that should serve George Bush well."
Mr. Mahe said he was most encouraged by the agreement of Rich Bond, who served as political director in 1988, to participate again this time. He is considered a highly adept field organizer. Without him, Mr. Mahe said, "there wouldn't have been a single person in there with street smarts."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SHOCK ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); DESERT STORM (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SKINNER, SAMUEL K (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); ROGER AILES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



195 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Japan's Cash Fountain Has All but Dried Up

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Dec. 6

 BODY:
The Tokyo stock market, which had been a fountain of cash that financed an investment boom in corporate Japan over the last five years, has all but dried up.
The closely watched Nikkei index of 225 issues continued its decline today, ending the session off 14.11 points, to 22,445.06, after falling 210.27 points Thursday. That leaves the index down about 17.4 percent from its 1991 peak in March, making this the second consecutive disappointing year. A slowing economy, tumbling corporate profits and a gloomy outlook on the part of corporate managers have dampened the market, even after Government steps to stimulate it this fall with two interest-rate cuts. 
 But those bearish figures tell only half the story. The amount of fresh capital raised with stock issues has plunged this year. And those issues that have come to market have often performed miserably -- another sign that the era of almost limitless cheap capital, which corporate Japan enjoyed for the latter half of the 1980's, is history.
It also suggests that the soaring level of capital investment by corporations, which fueled the competitiveness and economic growth of Japan Inc., is sputtering. Japanese companies have been outspending their American counterparts on plant, equipment and research by tens of billions of dollars a year. Some of that advantage may now be blunted by the poor stock market.
Perhaps the best measure of the market's malaise was the dismal reception investors recently gave to the sale of a big stake in Sony Music Entertainment, a spinoff of the Sony Corporation.
The record and music company's shares were offered on Nov. 22 at 6,800 yen each, or about $52.70. They immediately plummeted, and they closed here Thursday at 5,150 yen, or about $39.90. The company had been hurt by the defection of the Rolling Stones to another record label, but analysts said it was also a victim of the weak market.
"This acknowledges that the market is in trouble," said Liam Newberg, a senior analyst here at Merrill Lynch Japan. "Frankly, if you consider the factors in the market, I don't think it's fallen that low yet."
Because of experiences like Sony's, the issuance of new shares nose-dived, to 669 billion yen in the first 10 months of this year, from 3.4 trillion yen for all of last year and 8.5 trillion yen in the frothy days of 1989. Companies are turning increasingly to the bond markets, where they are paying much higher rates for their capital after years of being spoiled by the ease of selling new shares on the stock market.
In the late 1980's companies often issued bonds convertible into stock or with warrants attached to buy stock at certain prices. Because of the soaring stock market, companies at times paid nothing -- literally, zero interest -- for this capital. It was common to pay less than 2 percent.
When they turn to the bond market these days Japanese corporations pay more than 6 percent, often much more. For the first time in almost five years, Japanese companies are paying about as much as their American and European counterparts.
"Investor confidence is very weak everywhere you look," said Yuichi Matsushita, a market strategist at Nikko Securities, "and I think the trend is going to continue at least through the end of the year."
To try to halt the erosion in confidence, the Japan Securities Dealers Association has slammed the door on new stock offerings this year in the over-the-counter market, affecting about 20 companies. Although such decisions are left to the markets in many other countries, they are tightly controlled here.
Ten of the 22 issues that opened on the over-the-counter market in November before the ban took effect tumbled immediately. Five companies that had wanted to sell shares for the first time on the Tokyo stock exchange are reported to have dropped their plans, too.
The grim picture means that the Japanese market is closing the second year of a major bear market with a growl. Since the Nikkei index reached an all-time high of almost 39,000 two years ago, the market crashed twice in 1990, in response first to soaring interest rates and then to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
It languished most of this year, with investors hoping that the Bank of Japan would finally ease its tight grip on the money supply and that the Finance Ministry would remove the full nelson it had applied to real estate lending by banks.
But even with the central bank lowering its discount rate twice, to 5 percent, and the Finance Ministry reportedly ready to ease up on property lending, the market's psychology has not improved. It has had to contend with falling corporate profits and new forecasts that the Japanese economy may grow by less than 3 percent next year, which is a recession by Japan's exacting standards.
Analysts now expect that in the fiscal year that ends March 31, aggregate corporate profits will decline by more than 10 percent from the previous year.
The problems have also hit Japan's major commercial banks. Unlike American banks, Japanese banks are permitted to own shares in industrial concerns, and most of them have huge portfolios. They are able to apply 45 percent of the value of these portfolios toward their regulatory capital requirements. When the market tumbles, however, it threatens to push the banks below the statutory minimum capital level, 8 percent of their assets.
"The problems start for the banks when the Nikkei falls below 23,000, but it gets really ugly when it falls below 21,000," said Alicia Ogawa, the banking analyst at S. G. Warburg Securities here.
She said that Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, Japan and the world's second largest, is already below the 8 percent level. If the Nikkei index falls below 21,000, Ms. Ogawa added, Fuji Bank, Tokai Bank and the Bank of Tokyo would be below the limit. The capital problems could further constrict lending and weaken the economy.
A number of other factors are bearing down on the stock market. One is that the December stock index futures contract expires next Friday, the 13th, appropriately enough.
Mr. Newberg of Merrill Lynch said the stock exchange recently reported that there was 1.19 trillion yen, or about $9 billion, worth of contracts outstanding that were part of complicated program trades. A portion of these contracts might have to be sold by the expiration, which could send stock prices tumbling further, he added.
Alan Bell, an analyst here for Baring Securities, said investors had also been worried about a high rate of stock sales by various kinds of mutual funds and trusts. "It's become a kind of vicious circle, with the worries feeding on themselves," Mr. Bell said. "People see the redemptions of these funds, so they sell more shares."
One of the more optimistic analysts was Andrew Ballingal, a strategist at Barclays de Zoette Wedd Securities, but even his optimism was tempered.
"We're on the back end of the bear market," he said. "Two years is a normal duration, so I feel it has run its course. The market is basically O.K., but it will probably remain choppy for the next three to six months before there's some real improvement."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Investors' Woes in Tokyo" shows daily close on the Nikkei 225-stock index from 1/91 to 1/91 (Sources: Datastream, Tokyo Stock Market)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (82%); SNE (NYSE) (82%); 6758 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (82%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (66%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (82%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (66%); MERRILL LYNCH JAPAN SECURITIES CO LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); BONDS (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); RECORD REVENUES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); RECORD INDUSTRY (69%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



196 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Mandela Seeks U.S. Backing for Goal

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
In a meeting with President Bush and other Administration officials, Nelson Mandela sought today to convince the United States that establishment of an interim government in South Africa that included representatives of the country's disenfranchised blacks would speed the transition to multiracial democracy.
Mr. Mandela, president of the African National Congress, South Africa's largest black political organization, told reporters after the White House meeting that the lifting of trade sanctions against South Africa should be tied to the installation of a government more representative of the population. Under such a government, he said, a constitutional convention could be called and a new constitution written. 
 Leaders of South Africa's white Government contend that there is no need to change the country's political structure while apartheid is being dismantled and multiracial democracy introduced. Bush Administration officials, while apparently not enthusiastic about the demand for an interim government, say Washington would not want to intrude in what is basically a South African constitutional debate, on any side of the question.
 
De Klerk Called an Obstacle
 At a news conference today, Mr. Mandela called President F.W. de Klerk, who released him from prison and with whom he must negotiate an end to apartheid in politics, "the biggest obstacle to democracy in South Africa." He described the de Klerk Government as "a regime without credibility, without legitimacy."
"There is an overwhelming demand for an interim government," he said.
Mr. Mandela is visiting the United States two weeks before a national convention in South Africa on Dec. 20-21 that is expected to set the stage for negotiations on constitutional changes, and many of his comments on the trip are seen as intended to shore up the position of the African National Congress as it enters the talks.
Mr. Mandela made a point of praising President Bush today for keeping in constant touch with events in South Africa. He characterized his talks at the White House as very friendly and constructive.
 
A Meeting With Baker
 This afternoon Mr. Mandela met with Secretary of State James A. Baker Jr. and with officials at the World Bank. He had lunch with Washington's Mayor, Sharon Pratt Dixon, and met members of the Congressional Black Caucus.
He was asked today what he had told President Bush -- and would tell potential investors -- about the African National Congress policy calling for nationalization of industries. He replied that this policy had been adopted in the 1950's and that the organization was prepared to review it at a conference planned for March 1992. Proposals for policy changes were now circulating, he said.
But he reiterated his belief that in a country where ownership of land, industry and businesses was so unequally distributed, some government intervention was necessary to introduce a modicum of equity. He said that 90 percent of the land was in white hands and that 75 percent of the stocks on the Johannesburg exchange were controlled by four conglomerates.
"How does one address the question of rectifying imbalances like that without state intervention?" he asked."
 
Behind the U.S. Visit
 Mr. Mandela's trip this year, in contrast to his celebratory visit in June 1990, shortly after his release from prison, is largely a low-keyed tour of several American cities to meet business leaders and talk about future investment, once remaining sanctions against South Africa are lifted.
On Monday, he addressed the United Nations General Assembly, where he outlined a proposal to end international sanctions in stages, linked to political developments. On Sunday, he will be the keynote speaker at a meeting of a human rights foundation established in part by Jimmy Carter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; MANDELA, NELSON; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



197 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Football Debts May Force Kiam to Sell Remington

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
Victor Kiam, the man who liked his Remington electric razor so much that he bought the company, has decided it may be time to sell.
Mr. Kiam is exploring the possible sale of Remington Products Inc., the Bridgeport, Conn., razor and appliance maker that he bought in 1979 for $25 million in a leveraged buyout, a bank official said yesterday. 
 Mr. Kiam, chairman, president and television spokesman for Remington, retained the Chase Manhattan Bank in the last two months to explore options for the company, said Steven Rautenberg, a spokesman for the bank.
Mr. Rautenberg said that selling Remington was among several possibilities under review by the mergers department at Chase. "We are looking at several options," he said. "One is an outright buyer, one is a partner, one is some other form of investor and one is for Mr. Kiam to stand pat."
Remington has been put up for sale as Mr. Kiam, a man who won a reputation for business shrewdness because of his success at the company, is struggling with the results of perhaps his worst business deal, the 1988 purchase of the New England Patriots for $85 million. That deal left Mr. Kiam, who turns 65 years old tomorrow, scrambling in the last few months for $38 million.
As part of the Patriots deal, Mr. Kiam agreed to pay Francis Murray, his partner in taking over the Patriots, for his 49 percent stake in the team if Mr. Murray demanded it after three years. Mr. Murray asked for his stake to be purchased, and Mr. Kiam failed to raise the $38 million before two deadlines had passed.
The men have agreed to wait until the end of the football season, but the National Football League has, in effect, already taken over the team. If Mr. Kiam cannot raise the money, he will have to find another buyer for Mr. Murray's minority stake.
The dispute has already resulted in one lawsuit. National Westminster Bank USA sued Mr. Kiam and Mr. Murray, contending that a $13.5 million loan to Mr. Murray, which was due in October, was not paid.
A message left for Mr. Kiam at the headquarters of Remington was not returned last night. Mr. Murray did not return a telephone call to his office last night.
Mr. Kiam's search for cash could not have come at a worse time. After years of improving its business, analysts said, Remington has had a rapid loss of market share in shavers to Norelco, which is the industry leader, as well as to Braun, which only recently entered the market. Analysts have estimated that the company's market share dropped from 40 percent in 1986 to 28 percent last year.
While the privately held company had sales of about $250 million in 1989, analysts have estimated that the company's sales dropped by as much as $50 million by the end of 1990, to about $200 million.
The possibility of a new owner for Remington could harm Bridgeport, a city that has been damaged by the troubles in the manufacturing economy in the Northeast and that tried to file for bankruptcy this year.
Mr. Kiam has prided himself that Remington retained its Connecticut headquarters, even as competitors were transferring much of their manufacturing abroad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC3634 ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES & FANS (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: REMINGTON PRODUCTS INC; NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK (NYC) REMINGTON PRODUCTS INC (91%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (53%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: REMINGTON PRODUCTS INC; NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK (NYC) NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOOTBALL AMERICAN FOOTBALL (87%); SPORTS (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (84%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MERGERS (76%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); MARKET SHARE (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); LITIGATION (62%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT; KIAM, VICTOR; MURRAY, FRANCIS

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



198 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Seven Who Will Manage Bush's 1992 Presidential Campaign

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
Following are the seven people who were named today by President Bush to run his 1992 Presidential campaign:
 
Robert A. Mosbacher
Campaign Chairman
 Secretary of Commerce . . . Charged with coordinating political, fund-raising and operations arms of the campaign as general chairman, but lacks skills to mastermind the race in the fashion of the 1988 campaign chairman, James A. Baker 3d . . . Recently conceded that Republicans face an image problem with the economy, and has pressed the President to move quickly to stimulate growth . . . Among Mr. Bush's most loyal and trusted political advisers . . . Veteran fund-raiser, can tap wealthy establishment where his roots lie . . . was finance chairman for Mr. Bush's 1988 Presidential campaign . . . As Commerce Secretary, Mr. Mosbacher has been active in White House deliberations on domestic economy and in promoting exports . . . 64 years old . . . His ties to Mr. Bush and Mr. Baker go back to Houston oil business in the 1950's . . . Headed family-owned Mosbacher Energy Corporation before coming to Washington.
 
Frederic V. Malek
Campaign Manager
 In his new post Mr. Malek will be chief operating officer, overseeing nuts and bolts of the race . . . Has less political experience than others, but is an experienced manager and enjoys Mr. Bush's trust . . . Masterminded the 1988 Republican National Convention and the economic summit meeting in Houston last year . . . Was deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford . . . Mr. Bush brought him to the Republican National Committee as deputy chairman in 1988 . . . Mr. Malek resigned that September after Federal archives showed that in 1971, at Mr. Nixon's behest, he compiled a rough count of Jewish workers in a Labor Department agency; Mr. Nixon suspected Jews in the Bureau of Labor Statistics were slanting unemployment data to make him look bad . . . Mr. Malek denied being anti-Semitic and has worked assidously to restore his standing with Jewish leaders . . . Vice chairman of NWA Inc. and its major subsidiary, Northwest Airlines . . . Also co-chairman of CB Commercial Real Estate Group and advisor to the Carlyle Group, an investment firm . . . 54 years old.
 
Robert M. Teeter
Chief Political Strategist
 President of an Ann Arbor-based corporate and political consulting firm, Mr. Teeter will operate as the President's thematic orchestrator, responsible for overall tone and direction of the re-election effort . . . He is considered adept at sizing up political moods to design winning campaigns . . . For 20 years he built his reputation as a pollster at Market Opinion Research, the Detroit-based firm . . . Worked for President Nixon in 1972 and President Ford in 1976 . . . In 1980, he worked for Mr. Bush and, after the Republican convention, for Ronald Reagan . . . Senior adviser and chief poll-taker for Mr. Bush in 1988 campaign . . . Opted not to join the Bush Administration, citing family concerns . . . But other accounts suggested that the incoming chief of staff, John H. Sununu, had refused to share responsibilities . . . 52 years old.
 
Charles Black
Senior Campaign Adviser
 A pivotal 1992 strategist, Mr. Black is likely to be the architect of Mr. Bush's campaign in the South . . . Among Mr. Bush's aides, Mr. Black is closest in spirit and political instincts to the late Lee Atwater, who engineered Mr. Bush's slashing 1988 victory . . . Will be the President's liaison to the right wing . . . Knows how to use "wedge issues," issues intended to split Democrats from their party . . . Founding chairman of the National Conservative Political Action Committee . . . Native of North Carolina . . . Political director of Jesse Helms's first Senate campaign in 1972 and advised his 1990 re-election effort . . . Partner in the lobbying firm of Black, Manafort, Stone & Kelly, which became enmeshed in influence-peddling scandal involving Federal public housing grants two years ago.
 
Mary Matalin
Political Director
 Ms. Matalin will run day-to-day state and local campaign operations . . . Knows Republican Party operations and personnel from the state committees to the headquarters . . . An Atwater lieutenant and close friend in the 1988 campaign, she will be counted on to supply a semblance of his political savvy . . . Unlike Mr. Atwater and Mr. Black, not an ideologue . . . Now chief of staff of the Republican National Committee . . . 38 years old . . . A descendant of Croatian grandparents in a campaign dominated by white males . . . Got a taste for politics in a 1980 Illinois Senate race (her candidate lost) . . . Worked in a number of Republican National Committee positions, and was Rich Bond's aide when he was deputy chairman in 1982 . . . In 1988 primaries, was Midwest field director for the Bush campaign . . . In the general election she ran Victory '88, the Republican National Committee's get-out-the-vote operation . . . After the election Mr. Atwater gave her the No. 2 job at party headquarters.
 
Richard N. Bond
Field Organization Chief
 Mr. Bond will be in charge of designing and overseeing state and local operations . . . Called a Long Island version of Lee Atwater, his longtime mentor . . . One of the early Bush advisers, dating to the mid-1970's . . . Made his mark as architect of Mr. Bush's upset in the 1980 Iowa primary . . . Later became his deputy chief of staff when Mr. Bush was Vice President . . . Was political director and deputy manager of the 1988 campaign . . . Very intensepolitical style, but is a tactician, not an ideologue . . . Chairman of Bond Donatelli Inc., a Washington-based corporate consulting firm . . . Got his start as press aide to the Nassau County, L.I., county executive . . . Later was press secretary for Representative Bill Green of New York . . . Crewed during a 1977-78 around-the-world yacht race.
 
George W. Bush
Campaign Adviser
 The President's oldest son and self-appointed loyalty watchdog for past Bush campaigns and for his Administration . . . Has been advising the President on 1992 race for a couple of months . . . From 1986 to 1988 he worked on the Bush Presidential campaign as adviser and speechmaker . . . After 1988 victory he screened job-seekers to insure that jobs went to his father's original believers . . . Ran for Congrss in the 19th Congressional District of Texas in 1978; won the primary but lost the election in a close race . . . Aspires to become governor of Texas, but his mother, Barbara, is said to oppose the notion . . . Nicknamed "Junior" , but takes pains to note his name is not the same as his dad's . . . While his father is a Connecticut Yankee in Texas, George takes prides in being the rough-edged Real Thing . . . Intense, extremely competitive and sometimes hot-tempered . . . Managing general partner of the Texas Rangers baseball team . . . Like his father, went into the Texas oil business as a young man . . . Business foundered in oil glut of 1980's and was sold to Texas-based Harken Energy Corporation . . . 45 years old.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (52%); CG (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (64%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (63%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NWA INC (64%); CB COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE GROUP INC (63%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (52%); MORPACE INC (51%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); BONDS (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); STATISTICS (63%); AIRLINES (61%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MOSBACHER, ROBERT A (SEC); MALEK, FREDERIK V; TEETER, ROBERT M; BLACK, CHARLES; MATALIN, MARY; BOND, RICHARD N; BUSH, GEORGE W GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD L BOND (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



199 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Seen as Controlling A-Arms

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
The shriveling central Soviet Government holds firm control over its 27,000 nuclear weapons, Pentagon officials said this week, but the former republics are pressing for a greater say in the fate of the weapons on their soil.
The Soviet authorities are said to be in early discussions with Ukraine to give the newly independent republic greater control over the 4,000 nuclear weapons on its territory. Ukraine, which has pledged to create a nuclear-free state, has called for the republics with strategic nuclear weapons to form a collective military command to control and eventually destroy them. 
 The Bush Administration's decision to send Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d to Kiev this month to discuss Washington's concerns reflects the priority that the United States places on keeping tight control over the Soviet nuclear arsenal as more republics break free.
The Soviet Union has about 12,000 long-range nuclear weapons in missile silos and submarines and aboard planes as well as 15,000 shorter-range tactical weapons, including artillery shells, gravity bombs and ship-based weapons.
 
Security of Weapons
 Paramount to American interests, senior Administration officials say, is averting economic and social turmoil that could lead terrorists, thieves or warring armies to seize the weapons now under heavy security. On his trip to Ukraine, Mr. Baker and another American envoy, Assistant Secretary of State Thomas M. T. Niles, will also seek assurances that Kiev intends to honor international arms control agreements signed by Moscow.
"The most important thing is for the republics to achieve a peaceful separation," a senior Defense Department official said. "If the situation degenerates into the kind of civil war you have in Yugoslavia, no amount of good will will withstand that kind of battering."
Administration officials said Defense Secretary Dick Cheney was a leading advocate of the Administration's decision to move toward recognition of Ukraine's independence, which was opposed by the Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
Since the failed coup in August, Mr. Cheney and senior American military officers have expressed confidence in Soviet control over long-range, or strategic, missiles, and the more mobile tactical, or battlefield, nuclear arms.
 
Confidence in Safeguards
 Elite Russian-dominated military forces guard nuclear weapon depots. Warheads are typically stored miles from their launchers or aircraft and are secured by coded locks. Senior Pentagon officials said this week that American intelligence had detected no significant weakening in these safeguards.
There are strategic nuclear weapons in Ukraine, Russia, Byelorussia and Kazakhstan and tactical nuclear weapons in all 12 republics, most of which have declared independence in some form. Ukraine has about 15 percent of the Soviet nuclear weapons, including 46 SS-24 long-range missiles that each carry 10 warheads and 130 older SS-19 missiles that have six warheads each, according to Bruce G. Blair, a specialist in Soviet nuclear control procedures at the Brookings Institution.
Other American experts estimate that Ukraine has 2,500 to 3,000 tactical nuclear weapons, including artillery shells, gravity bombs and ship-based weapons.
The Administration has taken several steps since the failed coup to encourage a rapid reduction in Soviet nuclear forces. President Bush announced a unilateral initiative in September to dismantle all American tactical nuclear weapons on land and at sea, a decision that prompted a similar order from Mr. Gorbachev for Soviet tactical weapons.
Soviet and republic leaders have met with senior State Department and Defense Department officials in recent days to discuss the American and Soviet arms proposals and ways to build on them.
Last week, Congress approved a measure to spend up to $400 million to assist the Soviet Union and the republics in dismantling and destroying their nuclear weapons. The Ukrainian Foreign Minister, Anatoly Zlenko, told a news conference in Kiev this week that his fledging country was interested in taking up the American offer.
Senator Richard G. Lugar, an Indiana Republican who is the main sponsor of the Soviet aid proposal, along with Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia, said, "Right now, there's an eagerness to move to destroy these tactical nuclear weapons in the former republics, but the concern is that eagerness might not last forever."
 
Transferring Arms
 Ukrainian leaders have expressed a willingness to transfer tactical and possibly even older-model strategic weapons to the Russia republic, which has the capability to dispose them, American arms control experts said. But Kiev has taken an increasingly firm stance on retaining some control over the more modern SS-24 missiles, prompting some independent analysts to speculate that Ukraine wants to use the weapons as bargaining chips with Moscow and the West.
"The United States wants above all to see safe, secure and reliable control over nuclear weapons," the Pentagon spokesman, Pete Williams, said this week. "It is for the republics and the central authority to work out the arrangements and exactly how that will be accomplished. We certainly don't want to see a proliferation of centers of control over nuclear weapons."
In Brussels this week, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization urged Ukraine to renounce nuclear weapons, abide by all the Soviet Union's international commitments and define its relations with Moscow and other republics peacefully.
 
Sharing Control
 Mr. Blair of the Brookings Institution said reports from Kiev indicated that Ukrainian leaders had been meeting quietly with Soviet officials on sharing control over strategic nuclear weapons on Ukrainian territory. He said these talks would continue through next year on guaranteeing that Moscow would consult Kiev before firing strategic nuclear weapons. In a second phase of the agreement, to be carried out from 1993 to 1995, Moscow would need approval from Ukrainian leaders to launch a missile.
Scientists at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Havard University have suggested that tactical nuclear weapons stored at 15 depots be moved to four central sites, where the weapons would be tagged, identified and eventually dismantled with American assistance.

GRAPHIC: Map/Graph: "Nuclear Warheads: Where They Are Positioned" shows estimated nuclear warheads in each republic in 1990.
 
Tadzhikistan: 75
Kirghizia: 75
Moldavia: 90
Uzbekistan: 105
Turkmenia: 125
Latvia *: 185
Armenia: 200
Estonia *: 270
Azerbaijan: 300
Georgia: 320
Lithuania *: 325
Byelorussia: 1,250
Kazakhstan: 1,800
Ukraine: 4,000
Russia: 19,000
 
* Before independence
 
 (Source: Natural Resources Defense Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BELARUS (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARMENIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); 

COMPANY: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UKRAINE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BELARUS (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARMENIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); COUPS (73%); TERRORISM (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC DICK CHENEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991



200 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Man In the News: Samuel Knox Skinner;
A Model of a Competent and Wily Team Player

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
In picking Samuel K. Skinner as his chief of staff today, President Bush went for the member of his Cabinet with the clearest record of domestic successes and a degree of political savvy that won tributes even from Democrats in the hard-bitten world of Chicago politics.
But the very characteristics that make him popular among moderate Republicans, his reputed pragmatism and disdain for ideological inflexibility, have sometimes cost him support among White House aides. Some of his proposals as Transportation Secretary were mercilessly picked apart by the man he is replacing, John H. Sununu, as well as Richard G. Darman, director of the Office of Management and Budget. 
 Mr. Skinner's informal and assertive style hardly resembles Mr. Sununu's, which is usually described as abrasive and combative.
It remains to be seen how Mr. Skinner will navigate among the President's other powerful aides, including Mr. Darman and the White House counsel, C. Boyden Gray, who have largely controlled the Administration's domestic policy.
 
Aides Have High Expectations
 A close aide to Mr. Skinner at the Transportation Department, Deputy Secretary James B. Busey, said his style would fare well at the White House. "He creates an atmosphere where everyone feels free to put their own ideas on the table without fear of appearing ridiculous or being put down," Mr. Busey said.
Mr. Skinner's political skills will quickly be tested in the 1992 Presidential race, with Mr. Bush under fire from Democrats about the stagnant economy and other domestic issues and facing primary challenges on the Republican right.
On issues where Mr. Skinner has wielded influence so far, he is a mainstream Republican. He emphasizes state and local governments and private investors over the Federal Government, believes strongly in unregulated competition and is willing to let weak businesses fail.
As Secretary of Transportation for three years, Mr. Skinner ushered a major shift in national transportation policy into law that saw airlines fail. As an adviser to Mr. Bush, he protested sharply and helped to kill a proposal last month for a major shift in civil rights policy that was circulated by White House aides but proved embarrassing to the Administration.
 
Prosecuted Otto Kerner
 As an Assistant United States Attorney and United States Attorney in the 1970's he helped jail many Democrats for corruption, including Otto Kerner, a former governor who was on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Mr. Kerner was convicted in what many called a brilliant prosecution.
Mr. Skinner is viewed as tough on crime, although his reputation stems mainly from his role in prosecuting such corruption and organized crime, rather than the individual violence that causes fear among the electorate.
In office, he has worked effectively with Democrats.
William Daley, a Chicago lawyer who is the brother of Mayor Richard M. Daley, praised Mr. Skinner's credentials and said his appointment would present a tough political challenge to the Democrats.
Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, a liberal Ohio Democrat who sparred with Mr. Skinner during his confirmation hearings and is now holding up Senate approval of Jerry R. Curry as Mr. Skinner's choice to lead the Federal Aviation Administration, said, "He is a straight-talking individual, whether he agrees with you or not."
 
An 'Organization Man'
 Republican political workers also had warm words.
Charles Black, a top Republican adviser who was named today as a senior adviser to Mr. Bush's 1992 campaign, said "he's very savvy" on campaign matters but that his principal strength is his managerial skill. "He'll get the team pulling in whatever direction the President wants," he said.
Mr. Black also said that Mr. Skinner would listen to other staff members. He added: "Sam does not have a big ego. He wants to get the job done."
Transportation experts said these characteristics helped pass the highway bill, one of the few legislative accomplishments of the year. While the $151 billion measure diverged in important ways from the Administration's year-old proposal, it has been seized on by the White House as the centerpiece of its job-creation effort now that the Presidential campaign is under way.
 
Seen as Up-and-Comer
 For years the 53-year-old Mr. Skinner has been touted around town as an up-and-comer, a likely candidate to replace either of two troubled Bush aides: Dick Thornburgh, the former Attorney General, or Mr. Sununu.
Time and again, he sloughed off reporters' questions about his ambitions with the most politic of demurrals. He had a wonderful job, he said, and was too busy even to contemplate a change, but of course he would do whatever President Bush ever requested.
Samuel Knox Skinner was born in Chicago on June 10, 1938 to Vernon Orlo Skinner and Imelda Jane Skinner. He grew up in Illinois and graduated with an accounting major from the University of Illinois in 1960 before serving as a lieutenant in the Army and then working for I.B.M. as an award-winning salesman. He took part in the Goldwater Presidential campaign and took evening classes at DePaul University, where he got his law degree.
He first worked for George Bush in 1980, during his disastrous defeat in the Illinois primary. In 1988, he was the statewide manager of Mr. Bush's landslide victory there.
He had been Assistant United States Attorney under James Thompson, who was later Governor, and then succeeded him as United States Attorney from 1975 to 1977.
Criticism at the time centered on his easy adoption into Chicago's old boy network. His law firm won lucrative contracts handling insolvent insurance companies, and it was reported by The Chicago Sun-Times that the work was handed out on the basis of personal connections, although no misconduct was ever demonstrated.
He came to the job of Transportation Secretary promising a broad strategy that would coordinate air, rail, road and mass transit and maritime affairs in a way never before seen. The idea ran into considerable resistance from Mr. Sununu and Mr. Darman, who viewed it as unacceptable social engineering.
Nonetheless, with allies in both parties in Congress, Mr. Skinner helped in 1990 to win enactment of what has been called the most important aviation legislation since deregulation.
 
'Master of Disaster'
 Mr. Skinner repeatedly stepped in to help Mr. Bush with unforeseen emergencies that sometimes involvinged transportation issues only tangentially, including rallying the Federal response after a hurricane struck the Southeast in 1989 and helping coordinate the Federal response to the San Francisco earthquake. His role may have been more symbolic than substantive, but the imagery at the sites of natural disaster was exactly what the White House wanted: competence, composure and compassion.
He helped supervise the cleanup of the Exxon Valdez oil spill, and later it was Mr. Skinner, not the Attorney General, who played an instrumental role in negotiating the legal settlement that set the Federal penalties against Exxon.
His accomplishments in these incidents earned him the sobriquet "Master of Disaster," and as Mr. Sununu was seen increasingly as a blossoming political disaster this year, Mr. Skinner's name again came to the fore.
If Mr. Skinner was sometimes overruled in the inner sanctums of the White House, he never became bitter, said Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, a New York Republican who is deeply involved with transportation issues.
"He always handled the rejection even of those programs that he had invested in personnally," Mr. D'Amato said. "He has been the loyal field commander."
At the Department of Transportation, Mr. Skinner developed a reputation as a demanding boss but not a martinet. He chose aides whom he considered talented, and gave them considerable responsibility.
Although some of his staff members had political connections, he drew from several realms. Mr. Busey, with whom Mr. Skinner worked especially closely, is a retired admiral; Jeffrey Shane, in charge of international affairs, is a career bureaucrat with experience at the Transportation and State Departments. Both his press secretaries, David Prosperi and later Marion Blakey, had White House experience. His deputy until recently was Elaine Chao, a relatively unknown bureaucrat who became head of the Peace Corps.
Some may end up at the White House. Apart from Ms. Blakey and Mr. Shane, names in circulation include his special assistant Cameron Findlay, his chief of staff John Gaughan, and Kenneth Quinn, the general counsel for the Federal Aviation Administration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samuel K. Skinner, who yesterday was named the new White House chief of staff, talking with John H. Sununu, the current chief of staff, at the White House after the appointment was announced. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAWYERS (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNORS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BUDGETS (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (67%); AIRLINES (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); CORRUPTION (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: SKINNER, SAMUEL K (SEC); SUNUNU, JOHN H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN SUNUNU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1991

 
