

1 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices in January Fell by a Record Amount

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
It may be spring on the calendar but housing prices are locked into perpetual winter.
The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller Home Price Index, a widely watched measure of 20 metropolitan areas, fell 19 percent in January from a year earlier. That was a record drop, slightly edging out the previous month.
Prices in the worst-hit metropolitan areas have now fallen nearly by half. None of the cities showed month-to-month improvements. Thirteen showed record annual rates of decline. 
''There's no daylight that I can see in this report,'' said David Blitzer, chairman of S.& P.'s index committee.
He cited the numbers for Phoenix as ''gruesome.'' Prices there fell 5.5 percent in one month, and are now down 48.5 percent from their June 2006 peak.
Las Vegas, Miami, San Francisco and San Diego are not far behind. All have fallen more than 40 percent. The best performing city in the index is Dallas, down a mere 10.8 percent from its peak. Unlike the rest of the Sun Belt and the coasts, Dallas never had a boom, so it did not have as far to fall.
Here is what passes for good news in the latest report: in a handful of cities, including Minneapolis, New York and Charlotte, N.C., the rate of decline in January slowed a little from the rate of decline in December.
The index is now at 146.40, its lowest point since September 2003. The peak was 206.52 in July 2006. The prices are calibrated to a January 2000 level of 100.
Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR Inc., said in a research note that ''it is unlikely that we are anywhere near a bottom in nationwide home prices.'' He estimated the index was perhaps two-thirds of the way through its ultimate total decline.
That would take big-city prices back to where they were in late 2001 or early 2002 and would probably encourage another round of owners to surrender their underwater homes to lenders.
The monthly Case-Shiller report, widely considered one of the most authoritative gauges of home prices, focuses on major cities, which happen to be the places where the boom was most frenzied. Even in those communities, realty agents argue that the report does not give a full picture of a market that can vary by neighborhood and price level.
Changes in housing prices traditionally lag behind changes in sales volume, and volume has been showing an uptick lately in some places. Much of the sales activity in the Sun Belt is coming from foreclosure sales by banks, not traditional sales by homeowners. Prices in these areas will not begin to recover until the foreclosures end.
Jim Klinge, a prominent San Diego agent, said the collapse in prices had greatly increased sales volume. ''There's a group of buyers that need housing more than they need to pay attention to the doom-and-gloom headlines we see every single day,'' he said.
One of them is Larry Salzman, a lawyer turned Internet entrepreneur who is seeking to buy a townhouse in El Cajon, Calif., after renting for several years. He is paying $240,000, which will shrink his monthly housing costs by a few hundred dollars.
Mr. Salzman would have liked a bigger, nicer place, but higher-end houses have not declined as much as cheaper ones.
Mr. Klinge said his client was not unique. Above $500,000, the market is still dead. ''All the higher-end sellers are holding out for top prices, thinking things are going to get better sooner or later,'' the agent said.
For a brief time during the last few weeks, it seemed that moment might be sooner.
The National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned homes rose 5.1 percent in February, while the Census Bureau said sales of new one-family homes in the month increased 4.7 percent above the revised January rate. The Realtors association also said that the median home price in February was $165,400, slightly better than January's $164,800.
Since the Case-Shiller numbers cover an earlier period, ''it is possible that the market hit bottom in January and is starting to improve,'' an IHS Global Insight analyst, Patrick Newport, wrote in a report.
Possible but not likely, he decided, concluding that the bottom would not come until next year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shellie Young, center, a real estate agent, showed a house last week to prospective buyers in Miami, one of the metropolitan areas where a monthly home index shows prices falling the fastest.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Bottom Getting Deeper: Home prices in 20 cities fell a record 19 percent in January from last year. Some cities, like Dallas, fared better than the average. Phoenix had the steepest drop in the home price index.(Source: Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller Home Price Index) Charts details line graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011



2 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Netanyahu Offers Conciliation, but Not Concessions

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Taking over as Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu struck a somewhat conciliatory tone toward the Palestinians in an address Tuesday to Parliament, promising negotiations toward a permanent accord.
But Mr. Netanyahu, the leader of the hawkish Likud Party, stopped short of endorsing a two-state solution for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, a potential point of friction with the United States.
President Obama has called the advancement of the two-state solution ''critical.'' Mr. Netanyahu opposes the idea of a sovereign Palestinian state, proposing a more limited form of self-rule instead. 
Hours before he was sworn in, Mr. Netanyahu said his new government would ''work toward peace on three tracks: economic, security and political.''
''We do not want to exercise our power over the Palestinians,'' he said. ''Under the final settlement, the Palestinians will have all the rights to govern themselves except those that endanger the security and existence of the state of Israel.''
Mr. Netanyahu said his government would seek peace with the Arab and Muslim world. He also spoke of the dangers of extremist Islam. ''The biggest threat to humanity and to Israel comes from the possibility of a radical regime armed with nuclear weapons,'' he said, alluding to Iran.
Mr. Netanyahu's governing coalition is dominated by right-wing and religious parties, but it also includes the Labor Party, which represents the center-left. Mr. Netanyahu replaces Ehud Olmert, whose centrist Kadima Party will now lead the opposition.
In the 120-seat Parliament, 69 lawmakers voted for the new government late Tuesday; 45 voted against it. Five Labor members who had opposed joining the coalition abstained, and one Arab lawmaker was absent.
Mr. Netanyahu, 59, who is Israeli-born but earned a bachelor's degree at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has a rich past in Israeli politics. He was prime minister from 1996 until 1999, when his government fell apart after he reluctantly forged agreements with Yasir Arafat for Israeli land transfers in the West Bank.
Ehud Barak, the leader of the Labor Party, will remain defense minister in the new government. The appointment as foreign minister of Avigdor Lieberman, an outspoken politician and the leader of the nationalist Yisrael Beiteinu Party, has alarmed many abroad. Mr. Lieberman is best known for his contentious policies -- and at times insulting remarks -- toward Arabs.
In Israel, however, public criticism has focused on the sheer size of the new cabinet, swelled by Mr. Netanyahu's attempts to satisfy his coalition partners' competing demands. With 30 ministers and at least 7 deputy ministers, the cabinet has grown into the largest in Israel's history, prompting charges that it will prove unmanageable and constitute a waste of public funds during a recession.
In 1996, Mr. Netanyahu prided himself on his establishment of a lean cabinet, with 18 ministers. The government established by Mr. Olmert in May 2006 had 25.
In her first speech as chairwoman of the opposition, Tzipi Livni, the leader of Kadima and former foreign minister, described Mr. Netanyahu's government as ''bloated'' and stuffed with ''ministers of nothing.''
Of more pressing international concern is the future of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. The result of Israel's February elections was a marked shift to the right, injecting a degree of uncertainty over the future of this round of talks, which began at an American-sponsored conference in Annapolis, Md., in November 2007.
Mr. Netanyahu said Tuesday that his government would support a ''Palestinian security apparatus that will fight terrorism'' -- apparently a reference to the forces being trained in an American-backed program under the Annapolis framework.
Mr. Netanyahu has so far emphasized his plans for economic development in the West Bank. His refusal to endorse the two-state solution has led to skepticism and despondency on the Palestinian side, exacerbated by fears that his government will expedite Jewish settlement expansion in the West Bank.
Khalil Shikaki, a prominent Palestinian political analyst, said economic development would not provide any guarantee against a future eruption of Palestinian violence. Briefing reporters in Jerusalem on Monday, Mr. Shikaki noted that the last two intifadas, or uprisings, broke out in 1987 and 2000 when economic conditions in the Palestinian territories were relatively good.
Palestinian politics are also complicated and in flux, with Hamas, the Islamic militant group, governing Gaza and the control of the president of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, confined to the West Bank. Mr. Abbas's mainstream Fatah movement was expected to start new reconciliation talks with Hamas in Cairo on Wednesday. A previous round ended without results.
Meanwhile, not all Israelis accept the gloomy forecasts of strained relations with Washington.
''As long as Hamas is in power in Gaza, we are off the hook,'' said Efraim Inbar, a professor of political science at Bar-Ilan University. Under these circumstances, ''nobody can really pressure Israel to do anything,'' he said in a telephone interview.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The departing Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, left, and his successor, Benjamin Netanyahu, in Parliament on Tuesday at the start of a swearing-in ceremony for the new government.(POOL PHOTO BY DAVID SILVERMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HISTORY (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RELIGION (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (53%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (93%); EHUD OLMERT (79%); EHUD BARAK (78%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011



3 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Cynicism We Can Believe In

BYLINE: By SIMON CRITCHLEY. 
Simon Critchley, the chairman of the philosophy department at the New School, is the author of ''The Book of Dead Philosophers.''

 BODY:
SOME 2,300 years after his death, Diogenes the Cynic dramatically interrupted a recent New York State Senate committee meeting. Wearing a long, white beard and carrying his trademark lamp in broad daylight, the ancient philosopher -- who once described himself as ''a Socrates gone mad'' -- claimed to be looking for an honest man in politics. Considering the never-ending allegations of financial corruption that flow from the sump of Albany, it's no surprise that he was unsuccessful.
 This resurrected Diogenes was, in fact, Randy Credico, a comedian who says he is considering challenging Senator Charles Schumer in the 2010 Democratic primary. Whatever boost Mr. Credico's prank provides his campaign, it might also cause us to reflect a little on the meaning of cynicism -- and how greatly we still need Diogenes. 
 Cynicism is actually not at all cynical in the modern sense of the word. It bears no real resemblance to that attitude of negativity and jaded scornfulness that sees the worst of intentions behind the apparent good motives of others.
 True cynicism is not a debasement of others but a debasement of oneself -- and in that purposeful self-debasement, a protest against corruption, luxury and insincerity. Diogenes, the story goes, was called a ''downright dog,'' and this so pleased him that the figure of a dog was carved in stone to mark his final resting place. From that epithet, kunikos (''dog-like''), cynicism was born. 
 Diogenes credited his teacher Antisthenes with introducing him to a life of poverty and happiness -- of poverty as happiness. The cynic's every word and action was dedicated to the belief that the path to individual freedom required absolute honesty and complete material austerity. 
 So Diogenes threw away his cup when he saw people drinking from their hands. He lived in a barrel, rolling in it over hot sand in the summer. He inured himself to cold by embracing statues blanketed with snow. He ate raw squid to avoid the trouble of cooking. He mocked the auctioneer while being sold into slavery. 
 When asked by Lysias the pharmacist if he believed in the gods, he replied, ''How can I help believing in them when I see a god-forsaken wretch like you?'' When he was asked what was the right time to marry, he said, ''For a young man not yet, for an old man never at all.'' When asked what was the most beautiful thing in the world, Diogenes replied, ''Freedom of speech.'' Sadly, it remains one of the most dangerous.
 And when asked where he came from, this native of Sinope, in what is now Turkey, replied that he was a ''citizen of the world,'' or kosmopolites. If only today's self-styled cosmopolitans drank water from their hands, hugged statues and lived in barrels, one might ponder. Truth be told, Diogenes' ''cosmopolitanism'' is much more of an anti-political stance than the sort of banal internationalism that people associate with the word today. 
 Cynicism is basically a moral protest against hypocrisy and cant in politics and excess and thoughtless self-indulgence in the conduct of life. In a world like ours, which is slowly trying to rouse itself from the dogmatic slumbers of boundless self-interest, corruption, lazy cronyism and greed, it is Diogenes' lamp that we need to light our path. Perhaps this recession will make cynics of us all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); SLAVERY (64%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



4 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Rents in Manhattan's Less Glossy Office Buildings Are Getting Cheaper

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
During the recent economic boom, rents in the priciest Manhattan office towers skyrocketed. A similar trend occurred in the city's less well-heeled office buildings, known in real estate jargon as Class B buildings. But today, vacancies are rising and rents are falling sharply in both classes of buildings, especially in Midtown.
 ''I think the general feeling was that Class A was going to get hit'' because the economic decline was ''first and foremost, a financial industry problem,'' and that industry tends to favor Class A buildings, said Robert L. Sammons, the managing director in charge of research at Colliers ABR. So he was surprised to notice that Class B rents were swooning just as hard -- or harder. 
 Asking rents for both classes of buildings in Midtown Manhattan almost doubled during the five years from the beginning of 2003 to their peak in early 2008. Then, in the last year, average annual asking rents for Class A office space in Midtown fell 19.1 percent, to reach $76.54 per square foot by the end of February. In the same period, average asking rents for Class B office space in Midtown fell 23.4 percent, to reach $48.74 a square foot a year, according to Colliers ABR.
 Mr. Sammons said that many Class B buildings were also occupied by financial companies, often for ''back office'' functions like accounting and human resources.
 He pointed to two large Class B blocks that were on the market. He said Wells Fargo had notified the landlord that it would give up a lease expiring at the end of this year for 62,000 square feet in 119 West 40th Street, between the Avenue of the Americas and Broadway. The landlord, George Comfort & Sons, has begun offering this space for direct lease, but has not set an asking rent.
 Farther west, at 333 West 34th Street, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, Citigroup has been trying to extricate itself from a lease that expires at year-end for the entire 350,000-square-foot building. SL Green, a large real estate investment trust, purchased the building from Citigroup in a sale-leaseback deal in 2007. 
 SL Green, which is marketing the space directly to potential tenants, has leased all of the second through fourth floors and part of the fifth, totaling 156,000 square feet, to the Segal Company, a human resources consulting firm. The space on the remaining floors, from the fifth to the 10th floors, is still available.
 In general, Class B buildings are older, with smaller floor areas than Class A buildings, but the definitions are not rigid. Class B space can be in new buildings in nonprime sites or in old buildings in prime locations. Space can even be classified as Class C, but there is not much of that in the major Manhattan office markets, especially not in Midtown.
 Manhattan has more than twice as many Class B buildings as Class A buildings, but the amount of Class A space is approximately 50 percent greater because the buildings tend to be much larger. That is especially true in Midtown, which has 163 million square feet of Class A space and 71 million square feet of Class B, according to Colliers.
 By now, the economic pain in Class B buildings is not limited to those with a lot of financial tenants. As the recession drags on, it is hurting many industries that dominate Class B office space in Manhattan -- including advertising and media companies, law firms and accounting firms.
 ''Large institutions prefer Class A space, but a lot of media companies prefer Class B space because it's cooler,'' said Andrew Peretz, an executive vice president at Cushman & Wakefield.
 Further pressure could come if some tenants in Class B buildings decide to trade up to Class A buildings as they become more affordable. But brokers say this is not happening as much as they would generally expect by this point in a recession, apparently because many tenants are uncertain about what their space needs will be a year or two from now.
 ''This is the first time that I have seen a downturn that is so deep in the tenants' psychology,'' said Mr. Peretz, who represents many buildings for landlords in Midtown South and downtown office submarkets.
 But Matt Barlow, an executive vice president at Studley, a brokerage firm that specializes in representing office tenants, said good deals were available for tenants in Class B office buildings who were willing to sublet space in Class A buildings. ''It used to be that staying put was deemed to be the low-cost alternative,'' Mr. Barlow said. ''But in this environment, where there is an abundance of prebuilt space, that is changing the natural equation.'' Moving into a space previously occupied by another tenant can sometimes save a new tenant the expense of finishing off and decorating the area.
 The overall vacancy rate -- covering sublet space as well as space that is available directly from landlords -- has widened more for Class A buildings in Midtown than for Class B. But that is primarily because the market was very tight for the most sought-after space one year ago. The vacancy rate for Class A space in Midtown has jumped to 11.3 percent, from 6.4 percent at this time last year. The vacancy rate for Class B space in Midtown has risen to 14 percent, from 9.9 percent, Colliers ABR reported.
 R. Stuart Gross, an executive managing director at Eastern Consolidated, a real estate investment services company in New York, pointed out that some owners had purchased Class B buildings in recent years at very rich prices with the intention of converting them to residential condominiums or limited-service hotels. When the economy was flush, some of these landlords began emptying out these buildings as the tenants' leases expired. Now the owners are unable or unwilling to proceed with the conversions, and they are left with empty space on their hands. 
 ''Because of the slowdown in the condominium marketplace, there is very little financing to convert office to residential now,'' Mr. Gross said. ''So a lot of these will remain office buildings.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two buildings -- 333 West 34th Street, left, and 119 West 40th Street -- where landlords have office space opening up.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (64%); HUMAN RESOURCES (64%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); SEGAL CO (62%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



5 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Planning a Retirement Without Dividends

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Many retirees have certain ideas about how they will occupy their days and how they will pay for it. Dividends are often a part of those plans.
 But relying solely on regular checks from dividend-paying stocks or funds for retirement income is an outdated strategy, with little chance of supporting someone for, say, 30-years. This would be the case, even if dividends were not been disappearing at a record pace (as they have in recent months).
 For one thing, relying on dividend payers will probably result in a portfolio that's too concentrated in areas like financial stocks, which paid the most in dividends until recently. Financial companies accounted for more than 30 percent of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index's dividend income in 2007, but now account for just 10.6 percent.
 Overall, constituents of the S. & P. cut nearly $42 billion in quarterly dividends this year, or 16.9 percent of 2008 payouts. That unprecedented decline followed another, of $15.9 billion, in the fourth quarter. ''You are going to see significantly worse numbers this year, and there's more bad news in the pike,'' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.&P. 
 Even more disconcerting, especially for retirees, is that the cuts have come from many stocks that were once viewed as blue-chip stalwarts: General Electric, Bank of America, J.P. Morgan. And not only have many of these companies cut their dividends, but their stock prices have also dwindled. So retirees who were relying on the stocks for income may be forced to sell at the worst possible time. 
 ''There is extreme danger in counting on a dividend strategy right now,'' said Joel Framson, a financial adviser in Los Angeles. ''In fact, too many of the decimated portfolios we are seeing in our new clients were caused by people thinking they could capture high dividend yields without taking risk.''
 Of course, in these unpredictable times, there are no easy answers. Even the most diversified portfolios have taken devastating hits. But there are ways to structure your retirement portfolio so that you won't be forced to sell investments at the most inopportune moments, as well as ways to create a paycheck, of sorts, in retirement. 
 TOTAL RETURN First, instead of focusing solely on dividend-paying investments, financial planners said that retirees should look at a retirement portfolio holistically. In financial adviser speak, this is known as a total return strategy, which includes drawing upon a collection of dividends, interest and capital gains (when they eventually return). You should devise an asset allocation based on your time horizon and tolerance for risk, among other factors. And all diversified portfolios will see the benefits of dividends -- historically, they've accounted for more than 40 percent of stock market returns over the long haul. 
 In retirement, you withdraw a set amount of money from your portfolio each year, typically around 4 percent, and increase the dollar amount withdrawn each year to adjust for inflation. To ride out these tough economic times, many planners advise forgoing the inflation adjustment, or even withdrawing less. This is especially true for people who are still in the early years of their retirement and worried about outliving their savings.
 FIVE-YEAR PLAN In the current environment, this strategy stands out. In the 1980s, Harold Evensky, president of Evensky & Katz Wealth Management, came up with what he calls a five-year mantra. Mr. Evensky believes you should not invest any of the money you'll need in the next five years -- whether it's for living expenses or a large purchase or another anticipated expense. 
 Take a couple with a $750,000 retirement portfolio who needs $30,000 a year. Using Mr. Evensky's strategy, they would set up three separate accounts. The first account would hold two years of expenses, or $60,000. About half of that money would be in a money-market account, while the balance would be in a short-term, high-quality bond fund (like the Vanguard Short-Term Bond Index). Each month, $2,500 ($30,000 divided by 12 months) would be automatically transferred from the money market fund into a second account -- a local checking account -- to pay their expenses.
 ''Knowing where their grocery money is coming from makes it a little easier,'' Mr. Evensky said. ''When things get bad, they will know they can look at it, they can touch it and they know they haven't lost a penny.'' 
 The third account, the investment portfolio, would hold the remaining $690,000. This money would be diversified among stocks, bonds and other asset classes based on the couple's stomach for risk, age and overall goals. But part of the allocation would include at least three years of expenses in short-term bonds. If there isn't a good time to replenish the cash account, the couple can tap the short-term bonds (that way, they don't have to sell their investments when the markets are down). Otherwise, the cash account can be replenished through rebalancing the investment portfolio.
 Mr. Evensky said he tested how this method might work during a period similar to the 1970s, when both stocks and bonds were decimated and inflation was rampant. His portfolio lasted 24 years, whereas a portfolio invested in 50 percent stocks and 50 percent bonds ran out of money after 20 years, and an all-bond portfolio ran dry after 12 years. 
 IMMEDIATE ANNUITIES With this type of annuity, you give a pile of money to an insurance company, and it provides you with a paycheck until you die. For a 65-year-old male, the payout rate is about 8 percent. So for every $100,000 that man purchases, he will receive $8,000 annually, according to New York Life. Women receive slightly less because they live longer. The payout will be less if you choose to adjust your payments for inflation. Of course, you need to choose an insurer carefully -- especially now.
 ''The promise to pay lifetime income is only as good as the insurance company can deliver,'' said Karin Maloney Stifler, a certified financial planner in Hudson, Ohio. ''Investors must realize that annuities entail credit or default risk by the insurer.''
 You can spread your risk by buying a few annuities from a few top-rated insurers and only buy up to the amount that the state regulator will insure in the event of a default. Ms. Stifler said that $100,000 is typical. The big downside with annuities, of course, is that you cannot get your money back. And if you die shortly after you buy the annuity, your heirs will get nothing. 
 How much annuity do you need? Generally, you shouldn't put all your nest egg into an annuity. One approach is to tally up your essential living expenses (housing, health care, groceries, etc). Then, figure out how much reliable income you have from Social Security, for instance, or a pension. If there's a gap between the two, it may make sense to purchase an annuity to fund the difference, Ms. Stifler said.
 PAYOUT FUNDS These mutual funds, which are intended to provide retirees with an income stream during retirement, have only hit the market in the past 18 months or so. There are generally two types of funds, though they're all generally funds that invest in other funds. The first type operates much like a university endowment: it aims to generate a stable income stream -- say, 3 or 5 percent -- while either preserving or increasing the initial investment. Vanguard and Schwab offer funds in this mold. The second type of payout fund also aims to generate income, but only until a specified date in the future, when the remaining money, if any, is completely distributed. The Fidelity Income Replacement Funds use this methodology. 
 But when a fund performs poorly, the income generated will also fall. In some cases, the funds will begin to return your principal. That's why some experts say these funds will more likely be used to cover discretionary expenses. Given the complexity of these funds, you really need to understand them fully -- and the supporting role they should play in your portfolio -- before jumping in.
 ''They are all interesting approaches, but they are unproven,'' said Dan Culloton, associate director of fund analysis at Morningstar Inc. ''You can lose money, and people have thus far. But they are an interesting proposal for someone who wants to turn their nest eggs into a stream of payments and have some control over the assets and the ability to take money out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); DIVIDENDS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



6 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: 'Euros for Clunkers' Drives Sales

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Maia de la Baume contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: BRATISLAVA, Slovakia 

 BODY:
The economy here may be in free fall, but anxiety about the future did not stop Vilo Hrivnak from driving his 12-year-old green hatchback to the junkyard a few days ago and promptly buying his first new car, a cappuccino-colored Skoda. 
 Like hundreds of thousands of car owners across Europe, Mr. Hrivnak was spurred to act by new government subsidies for drivers who junk their old jalopies -- in his case 2,000 euros, or $2,655 -- and trade up to a new model. 
 Slovakia is one of a nearly dozen European countries to unveil a so-called cash for clunkers plan in recent months, but the idea could soon get its biggest test yet in the United States, where President Obama endorsed a similar approach Monday to help beleaguered Detroit automakers.
 The details and the size of the refund, typically 1,000 to 2,500 euros, vary from country to country and often reward the purchase of smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 The plan has exceeded expectations. Car sales are now running at an annual rate of more than 13 million because of the subsidies, according to Stuart Pearson of Credit Suisse, well above the 11 million level where they started the year. 
 ''It seems like an obvious thing to do in the U.S.,'' said Mr. Pearson, adding that the average American car has been on the road for roughly nine years. ''Rather than just giving companies cash to burn, it does keep people employed and stimulates demand.''
 Mr. Pearson predicted that if Washington were to emulate the plan in Germany, where the age of the total national fleet is similar to that of the United States, auto sales might rise to 12 million cars. That is well below the 16 million sold in 2007 or even the 13.4 million sold in 2008, but far better than the current 9.5 million rate.
 But making the plan work in the United States could prove trickier than in Europe. 
 Continental drivers already favor small cars, and the program plays to a segment of the market where European giants like Volkswagen, Fiat, Renault and Peugeot are dominant. In the United States, Japanese automakers may end up with most of the rewards, especially if the program is open to all manufacturers as in Europe. 
 Currently, proposed legislation in the House would favor American-made cars, while a Senate plan would reward environmentally friendly vehicles, regardless of where they are built. The plans in Congress call for rebates of $2,500 to $5,000, roughly in line with the 2,500 euro ($3,317) plan in Germany, which is costing Berlin about $2 billion.
 France and Spain announced their initiatives late last year, with Europe's biggest economy, Germany, joining in January. Austria is set to begin Wednesday. In most cases, the refund comes in the form of a discount on the sticker price.
 Even in Germany, where brands like BMW and Mercedes command the kind of loyalty reserved for sports teams elsewhere, the local subsidiaries of Ford and General Motors have turned out to be big beneficiaries. Sales of G.M.'s Opel Corsa have tripled in Germany, leading workers in Germany and Spain to return to full production schedules. 
 That does not mean the incentives will be enough to prevent G.M. and Chrysler from sliding into bankruptcy. Detroit remains more dependent than its foreign competitors on higher-priced, bigger offerings like S.U.V.'s and light trucks, which carry far higher profit margins than small cars. 
 In Germany, more expensive brands have barely benefited from the incentive plan. German car sales jumped 21.5 percent in February, but mass market manufacturers recorded a 37 percent surge, while sales of premium cars fell 19 percent. 
 Still, when figures for March car sales are announced Wednesday in France and Italy, industry experts predict the subsidies will produce significant gains. 
 In Italy, which began its program on Feb. 6, drivers can receive a 1,500 euro discount if they trade in a car that is least 10 years old, with incentives ranging up to 5,000 euros if they buy a vehicle powered by electricity, natural gas or hydrogen. 
 At Fiat, conventional subcompact models like the Fiat Punto are enjoying a strong sales increase. After running on a reduced schedule from October to February, the Fiat plant in Melfi, in southern Italy, is running at full capacity again, churning out the Punto.
 In Germany, Fiat sales overall have jumped from 12,000 cars a month to 14,000 a month since February. 
 In France, 30 percent to 40 percent of new car sales are coming in as a result of the scrapping deal, according to Francois Roudier, a spokesman for the French Auto Manufacturers trade association. Overall sales are still running about 6 percent below last year's rate, but without the bonus for customers, sales would be off 10 percent to 15 percent. 
 A similar incentive program operated in France from 1994 to 1996, Mr. Roudier said. While that plan produced a comparable sales bump initially, it was followed by a severe drop in 1997 and 1998. The French government, he said, is now trying to figure out how to prevent a repeat plunge. 
 ''It has a positive impact, but the question is if they're not renewed, does the market then sag again?'' said Garel Rhys, director of the Center for Automotive Industry Research at Cardiff University in Wales. 
 Along with helping the industry, supporters say the plan will remove hundreds of thousands of pollution-spewing clunkers from the road, while lifting safety standards overall. 
 The old Skoda that Mr. Hrivnak junked in Slovakia was not in such bad shape. He said that when he took it to the junkyard, both he and his wife, Maria, grew misty-eyed as they handed over the keys. 
 But Mr. Hrivnak, a 33-year-old editor at Slovak public television, said he felt better driving a new car with airbags, especially when his 3-year-old son was along for the ride. 
 ''When somebody gives you 2,000 euro, it's very useful,'' he said. ''I had thought about buying a new car for a year.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A junkyard in Slovakia where car buyers are leaving their jalopies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRIK POKORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Vilo Hrivnak at a Volkswagen dealership in Bratislava, shopping for a new car and taking advantage of a generous subsidy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRIK POKORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); EURO (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); SLOVAKIA (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); SPAIN (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



7 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Making Bank Losses Vanish

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Under intense political pressure, the board that sets accounting rules in the United States will meet on Thursday to complete changes in accounting rules that are aimed at reducing the losses banks have been forced to report as the values of their mortgage-backed securities have crumbled.
 The changes, proposed two weeks ago after a Congressional hearing in which Robert H. Herz, the chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, was essentially ordered to change the rules or face Congressional action, are generally supported by banks, although some want the board to go even further. 
 But they have produced a strong reaction from some investors, with one investor group complaining that the changes would ''effectively gut the transparent application of fair value measurement.'' The group also says changes would delay the recovery of the banking system.
 ''Investors,'' wrote Kurt N. Schacht, the managing director of the Centre for Financial Market Integrity of the CFA Institute, ''will not be willing to commit capital to firms that hide the economic value of their assets and liabilities.'' 
 It seems highly unlikely that FASB will make major changes to the proposals that it rushed out only two weeks ago, but it may be willing to consider additional steps. And it will have to face the important decision of when to make the new rule take effect.
 Some banks have requested that the board issue further guidance to make it easier for them to avoid writing down the value of assets, while some investors have asked for detailed disclosures to help them assess how far the newly reported values are from current market value.
 The world of accounting rulemaking is normally a staid and slow moving one, with the board offering detailed rationales for changes and giving interested parties months to comment on them. Most comment letters come from people well versed in the accounting literature, arguing points that can seem arcane even if they could have a major impact on financial reports.
 The process this time has been different in almost every respect. The board allowed only 15 days for comments, and said it would act after taking just a day to review the comments.
 Those comments arrived by the hundreds, including bitter reactions from investors. ''Market value is market value. Stop letting the financial industry call a duck a whale,'' stated an e-mail message signed by Diane Walser. 
 ''Who will benefit?'' asked Roy Bell. ''Only the very ones who already broke all the rules and have brought destruction to the world as we know it.''
 The file also includes letters, evidently solicited by banking organizations, from groups contending that relaxing the rules would allow banks to report higher profits and make more loans.
 The Georgia Affordable Housing Coalition submitted such a comment, perhaps without carefully reading it. The opening paragraph states, ''This letter sets forth the comments of [insert name of organization here] regarding these proposals.'' 
 The proposed rule interpretations deal with two issues in asset valuation. Banks are required to show some assets at market value, and report profits or losses based on changes in that value. Other assets may be reported at original cost, but if their value deteriorates they must be written down to market value if there is an ''other than temporary impairment'' in value.
 The banks argue that current market values are unreasonably low, reflecting distressed trading, and are producing values that are well below the amount that will eventually be realized. 
 One change would allow banks much more room to conclude that inactive markets are distressed, allowing them to value the assets at what they believe they would be worth in a normal market. The other change would let banks avoid reporting some of the impairment losses on their income statements.
 Some financial institutions want immediate action. The Association of Corporate Credit Unions asked the board to make the change retroactive, so that 2008 annual reports could be restated. Whatever the details of the proposal adopted Thursday, it represents an abrupt turnabout for the board. Only a day before the Congressional hearing on March 12, Mr. Herz gave an interview in which he disparaged what he called ''mark to management'' accounting. But after the Congressional grilling, the board quickly moved to make it much easier for banks to value assets at what they should be worth, rather than what they were currently selling for.
 The CFA Institute reacted bitterly to that about-face. ''Continuing on the path of politicized accounting standard-setting that caters to special interests,'' it wrote, would make it hard for the board ''to maintain its credibility.''
 In some ways, the reversal is similar to one that the board made more than a decade ago, when it backed down under Congressional pressure from a rule requiring that companies report the value of stock options as an expense. That rule was revived only after corporate scandals early in this decade.
 If the board does adopt the changes, they may quickly become universal. The International Accounting Standards Board, which sets rules for many countries, itself hurriedly changed an aspect of its market-value rule under pressure from the president of France. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



8 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Taking Their Unemployed Status and Running With It, in a Race

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Some of the competitors were tall, others short; some winners were fleet of foot, others soft of gut. They flocked to Tompkins Square Park on Tuesday during what would have been lunch hour to partake in the largely impromptu, moderately chaotic, and, as it turned out, highly cathartic Unemployment Olympics -- which organizers believe is the first, and hope is the last, event of its kind.
 Things got under way around 1:30 p.m., after Nick Goddard, who is 26 and lost his job as a computer programmer last month, showed up with a few friends. Mr. Goddard said he had hatched the idea for the Unemployment Olympics because he yearned for the chance to ''battle all the unemployed people for stuff.'' 
 ''It's also not a bad time to be unemployed,'' said Mr. Goddard, who is from Rochester Hills, Mich., and lives in the East Village. ''There is no stigma associated with it now.''
 Four events were planned: ''Pin the Blame on the Boss,'' a ''You're Fired'' race, pinata-bashing and the highly anticipated fax machine toss, which had to be nixed at the last minute, to much heartbreak. The parks department balked at the idea of having office equipment hoisted aloft (''dangerous,'' said a spokeswoman) and then smashing to the ground (''which is essentially littering,'' per the spokeswoman), so Mr. Goddard substituted ''Office Phone Skee-Ball,'' which also involved hurling office equipment about, albeit equipment of a smaller sort.
 Registration was taken at the ''Unemployment Office,'' which Mr. Goddard and a friend had fashioned late Monday out of cardboard boxes and green paint. An unemployment card or a letter of dismissal from a former employer was required to enter. Some 50 Olympians came from all over the city and beyond, proof of joblessness in hand, including Brad Krzanak, 38, who lost his job as a programmer for an online radio station in November, and Jesse Fallick, 24, who was laid off from the clothing line Steve and Barry's eight months ago and spent much of the Olympics spreading the word about another summit for the unemployed, Laid-Off Camp. 
 ''I don't think it's going to be totally athletic,'' said Mr. Fallick, who was wearing flip flops.
 ''Pin the Blame on the Boss,'' which involved blindfolds, took longer than anyone expected. Some people began to wander about, while others stretched their quadriceps. Jing Zhang, a 30-year old soprano who lives in Jersey City, took advantage of the television cameras on hand (at one point, journalists threatened to outnumber the participants) and broke into a full-throated rendition of a Puccini aria, ''O mio babbino caro.''
 As it happened, she did not enter the games because she is on a student visa from China, and was not sure about the citizenship requirements. 
 Next up was the ''Office Phone Skee-Ball'' toss, in which the jobless tossed said phones aloft and willed them to land in numbered chalk circles for the most points. The crowd got worked up and began cheering. Mr. Goddard began doling out cupfuls of Hi-C. 
 Then, with great glee, the pinata was smashed, unleashing a blizzard that included PayDays, the peanut candy bars. The afternoon culminated in the ''You're Fired'' race -- a sprint across the playground to see who would get to the cardboard unemployment office first.
 The fastest was Alex Mermelstein, 27, of Queens, who lost his job as a video editor in mid-January and predicted, before the games commenced, that he would win the race because, he said, ''I'm very fast.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the ''You're Fired'' race, Jonathan Balthaser, left, was second, Ryan Krill, right, was third, and Alex Mermelstein was first, as he had predicted. More photographs at nytimes.com/nyregion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (60%); LAYOFFS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



9 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: After Turnaround, Fiat May Find Opportunity

BYLINE: By ERIC SYLVERS

DATELINE: MILAN 

 BODY:
Four years ago, Fiat's car unit was in such bad shape that General Motors paid $2 billion to buy its way out of its commitment to acquire the company. Now, after a reversal of fortune worthy of a Hollywood movie, Fiat is being billed as Chrysler's savior.
 President Obama is requiring that the two companies complete their plan for partnership before Chrysler can receive another multibillion-dollar loan to keep it out of bankruptcy. But can a marriage with Fiat save Chrysler, and how would a union look? 
 Industry experts on both sides of the Atlantic herald Sergio Marchionne, the chief executive of the Fiat Group and the architect behind Fiat's turnaround, as just the person Chrysler needs. Yet even if Fiat and Chrysler reach an agreement -- and Fiat is in the driver's seat, as the White House has imposed an April 30 deadline on Chrysler -- Mr. Marchionne will run into challenges that have relegated a long list of cross-border partnerships in the auto industry to failure.
 ''In returning Fiat to health, Marchionne succeeded in doing something that seemed nothing short of impossible, but saving Chrysler might be even a bigger challenge,'' said Sergio Pigoli, chairman of the financial consulting firm Pigoli Consulenza. ''What could work in their favor is that everybody knows this is a last-ditch opportunity for Chrysler.''
 But Chrysler has confounded many an investor. Daimler-Benz of Germany bought it in 1998 and never managed to integrate its American and European businesses successfully. Daimler sold 80.1 percent of Chrysler to Cerberus Capital Management in 2007.
 Fiat itself flirted with bankruptcy in 2003 and 2004 after years of racking up losses and debt. Though Fiat's profit dropped 16 percent last year, the company earned 1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion) while G.M., Chrysler and Ford struggled for survival. Fiat's operating profit minus one-time costs inched up 4 percent in 2008.
 Under the original preliminary accord with Chrysler, Fiat was to get a 35 percent stake in return for letting Chrysler build small cars using a number of its ''platforms,'' the industry term for the mechanical underpinnings of a vehicle, including engines. Fiat specializes in fuel-efficient pint-size vehicles; Chrysler has depended on heavy sport utility vehicles and minivans.
 Fiat would have received access to the American market and Chrysler would have gained a distribution network outside of North America. 
 Gualberto Ranieri, a Fiat spokesman, said the previous accord had been thrown out and negotiations had begun anew.
 Mr. Marchionne, who took over at Fiat in 2004, flew to Detroit on Monday to meet with Chrysler's management.
 The basic outline of a future alliance is likely to look much like the proposed one. Eventually Fiat and Chrysler would build both companies' models together on assembly lines in the United States and Europe, allowing economies of scale. 
 ''We're not doing this because we're good Samaritans,'' Mr. Marchionne told a New York Times reporter in an interview this year. ''We're willing to take a risk on investing technology and time to help Chrysler come back to life and bring value to Fiat shareholders.'' 
 ''The pressure is on Chrysler, not on Fiat,'' said Anil Valsan, global director of research for automotive and transportation at Frost & Sullivan. ''Fiat can survive without this agreement, but it is a great opportunity for the company to get a good foothold in the U.S. market through dealerships and the supply network.''
 For Italy, President Obama's support comes as a flag-waving vote of confidence a quarter of a century after Fiat cars were last sold in the United States. At the time the Italian carmaker left the market (it still sells a handful of Ferraris and Maseratis), detractors were referring to the company name as an acronym for ''Fix it again Tony.''
 ''Our alliance will not only make Chrysler a stronger company financially,'' Mr. Marchionne said in a statement Monday, ''but it will also help preserve American jobs, significantly accelerate Chrysler's efforts to produce fuel-efficient vehicles and lead to a more rapid repayment of U.S. taxpayer dollars.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fiat has specialized in small, fuel-efficient cars like the Fiat 500, left. Chrysler has focused on larger cars, like sport utility vehicles. Last year, it released the Aspen hybrid, above, but it had stopped making them by the end of the year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VALENTIN FLAURAUD/REUTERS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRYSLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ACQUISITIONS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (94%); F (BIT) (94%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



10 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SEATTLE JOURNAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: An Alternative Sport For an Alternative City

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
When the new Swede arrived in the new Seattle, he needed no ax or fishing net, the tools of so many other Scandinavian immigrants who had come before. Instead he wore shorts, and when his name was called on his first day at work -- ''Freddie Ljungberg!'' -- 28,000 people erupted. 
 ''They sold it to me that the fans are special here,'' Mr. Ljungberg said Saturday night in the locker room at Qwest Field here, just after playing his first minutes at midfield for an American professional soccer team, the new Seattle Sounders FC. ''And I must say, they are.'' 
 Two games into their first season in Major League Soccer, the Sounders have not allowed a score by their opponents. 
 More important, both games were sold out, and the team has sold all 22,000 season-ticket packages it had offered. 
 Ushers who work games at Qwest for the Seattle Seahawks football team and now the Sounders say they are amazed by Sounder fans standing, stomping and chanting for the full 90 minutes of play, many waving bright green Sounders scarves. Joy, underwritten by one of Microsoft's ubiquitous sponsorships, prevails. 
 ''They wanted this,'' said Grallin Butler, an usher presiding over Section 129 on Saturday. 
 Even in a city that has supported professional football, baseball and basketball teams for decades, many people say that something else is at work in the instant passion for the Sounders. They say it reflects the region's well-established affection for soccer but also its conviction that it is not quite like the rest of America. When Seattle cheers the Sounders, it cheers its civic image.
 ''Soccer is kind of the alternative sport for the United States,'' said J. B. Wogan, 24, a reporter for a suburban weekly newspaper. ''And Seattle is kind of an alternative city.'' 
 Mr. Wogan was standing with friends in a section where a man with a megaphone led cheers of ''Seattle Sounders Ole.'' 
 The promotion plan for the team has appealed to that notion as well as to the city's international aspirations. The FC at the end of the team's name stands for Football Club, intended to evoke a European feel. The Sounders scarves were another idea imported from overseas. Billboards, including one near the docks where salmon fisherman still leave for Alaska each spring, say: ''The world's game comes to Seattle.''
 Of course, that line offended some, a fact that reinforced how seriously many people here take soccer and Seattle's place in the world. After all, a professional soccer team called the Sounders first played here in the 1970s, as part of the old North American Soccer League. 
 The early version of the Sounders sometimes drew more than 20,000 fans, but by the mid-1980s, the Sounders and the league were gone. When Major League Soccer began play in 1996, Seattle was left out. The area only had a minor league team until now.
 Among the new team's owners is Paul G. Allen, a co-founder of Microsoft. (Another is the comedian Drew Carey.) The logo of Microsoft's XBOX 360 video game products is splashed across team jerseys and much of Qwest Field, muddying the notion that this is a countercultural phenomenon. 
 The new Sounders opened extra seating for their first game, on March 19, and 32,000 people came. The league's commissioner, Don Garber, said he was moved to tears. 
 In recent weeks, the league has announced that its championship game will be played here in November. And now there is excited talk of a Pacific Northwest soccer rivalry: Portland, Ore., and Vancouver, British Columbia, have just been awarded teams, to begin play in 2011. 
 It all comes at a time when Seattle has plenty to be glum about. It lost its professional basketball team, the Sonics, to Oklahoma City last year. Across from Qwest Field, the cranes at the Port of Seattle are not as busy as they once were. Unemployment is rising quickly.
 ''We seem to have struck a chord and been a pretty good story in a relatively dim landscape,'' said Adrian Hanauer, the team's general manager and one of its owners. ''That's fine for now, but we know that this is a what-have-you-done-for-me-lately kind of business. We have to deliver on the pitch and connect to our fans.''
 Signing Mr. Ljungberg, a star in Europe, a former Calvin Klein underwear model and ''a world-class soccer player,'' reflected that strategy, Mr. Hanauer said. 
 ''There was zero thought put into him being Scandinavian,'' he said. 
 Still, Mr. Hanauer added: ''I've been out with him in Seattle, and Scandinavians have approached him. They say, 'You're Swedish, I'm Swedish, too. We should be best friends!' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fans Jordan McDonald, with the horn, and Phil Andrus, with the spiked hair, go all out for the Sounders soccer team at Qwest Field in Seattle.
Freddie Ljungberg, a European soccer star and world-class player, is a member of the Sounders.
 Sounders soccer games at Qwest Field have been selling out. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); BASEBALL (71%); BASKETBALL (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (55%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%) WASHINGTON, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



11 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Police Seek a Second Zone Of High Security in the City

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said Tuesday that he wanted to create a security network in Midtown Manhattan that would involve license plate readers, heavily armed officers and a web of private and public surveillance cameras. 
 The plan, which would resemble a counterterrorism network already being installed in Lower Manhattan between Canal Street and Battery Park, would keep a hyper-vigilant eye on the corridor from 34th to 59th Streets, from the Hudson River to the East River, the commissioner told City Council members at a budget hearing Tuesday. 
 Like its sister system, the Midtown zone would have at its core the collection of data, including license plate numbers and video of people on the streets. It would rely on a web of public and private security cameras feeding to a joint coordination center at 55 Broadway that became functional last fall. 
 ''Because this model of cooperation holds such promise, we are looking to extend it to other areas of the city,'' Mr. Kelly told members of the City Council's Public Safety Committee. ''It will give us a comprehensive and real-time view of Midtown, offering us the best possible coverage while avoiding redundancies.''
 The Police Department has requested $21 million in federal grant money to pay for the first phase, said Mr. Kelly, who added that the cost could reach $58 million. He conceded, under questioning from Peter F. Vallone Jr., the committee chairman, that the plan was dependent on federal funds.
 The plan devised to protect downtown Manhattan, known as the Lower Manhattan Security Initiative, has been a combustible issue since it was introduced by Mr. Kelly in 2005. Proponents say it will make Lower Manhattan more of an impenetrable target, creating a London-like ''ring of steel'' around downtown, with mobile teams of heavily armed officers as well as technology like closed-circuit television cameras, license plate readers and explosive trace detection systems. That plan is expected to cost $92 million, most of which the department has secured.
 But the New York Civil Liberties Union filed a freedom of information act lawsuit against the department in September, seeking documents about the initiative and particularly about how the department planned to protect citizens' privacy even as it moved to protect them.
 The civil liberties group said on Tuesday that more light needed to be shined on the process. ''The N.Y.P.D. must not spend vast amounts of public money blanketing downtown and Midtown Manhattan in surveillance cameras without any public discussion of its plans and without clear privacy protections,'' said Donna Lieberman, the group's executive director. 
 Separately, the department is moving ahead with a proposal, Operation Sentinel, which would track every vehicle that entered Manhattan by photographing and scanning license plates at every bridge and tunnel. The plan also calls for sensors to detect the presence of radioactivity.
 At Tuesday's hearing, Mr. Kelly spoke of the economy's effect on the force, which would get $4.37 billion in the next fiscal year under a proposed budget from the mayor's office, down from $4.52 billion this year.
 He said $1 million had been cut for a program to test police officer candidates for steroid use. Instead, officers will be tested after they are hired but before the end of their probationary period.
 Also, Mr. Kelly said the department's vehicle budget would be slashed by $6.1 million by cutting plans to buy 245 cars -- a fraction of the 7,000-vehicle fleet. Mr. Kelly said no marked patrol cars would be lost, but there would be a cut in unmarked cars and rental or leased vehicles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITIES (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OPTICAL CHARACTER RECOGNITION (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); LITIGATION (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); TERRORISM (57%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



12 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Cut Costs Is Close For Builders and Unions

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Reeling from the real estate downturn in the city, construction unions and builders are edging closer to an agreement that they say will reduce labor costs and enable at least some of their projects in Manhattan to proceed despite the weak economy. 
 The stakes are high for both sides. Developers, who paid record-breaking prices for land during the boom years, are now desperately seeking ways to cut their costs and keep projects alive. 
 The unions, in turn, are eager to keep their members employed and to retain their traditional dominance over large-scale projects in New York. Yet many are reluctant to give up hard-won wages and benefits.
 Some construction managers and union officials involved in the negotiations say that the pending agreement on work rules, wages and benefits would cut labor costs by 15 to 20 percent, but not the 25 percent originally sought by builders. Many involved are loath to discuss it publicly for fear of blowing up the fragile talks with the union construction trades, all of which are covered by contracts. The carpenters and the electricians have been much more willing to bend, union officials and contractors say, than the steamfitters and the operating engineers, the highly paid operators of cranes, bulldozers and other heavy equipment.
 Some developers, however, are skeptical that any agreement will translate into substantial savings. Some doubt whether even a 25 percent reduction would be enough to salvage a residential project when rents have dropped by a third or more.
 ''A lot of my developers are concerned that it doesn't go far enough,'' Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said of the proposed agreement. ''But we're grateful discussions are taking place.''
 Among the developers pushing for a deal are Larry Silverstein, who is building at ground zero, Stephen M. Ross, who has a slow-moving project on 42nd Street at 10th Avenue, and the Milstein family, which has a project under way at Battery Park City.
 The three people at the center of the negotiations -- Raymond G. McGuire, president of the Contractors Association of New York, Louis J. Coletti, president of the Building Trades Employers Association, and Gary La Barbera, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, an alliance of unions -- did not return calls requesting comment.
 ''Industry leaders,'' said James A. Parrott, chief economist at the union-supported Fiscal Policy Institute, ''should be seeking help from Washington to retain construction jobs and maintain wages, benefits and safety standards.'' 
 ''Our national economic recovery depends on labor and management working together to expand and not weaken the middle class,'' he said. 
 Construction employment in New York City climbed to roughly 130,000 during the boom years. But a report by the New York Building Congress predicts that that number could fall by 23 percent to 100,000 next year.
 Nonunion projects are showing up in what has been a union bastion: Manhattan. The Atlantic Development Group is putting up an 89-unit apartment house at 10th Avenue and 23rd Street in Chelsea with nonunion contractors. And at a union job on the Upper West Side, the Chetrit Group and Stellar Management took the highly unusual step of asking contractors for new bids on three 15-story buildings already under construction on Columbus Avenue, between 97th and 100th Streets. Developers and union officials expect nonunion contractors to take over the project. 
 ''Our main goal was to continue with the project and keep as many people working as possible,'' said Jeff Gdanski, a vice president at the Chetrit Group. 
 Bruce Ratner, a developer who traditionally builds with union contractors, recently stopped at the 38th floor of his planned 76-story Beekman Tower in Lower Manhattan, threatening to cap the building at 40 stories if construction unions did not accept concessions on wages and work rules. 
 Mr. Ratner, who is not involved in the current negotiations, stopped work for three months early last year while he scrambled to obtain $680 million in construction financing. At that time, he decided to switch from condominiums to rentals. In another cost-cutting move, he modified the design by the architect Frank Gehry, using a standard curtain wall instead of one that would seem to be undulating, on one of the tower's eight sides. 
 It was not so long ago that major Manhattan developers and their lenders worried little about these things, figuring that rents and sale prices would gallop well ahead of the surging cost of land, concrete and steel. 
 But the cityscape is now littered with half-finished towers that have run into financial problems. Construction managers say that developers are stuck with land costs of $400 a square foot or more, up from $200 five years ago.
 In January, developers and construction managers who often use union contractors began talking about a citywide agreement on wages, work rules and benefits. Developers and managers say they prefer union contractors, despite their higher wages, because they provide highly skilled workers.
 ''This year is not too bad,'' said one union official who insisted on anonymity because he was not supposed to discuss the talks. ''But 2010 is looking like we're going off the ledge.''
 But many unions have balked at wage cuts, particularly those who have not suffered layoffs, like cement workers and operating engineers. Some contractors have also questioned the value of the concessions that some unions have agreed upon, even ones that have been verified by consultants. There was talk of a compromise for a select group of six projects, including those owned by Mr. Ross, Mr. Silverstein and the Milstein family.
 Executives and labor officials who have been briefed on the latest discussions say the unions may agree to consider projects on a ''case-by-case'' basis for a special ''project labor agreement'' that would save developers whose projects are otherwise not viable up to 20 percent on the current labor contracts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



13 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: The Greening of Pittsburgh

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE H. O'TOOLE

 BODY:
In a contemporary retelling of Aesop's fable of the tortoise and the hare, Pittsburgh is finding recession-era advantages in a slow-growth legacy.
 The city, which has lost half its population since 1950, had a well-chronicled change of character over the second half of the 20th century: from a center of the steel industry to headquarters for many large corporations to a much more diverse economy that encompasses health care, education, finance and technology.
 As it shrank, the city had relatively little new construction compared with many United States cities. But it was in the forefront of the movement to conserve existing structures and clean up the contaminated industrial sites called brownfields, becoming a leader in the field of sustainable building. That is now serving Pittsburgh well during the economic downturn.
 Describing the area's rebuilt economy, the Allegheny County executive, Dan Onorato, said: ''It's clean, it's shiny, it's green. Slow, steady growth is our strongest asset.'' 
 The city's commercial real estate market is relatively healthy. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Pittsburgh earned the top ranking in Moody's Investors Service's quarterly ''Red-Yellow-Green'' report on the state of commercial real estate in 60 major United States cities.
 Though the southwestern Pennsylvania metropolitan area is only the 22nd largest in the United States in terms of population, the city employed energy-efficient construction well ahead of larger cities. In 2005, Pittsburgh claimed more LEED-certified square footage -- meaning it had met Leadership in Energy and Design standards for energy-saving designs and building techniques -- than anywhere else in the United States. As other cities have caught up, Pittsburgh now ranks seventh nationally in the number of buildings with such certification, according to the local Green Building Alliance.
 Founded in 1993, the alliance says it is the first nonprofit organization in the nation to encourage green commercial building. ''There was no government-driven agenda here,'' said Rebecca Flora, former director of the Green Building Alliance and now senior vice president of education and research at the national Green Building Council, a nonprofit organization that oversees the LEED program. ''Pittsburgh's doing green in a weak market city with existing building stock, and it's done it without government programs.''
 A number of century-old landmarks have been revived as energy-efficient buildings in the last decade, and several major projects, both new and retrofits, will open this spring. 
 Years before national environmental building standards were set in 2000, Pittsburgh began experimenting in sustainability as local architects, engineers and academics debated how to reuse old industrial sites. 
 ''We were working on the Model T of green building,'' said the architect Bob Kobet of the discussions among early proponents of solar energy, weatherization and nontoxic design.
 With innovations that would later become widely accepted, like a rooftop garden and photovoltaic roof panels, the local Green Building Alliance's first project, in 1998, retrofitted a 100-year-old former soap factory and art gallery as office space for Conservation Consultants Inc. ''Nonprofits became the test market,'' said Ms. Flora, with local foundations underwriting new designs.
 Working with advisers from Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh, the alliance also provided technical advice for more complex renovations for other nonprofit groups. 
 In 1999, for example, Phipps Conservatory, a Victorian landmark at the entrance to a city park, began planning an energy-efficient expansion to blend with the century-old structure. A local architecture firm, IKM, preserved its signature fritted-glass dome with a $5.2 million below-grade welcome center. A 12,000-square-foot tropical forest exhibit deploys a radical roof venting system and geothermal tubes for passive cooling in a $7.5 million glasshouse. A solid-oxide fuel cell produces electricity from natural gas.
 Two other public venues -- the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh and the David L. Lawrence Convention Center -- incorporated energy efficiency in ambitious redesigns. The 1.5-million-square-foot convention center, designed by Rafael Vinoly in 1999, was completed in 2003. Its swooping riverfront design uses natural ventilation and illuminates a exhibition hall entirely through its windows and skylights.
 The Children's Museum sought to blend a historic 1897 post office with a 1939 planetarium that had stood vacant since 1991. The solution -- a glass lantern shape that appears to float between the grand older structures -- reused original materials, like terrazzo, marble and copper. In 2006, the design won awards from the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the American Institute of Architects. 
 Gary Saulson, director of corporate real estate for the PNC Financial Services Group, the nation's fifth-largest bank, was a green building skeptic until 1998. Steel girders were already rising along the Monongahela River for Firstside Center, the bank's 650,000-square-foot operations center, when Ms. Flora met with Mr. Saulson to suggest making the structure a sustainable building.
 ''At the end of the meeting, I had committed to make Firstside into a green building,'' Mr. Saulson said. ''It seemed like the right thing to do. As a company, we embrace new ideas and innovation.'' 
 Mr. Saulson says that PNC now has more buildings certified as environmentally friendly than any other company in the world. Fifty-five have achieved LEED certification, and 15 more are in the pipeline, including the new 780,000-square-foot headquarters at Three PNC Plaza in downtown Pittsburgh.
 Mr. Saulson said the green investment was cost-effective. He said that suppliers had quickly responded to the demand for sustainable supplies like low volatile-organic-compound paints, energy-efficient window walls and sustainably harvested plywood at a competitive price. ''We're building our branches as LEED-certified buildings for $100,000 less than one of our major competitors is building the same size branch that's not green,'' he said. 
 As sustainable building gathers national momentum, 41 more LEED projects are expected to open in southwestern Pennsylvania in 2009. Among the largest is the new 1.5-million-square-foot Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, opening May 2 in the Lawrenceville neighborhood. The $625 million campus, which overlooks the Allegheny River, will have two green-certified buildings among a half dozen.
 Consol Energy Center, the planned home of the Pittsburgh Penguins beginning in the fall of 2010, intends to be the National Hockey League's first green arena, with seating for 18,000. The design includes a glass-walled atrium and ventilation that admits natural air. 
 Twenty miles north of the city in Butler County, the Westinghouse Electric Company hopes to attain LEED status for its 825,000-square-foot Cranberry Woods center. Owned and built by Wells Real Estate Funds, the headquarters and technology center will open the first of three buildings in June. 
 Federal historic tax credits have aided green renovations at two other city sites. The Union Trust Building, a 1915 downtown structure with a Flemish Gothic exterior and rotunda capped by a stained-glass dome, expects to gain LEED certification for $10 million in energy-saving renovations by its owner, the Mika Realty Group of Los Angeles.
 In the city's densely populated East End, Bakery Square, the former home of a Nabisco plant, is to reopenin 2010 with about 380,000 square feet of mixed-use retail and office space. The $113 million project will be crowned with a 75-kilowatt solar panel array. Though Pittsburgh's cloudy winters limit sun-generated power, it will provide 1.5 percent of the projected energy use for the site and save $6,000 a year. 
 ''Pittsburgh has a legacy of really beautiful public venues that have become green and accessible,'' said Ms Flora of the Green Building Council. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 1915 Union Trust Building in Pittsburgh, with its rotunda capped by a stained-glass dome, has been given an energy-conserving renovation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); BROWNFIELD SITES (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); CITIES (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); RANKINGS (71%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); COUNTIES (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (66%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



14 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Up A Bit in March

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Some slivers of hopes helped Americans' feelings about the economy hold steady in March, after plummeting to record lows in February. But Americans are still gloomy about their futures, given mounting layoffs and shrinking earnings. 
 The Conference Board said Tuesday that its Consumer Confidence Index roseto 26.0 in March, from a revised 25.3 reading in February, which was itself a big drop from the 37.4 level in January.
 The slight rise followed three consecutive monthly drops in consumer confidence. But the reading came in below the 28 expected by economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters, and remains at less than half of its level of 65.9 last March.
 How people feel about their economic situation now, known as the Present Situation Index, slipped to 21.5, from 22.3 in February. The measure of their assessment about the economy over the next six months, or the Expectations Index, rose to 28.9, from 27.3 in February.
 Economists closely monitor consumer confidence, since consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of economic activity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



15 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Big Bond Sale In California Could Revive Public Works

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
After months of inability to access the bond market, California has sold $6.5 billion in general obligation bonds, $2.5 billion more than it had planned, though with higher yields than in the past.
 In a piece of good news for the state's battered economy, the sale will allow the revival of long-awaited public works projects.
 Outside of its size -- it was the third largest tax-exempt bond sale ever in the United States -- the sale was also notable because it could set the table for other states to follow California's lead and increase their bond yields. The higher yields are intended to drum up interest among tepid investors and keep the state's infrastructure projects going. 
 California offered 6.1 percent yields on the 30-year bonds last week, compared with 5.3 percent yields on similar issues last June. Wisconsin also recently raised its yields to generate interest.
 States have come to realize that ''it is no longer 2006,'' said Matt Fabian, a managing director of Municipal Market Advisors. ''The conditions are more difficult, and the yields you are going to have to pay are going to be higher. This is just the cost of capital right now. These levels may look average next year.''
 The California treasurer, Bill Lockyer, had planned to sell $4 billion in bonds over the course of three days last week. But Mr. Lockyer found that the state was able to peddle $6.5 billion worth in just two days even though its bond rating has taken a hammering in recent months, making it among the lowest in the nation.
 California had been all but shut out of the credit markets this winter as the Legislature grappled to close $41 billion in budget shortfalls, causing the governor to shut down projects across the state. A budget agreement was reached in February. 
 ''Because they were able to sell that much, that means we had additional proceeds to apply to the projects,'' said H. D. Palmer, a spokesman for the California Department of Finance. 
 The state intends to sell more bonds this spring, and if institutional investors continue to see tasty yields, it could lead to more bond sales generally, Mr. Fabian said. 
 ''Hopefully this is a trend, because the muni market will get healthier and become more liquid,'' he said. 
 With its new money, California plans to repay earlier loans made by a state board that makes loans against pending bonds to state and local agencies, and it will earmark about $1 billion for transportation, water, school construction and flood control projects. The state also plans to pay $1 billion in outstanding bills from prior projects, and will spend about $700 million to get infrastructure projects that were halted this winter back on track. 
 The goal, Mr. Palmer said, was to balance the financial needs of current projects with those the state would like to start in an effort to create and maintain employment, while still taking some of the proceeds to pay bills. ''The good news,'' he said, ''is we can get back in the infrastructure game.'' 
 But $5.8 billion of California's fragile budget deal is dependent on measures that must be approved by voters next month. If those measures fail, lawmakers and the governor will have to dig back into the budget, which could cause the rates to increase more. That is why, Mr. Fabian theorized, the state chose to make such a large sale.
 The ''likelihood is that yields will get higher,'' he said. ''California is being realistic about their own credit forecast.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FLOOD CONTROL (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



16 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 730 words

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON and RACHEL SANDERSON

 BODY:
Fixing Imbalances
 For the Long Run
 Cheap money from China helped create the debt-fueled investment bubble that has now burst spectacularly. Beijing's policy of keeping its currency artificially low allowed it to rack up huge trade surpluses -- cash that was recycled to help Americans live beyond their means. The Group of 20 leaders gathering in London ought to be focusing on preventing such imbalances in the future. 
 It looks, however, as if they are going to shirk the issue because confronting it could cause another diplomatic row. In January, after Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary, suggested that the Chinese were manipulating their currency, Beijing accused the Americans of lax regulation and excessive consumption. 
 The G-20's draft communique dances around the topic, merely committing the countries to get the International Monetary Fund to conduct ''candid'' surveillance of their economies and the impact of their policies on one another. 
 Optimists may hope that Beijing has learned its lesson from the last dispute. China's exports have slumped as the United States and other debtor nations have tightened their belts. 
 But don't count on it. Therefore, once the immediate crisis is over, America should turn its attention to two other kinds of self-help. 
 First, as long as the United States continues to run a trade deficit, it should discipline itself to start running a federal budget surplus as soon as possible. That should mitigate any renewed attempt by its citizens to live beyond their means. And if another crisis hits, at least the government's finances will be in better shape.
 Second, the United States should consider refinancing some of its existing debt by selling the Chinese very long-dated dollar bonds. If it could lock in cheap money in its own currency with no near-term need for refinancing, it would no longer have to fear that Beijing might pull the rug out from under it. 
 The Chinese, of course, may not agree to such a plan. The governor of the Bank of China, after all, has started talking about the need for a new global reserve currency. 
 But Beijing cannot have it both ways. If it promotes an alternative currency, the Chinese renminbi will rise against a sinking dollar -- which, in turn, will help bring world trade into a more sustainable balance.
 Fiat in the Hot Seat
 Fiat faces a touch choice in its negotiations with Chrysler, which is up against an April 30 deadline from the United States government. If no deal is reached with its Italian auto industry counterpart, bankruptcy looms. The question is: Should Fiat be trying hard to get a deal before the deadline?
 The American government wants an early deal, although only after Chrysler restructures its balance sheet and renegotiates certain contracts. So a quick arrangement might make the government more generous with financial aid. Moreover, Fiat is set to get 20 percent of Chrysler for no money down. That sounds like a fairly safe price.
 And if Fiat doesn't get a deal now, a rival might swoop in. That could cost it the strategic opportunity to combine sales networks with Chrysler, ramping up its scale. Fiat's boss, Sergio Marchionne, has identified 5.5 million cars as the threshold for Fiat's enduring profitability, which is more than double its current production.
 Still, Mr. Marchionne could wait for a while. Fiat's cars are not going to arrive in the United States tomorrow and, if he waits, there could be a better deal. He could, for instance, bid for just the bits he wants -- Chrysler's factories, parts of the dealer network and associated government aid. Fiat's technology, which was the centerpiece of the tentative arrangement between the two companies announced in January, would presumably still be valuable for a bankrupt Chrysler. 
 He might also worry that negotiations and subsequent management challenges (and monitoring by the American government) would suck time away from Fiat's leaders. Chrysler's market share in the United States is small and its problems have been around for a generation. Daimler couldn't straighten it out. If Mr. Marchionne decides to do a deal, whether sooner or later, he should first be confident that Fiat has a better shot at success than its German rival.
 HUGO DIXON and RACHEL SANDERSON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China's efforts to keep its currency value low has helped create trade imbalances.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF CHINA LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



17 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 315 words

 BODY:
CONTROLLED BANKRUPTCY The government is seeking to ease G.M. into a controlled bankruptcy, somewhere between a prepackaged deal and court chaos, persuading some creditors to agree to splitting it. 
 A REAL DEADLINE FOR U.A.W. So far, the auto workers' union has resisted deadlines for concessions on its contracts at G.M. and Chrysler. But with the possibility of a government-supervised restructuring, the union may be forced to act. 
 ABANDON SHIP The bad economy is creating a nationwide flotilla of forsaken boats, as owners unable to maintain them simply beach them, sink them or let them float away. [A1.]
 CERBERUS SEEKS A DEAL Cerberus, faced with the near certainty that it will be forced to take a huge loss as it gives up ownership of a majority stake in Chrysler, is trying for a merger between GMAC and Chrysler Financial, hoping for an eventual profit. [B1.]
 CASH FOR CLUNKERS Hundreds of thousands of European drivers have junked their old cars in exchange for discounts of up to $2,600 on new vehicles, and the Obama administration is considering a similar program. [B1.]
 FROM PARIAH TO SAVIOR Four years ago, the Italian automaker Fiat's was in such bad shape that General Motors paid $2 billion to buy its way out of its commitment to acquire it. Now, Fiat is seen as a potential savior for Chrysler. [B4.]
 CAR BUYERS' PROTECTIONFord and G.M. are offering payment protection plans to help consumers who may be putting off buying a new car because of worries about losing their jobs. [B5.]
 HISTORY SAYS STIMULUS WORKS The question of whether stimulus works has been answered pretty clearly over the last century: Yes. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [B1.]
 NEW ACCOUNTING RULES Under political pressure, the board that sets accounting rules in the United States will meet to complete changes aimed at reducing the losses banks report as mortgage-backed fall in value. [B1.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); LAYOFFS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (73%); MERGERS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (68%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (84%); F (BIT) (84%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



18 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Four Banks Are the First To Pay Back Aid Money

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Four small banks became the first to return millions of dollars of emergency aid, and more may soon follow as the industry tries to escape what it considers the onerous conditions attached to the government's money.
 Signature Bank of New York said on Tuesday that it had repaid $120 million to the Treasury Department. Old National Bancorp of Indiana returned $100 million, Iberiabank of Louisiana paid back $90 million, and Bank of Marin Bancorp of Novato, Calif., repaid $28 million. All of the banks paid 5 percent interest on the money they had received. 
 The four banks were the first to announce that they had returned money from the Troubled Asset Relief Fund, or TARP. The Treasury Department has set aside $250 billion to prop up the banking system, with about half of that money given to the eight biggest banks. About 500 small banks have received $73.7 billion. 
 But the purpose of the TARP money and the public perception of the fund have changed since then.
 What was billed as a program intended to help healthy banks increase lending and swallow up troubled rivals widened to include a number of struggling banks. New restrictions on executive compensation and dividend payouts made such aid less palatable to bank managers. 
 ''We don't want to be touched by the stigma attached to firms that had taken money,'' said Scott A. Shay, the chairman of Signature Bank. He said he also worried that the conditions on the aid could hurt the way he paid bankers and sales representatives.
 Iberiabank executives said that tougher rules, including limiting dividends, made taking the aid untenable. ''It really changed significantly from how it started,'' said John R. Davis, a senior vice president at the bank. ''All those changes made it very difficult for a bank like us to participate in the program.''
 Originally, banks that accepted TARP money were required to raise private capital before they could repay the loan. But after Congress passed its economic stimulus bill in mid-February, the repayment policy was loosened as strict new compensation rules were put in place. 
 Banks could apply to their primary regulators for permission to return the TARP money to the Treasury Department early. The returned money could be used for other Treasury programs.
 This week, the Treasury Department said that it would have about $134.5 billion of TARP money left, assuming what it said was a ''conservative estimate'' that $25 billion of the funds would be repaid. Industry groups, like the American Bankers Association, have lobbied aggressively to allow the banks to repay the money quickly, saying it would send a positive signal to depositors and investors that the nation's banks were sound. 
 The announcements from the four banks indicate that all three major regulators -- the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Insurance Deposit Corporation -- are open to granting waivers. 
 Only banks deemed ''well-capitalized'' are expected to receive waivers. Regulators are still scrutinizing the balance sheets of the biggest banks as part of a comprehensive stress test to determine whether they need more capital. Regulators are unlikely to make such decisions until the test is complete.
 Also unclear is the timetable for the country's biggest banks to return TARP money. Top executives at Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and Bank of America have publicly said that they intend to repay it quickly. 
 President Obama did not provide specifics about the conditions that would allow banks to repay the loans quickly. At a meeting at the White House on Friday, at least two chief executives, Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs and Kenneth I. Chenault of American Express, asked the president to provide detailed guidance for returning the TARP money quickly.
 Mr. Obama acknowledged that quick repayment could be a positive signal to the markets but expressed concern about undermining the administration's efforts to bolster lending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANK FAILURES (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); DIVIDENDS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SALES FORCE (66%)

COMPANY: BANK OF MARIN BANCORP (91%); SIGNATURE BANK (NEW YORK NY) (84%); OLD NATIONAL BANCORP (83%); IBERIABANK CORP (57%)

TICKER: BMRC (NASDAQ) (91%); SBNY (NASDAQ) (84%); ONB (NYSE) (83%); IBKC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



19 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Workers Detain Bosses in France

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Workers at a Caterpillar plant in the French Alps briefly held five of their bosses in a dispute over their severance packages, workers and union officials said Tuesday.
 ''There is no violence or sequestration, but simply pressure so they restart negotiations,'' Pierre Piccarreta, a representative from the C.G.T. union, told The Associated Press. Workers had detained the director of the plant and his associates. 
 ''At a time when the company is making a profit and distributing dividends to shareholders,'' Mr. Piccarreta said, ''we want to find a favorable outcome for all the workers and know as quickly as possible where we are going.''
 A member of the worker's council, who refused to identify himself, said ''the employees just want a fair deal.'' The move at Caterpillar was at least the third time in the last few weeks that French workers had detained their bosses to protest job losses.
 Caterpillar, which in January and February announced 22,000 job cuts worldwide, is seeking to lay off 733 workers -- about a quarter of the work force -- at its factories in the towns of Grenoble and Echirolles. Combined with those already laid off and those whose short-term contracts will not be renewed, a total of about 1,000 workers at the French factories are losing their jobs. 
 Caterpillar France has said the job cuts were necessary because its order book had been cut in half. 
 Jim Dugan, a spokesman for Caterpillar at the company's headquarters in Peoria, Ill., said he could not immediately comment.
 The Caterpillar dispute marks just the latest incident in which bosses have been held. Workers at a 3M plant in the plant in Pithiviers, in central France, held their boss last week for more than 24 hours in a labor dispute. Workers at a Sony plant in Pontonx-sur-l'Adour, in southwest France, held their boss overnight to gain better severance packages.
 France, with a long history of labor militancy, has becoming increasingly restless as the impact of the global economic crisis deepens. The French unemployment rate rose to 8.3 percent in February, according to the European Union.
 Demonstrations in recent months have drawn millions of protesters to the streets to challenge President Nicolas Sarkozy's handling of the economic crisis. Opponents of Mr. Sarkozy's government say he has focused on bailouts for banks and industrial companies while ignoring the fate of workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (84%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); DISMISSALS (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); DIVIDENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR FRANCE SA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (54%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); PEORIA, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ALPS (73%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



20 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 528 words

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

 BODY:
SPOKES: THEFTS
 May Be Down
 Bike theft and its cousin, bike abandonment, are aspects of urban cycling as sure as broken glass, potholes and the lurking threat of being doored. 
 But while warm weather and the start of the racing season have many saddling up again, the street scenes in some areas -- around Union Square in Manhattan and in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, last Wednesday, for example -- seemed to indicate less fear of theft these days. 
 Perhaps it is justified. According to a ranking by the Kryptonite lock company, New York has fallen from first place on its list of the top 10 worst cities for bike theft. 
 Of course, having one's bike stolen is a part of the urban rider's experience. 
 ''In one way, it's a deeply personal experience, which makes you feel singled out, and which has very real repercussions,'' said Susie Cooley, a television producer and one of the creators of the Web site Someone Stole My Bike, which features video testimonials from riders. 
 ''And on the other hand, you realize that having your bike stolen is almost inevitable, especially in a city like New York,'' she said.
 Official statistics on bike thefts in the city are difficult to come by, in part because the police don't separate bike thefts from other types of petty theft. The Department of Transportation and others studied the problem a decade ago, but have not recently returned to the issue. 
 The Kryptonite company, which makes a ''New York'' line of heavy-duty locks and chains, releases a yearly ranking of the worst cities for bike theft. But the formula and underlying data used for the list are ''proprietary,'' according to a spokeswoman, Karen Rizzo.
 For the past three years, the company said, it has received theft claims most often from three ZIP codes in Lower Manhattan, 10002, 10003 and 10004, and one in Brooklyn, 11217, which includes parts of Downtown Brooklyn, Boerum Hill and Clinton Hill.
 Nevertheless, New York is now behind Philadelphia and Chicago on the ''worst'' list.
 Yet the company said it had no plans to change the name of the ''New York'' product line, or to begin marketing ''Philly'' locks. ''Cyclists all over the U.S. still consider New York to be the toughest place to own and ride a bike,'' Ms. Rizzo wrote in an e-mail message.
 Wiley Norvell of Transportation Alternatives said, ''New York has always been the capital because we have the most bikes. And the most pernicious thieves.''
 J. DAVID GOODMAN ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Bias in Hiring of Waiters: Expensive restaurants in New York discriminate based on race when hiring waiters, according to a study by Marc Bendick Jr., an economist. 
 Mr. Bendick hired 37 people to act as job applicants; they went to 181 restaurants from January 2006 to June 2007.
 Some key findings: 
 Nonwhite job applicants were 54.5 percent as likely as white applicants to get a job offer, and were less likely than white testers to get a job interview in the first place.
 The work experience of white job applicants was less likely to be subject to scrutiny.
 White applicants with slight European accents were 23.1 percent more likely to be hired than white testers with no accent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. DAVID GOODMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); RANKINGS (75%); CRIME STATISTICS (73%); MISDEMEANORS (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); STATISTICS (66%); DISCRIMINATION (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



21 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Japan Tries to Increase Exports

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japanese companies are caught in a double bind, facing markets at home that are shrinking with the population as well as the global downturn. Nevertheless, companies must expand foreign sales aggressively -- or face longer-term decline.
 Exports from the world's No. 2 economy fell an unprecedented 49 percent in February. But even as Japanese policy makers call for a renewed focus on domestic markets, companies are tying themselves more tightly to overseas markets and innovation.
''Japanese companies themselves just don't see a future in the domestic market,'' said Yasuo Yamamoto, senior economist at Mizuho Research Institute. ''They're looking for opportunities overseas instead of investing at home. That makes it almost impossible for Japan to reduce its export dependence.'' 
 Prime Minister Taro Aso announced Tuesday that Japan would put together yet another economic package to stimulate demand, with steps to create jobs and further reduce taxes. Japan has already announced stimulus plans worth 12 trillion yen, or $122 billion, including 2 trillion yen in cash handouts.
 A recovery led by domestic demand will be difficult. Even as the government pumps money into the economy, household spending has continued to decline, falling 3.5 percent in February as unemployment jumped to 4.4 percent, the highest level in two years.
 With the decline in domestic spending, Japanese companies have their eyes fixed overseas despite the fall in exports. A cutback in spending among consumers in the United States, Japan's biggest export market, is simply turning attention toward new foreign markets. The trend is clear in companies across the spectrum.
 Hurt by a global slowdown in sales, Panasonic is set to book a net loss of 380 billion yen, or $3.9 billion, just in the year through March. The electronics company will lay off 15,000 workers. But as part of a new strategy called ''Double-Digit Overseas Growth,'' the company is making products specifically for emerging markets like China and Vietnam. And last month, Panasonic introduced a line of household appliances in Europe.
 It is a similar story for Japan's carmakers. While most auto markets could recover from the global slump as early as next year, vehicle sales in Japan are in decline, hurt by a marked lack of interest in cars among younger Japanese.
 Sales of new cars have slumped by more than half from their peak in 1990. An industry organization expects sales to fall to their lowest since 1977 in the coming fiscal year.
 Even Toyota Motor, which has doubled its overseas sales since 1998, experienced a drop of almost 10 percent in Japanese sales in that period.
 At a recent news conference held by Honda Motor's incoming president, discussions about a recovery in sales inadvertently turned to the United States market.
 ''America will always require cars,'' said Takanobu Ito, who takes the helm at the automaker in June. ''In Japan, consumers aren't finding anything they want to buy.''
 Even companies that previously concentrated on the home market are turning overseas.
 Kirin Holdings, one of Japan's largest breweries, grew rapidly as bubble-era Japanese drank more beer. But consumption peaked in the mid-1990s, hurt by a long economic malaise, an aging population and a shift in consumer tastes toward wine.
 To woo recession-weary consumers, Kirin introduced a cheap, low-malt beer in 1998, and an even cheaper beer-flavored beverage seven years later that did away with malt altogether. Kirin also bought a domestic winemaker. Yet the company still struggled to grow.
 Now Kirin has begun an aggressive buying spree overseas to bolster its foreign sales. It recently announced it would spend $1.26 billion to raise its stake in the beer unit of a Philippine conglomerate, the San Miguel Corporation. That came after Kirin bought National Foods, an Australian company, for $1 billion in 2007.
 ''Australia is an attractive market compared to Japan, because population and income are actually growing there,'' a Kirin spokesman, Makoto Ando, said. (Australians also drink twice as much beer per capita as Japanese.)
 Underlying the rush overseas is the acuteness of Japan's demographic challenges. Japan's population has been falling since 2005, and its working-age population could fall by a third by midcentury.
 The Japanese are also becoming poorer, relatively speaking: Japan's income per capita, once among the top five in the world, slipped to 19th in 2007, far behind the United States and many European countries.
 A mismanaged pension system, cumbersome regulation in sectors like services and health, and a stark frugality adopted by many Japanese during years of economic stagnation are also weighing on spending and darkening the prospects of many companies.
 Prime Minister Aso has tried to lift domestic demand with a series of stimulus measures, but gridlock in the country's Parliament is slowing progress. Moreover, economists say Mr. Aso's plans will be little more than stopgap measures.
 ''Any government spending could support domestic spending, but the effects will be temporary,'' said Hiroshi Shiraishi, a Tokyo-based economist at BNP Paribas. ''Japan faces deeper structural problems.''
 Marketers at a baby goods maker, Unicharm, say they have done everything to keep sales growing despite the falling birthrate and sluggish economy.
 A leading maker of disposable diapers, the company seized on a striking fact: even as the number of babies was falling, the Japanese were keeping more pets. So Unicharm used its diaper technology to develop paper litter sheets for cats and dogs. The company also developed a line of adult diapers for Japan's swelling ranks of the elderly.
 But that will not be enough to stem a downward trend in sales, said a Unicharm spokesman, Yasushi Shiraishi.
 To make up for the shortfall, Unicharm is increasing its sales network in neighboring China. This year, the company plans to increase its sales network to 500 cities across China, from about 300 now. The company has also started selling diapers in Southeast Asia.
 ''Thanks to our efforts, we're not seeing sales fall off precipitously in Japan -- yet. But a decline is inevitable in the long run, so it's important to look overseas,'' Mr. Shiraishi said.
 ''There are 18 million babies born in China every year,'' he said. ''That's 16 times more babies than Japan.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Business was slow in March at the port of Kobe in Japan. Exports fell 49 percent in February. Nevertheless, with Japan's population declining, many companies see exports as their best bet.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVERETT KENNEDY BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (55%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (60%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (51%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (60%); HMC (NYSE) (60%); 7267 (TSE) (60%); TYT (LSE) (51%); TM (NYSE) (51%); 7203 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: TAKANOBU ITO (59%); TARO ASO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) KINKI, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



22 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Havana Biennial, in Which Chelsea Takes a Field Trip to Cuba

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
About 10 minutes after arriving at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes to show her work at the biggest exhibition by American art galleries in Cuba since the 1959 revolution, Delia Brown whispered, only half joking, to her Cuban assistant that the gallery was too hot and that she planned to head back to her hotel. 
 ''I think I've worked hard enough standing here,'' she said, though she had intended to spend some time eavesdropping on Cubans looking at her work to see how they interpreted it. 
 She was standing beside one of her works from the ''Guerrilla Villa'' series, an oil painting of Ms. Brown and her friends posing against the decadent backdrop of a $1,000-a-night resort in St. Bart's. Dressed in bikini tops, camouflage pants and Che berets, the women look stern-faced while drinking Havana Club Rum and eating Skittles. 
 The painting, part of Ms. Brown's ''Guerrilla Lounging'' project, is both an embrace and a critique of the leisure class. And its wry irony could not have been more apropos for the ''Chelsea Visits Havana'' show, which opened on Saturday as part of the 10th Havana Biennial and gives the Cuban art world a look at the New York art scene.
 Ms. Brown, a dozen other American artists and scores of critics and buyers flocked to the island to enjoy themselves, show their wares and, perhaps, offer solidarity to Cuban artists, many of whom were denied travel visas to the United States to sell their work during the eight years of the Bush administration. 
 ''The hope is that this will be a first step toward normalizing U.S.-Cuban relations,'' said the show's organizer Alberto Magnan, who left Cuba when he was 5 and owns the Magnan Projects Gallery in Chelsea with his wife, Dara Metz.
 The biennial, which opened on Friday, runs until April 30 and has attracted works from more than 300 artists and 54 countries. It has given the streets of Havana an almost carnivalesque air. 
 At the Palacio de Bellas Artes, children gathered on Sunday to gawk in disgusted fascination at an outdoor installation by the Cuban artist Roberto Fabelo called ''Survivors.'' It consists of more than 10 giant cockroach sculptures, with human faces, crawling up the side of the building. 
 Near the bus terminal about 50 tattooed and scruffy skateboarders spent much of Sunday participating in a performance piece called ''Skate My Patria,'' created by the Puerto Rican-born artist Sofia Maldonado. After designing dozens of skateboards, Ms. Maldonado handed them out at a vibrantly painted skate ramp that she had built. In return for the skateboards, Cuban skaters shared personal narratives about their lives on the island that Ms. Maldonado recorded for another project. The day also featured a freestyle biking and skateboarding competition. 
 ''Especially for young people, we have to create the way we can,'' said one Cuban skater, who asked for anonymity because he said he did not want to be pegged as a dissident. ''In the U.S., it's graffiti. Here we skate.''
 The biennial's theme is ''Integration and Resistance in the Global Age,'' which means that many of the artists at least loosely address issues of globalization, immigration and the economy.
 Most of the works are being shown at Fortaleza de San Carlos de la Cabana, a cavernous fortress built by the Spanish beginning in 1763.
 A piece by the Cuban artist Alexandre Arrechea consists of a spinelike metal device that contracts or expands in sync (though not quite in real time) with the fluctuations of the Dow Jones industrial average. 
 Annalee Davis's installation ''Just Beyond My Imagination'' is a fake golf course with sand traps shaped like the Caribbean islands. Ms. Davis is from Barbados, and her piece is a sly take on how the region is used as a romping ground by wealthier nations. A painting by Jules de Balincourt hints at the Cubans who have fled the country in its depiction of rappers navigating a boat past an unidentified city. 
 Globalization has a special relevance for the island's artists. Before the Bush administration stopped giving visas, many of Cuba's top artists spent months at a time in the United States or Europe. They stayed linked to the island partly because collectors are typically more interested in works produced by Cuban-based -- not immigrant -- artists. 
 Now, with a new administration in Washington, many in the art world say they believe that there will be a loosening on restrictions, and that the Cuban art market will benefit. 
 ''Cuba knows about the fight for independence from bigger powers and bigger forces,'' said Alexis Leyva Machado, known as Kcho, one of Cuba's most famous artists. For his contribution Kcho (pronounced ''KAH-cho'') installed a carousel with sculptured representations of Cuban history, including wooden models of the U.S.S. Maine, a slave ship and the Granma, the boat that was used to transport Castro and his revolutionary fighters to Cuba in 1956.
 Kcho was also in charge of bringing scores of young artists from every Cuban province to Havana, a first for many of them, to show their work. ''Part of integration for us means making sure that no one is left out, especially on the island,'' he said.
 Ms. Brown said she too hoped to make a subtle political point with her ''Guerrilla Lounging'' project, although it's hard to tell if she is at all serious.
 ''It's basically a critique of the all-encompassing nature of capitalism,'' she said. Ms. Brown, who is filming her trip to Cuba, explained that she was working on a video to pitch a reality show about artists. 
 With funds from the Fundacion Amistad, a nonprofit organization based in the United States that promotes exchanges and understanding between Americans and Cubans, the Chelsea exhibition includes works by 30 artists from more than two dozen galleries, including Jack Shainman, Loretta Lux, Charles Cowles and Lehmann Maupin. 
 Among the pieces on exhibit is Doug Young's ''Nuclear Launch Center,'' a pea-soup green desk that looks like one from the Arizona nuclear silo.
 Next to it stands ''New Mount Rushmore,'' by Long-Bin Chen, made out of New York telephone directories, which adds President Obama to the usual quartet of presidents. 
 The artist Duke Riley, who arrived in Havana at the beginning of March to organize a St. Patrick's Day parade, takes a different course. ''I like making friends,'' he said, ''but I also like messing with folks.'' 
 An eccentric bon vivant, Mr. Riley is best known for his commentary on homeland security. (He built a model of a Colonial-era boat said to be the first submarine and was arrested as he floated up to the Queen Mary 2 when it visited New York Harbor.)
 Here, he organized the parade down O'Reilly Street in Old Havana partly to highlight the role the Irish had in Cuban history, he said, but also to see if it was any more difficult to get permission to march here than in the United States. 
 ''Imagine if a North Korean citizen showed up in Washington and suddenly said he wanted to organize a parade to commemorate some random holiday of his choosing,'' Mr. Riley said. ''How long do you think it would take to get permission?'' 
 It took him a week to persuade Cuban officials to let him have the event. On the day of the parade he put the island's most famous transvestite, Farah, at the head of the march to see if officials would stop it. They did not, and some of the security guards assigned to the event actually joined in the dancing when the bagpipes were played. 
 ''It just goes to show that you can have a little fun while you're trying to push the envelope,'' Mr. Riley said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Delia Brown, with one of her ''Guerrilla Villa'' works, at Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Alexis Leyva Machado, a k a Kcho, above, setting up a carousel in Old Havana for the biennial. At left, Roberto Fabelo's ''Survivors'' consists of giant cockroach sculptures with human faces. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%); SKATEBOARDING (63%); EXTREME SPORTS (60%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



23 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Too Costly to Keep, Boats Become Castaways

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: MOUNT PLEASANT, S.C. 

 BODY:
Boat owners are abandoning ship.
 They often sandpaper over the names and file off the registry numbers, doing their best to render the boats, and themselves, untraceable. Then they casually ditch the vessels in the middle of busy harbors, beach them at low tide on the banks of creeks or occasionally scuttle them outright. 
 The bad economy is creating a flotilla of forsaken boats. While there is no national census of abandoned boats, officials in coastal states are worried the problem will only grow worse as unemployment and financial stress continue to rise. Several states are even drafting laws against derelicts and say they are aggressively starting to pursue delinquent owners.
 ''Our waters have become dumping grounds,'' said Maj. Paul R. Ouellette of the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. ''It's got to the point where something has to be done.'' 
 Derelict boats are environmental and navigational hazards, leaking toxins and posing obstacles for other craft, especially at night. Thieves plunder them for scrap metal. In a storm, these runabouts and sailboats, cruisers and houseboats can break free or break up, causing havoc.
 Some of those disposing of their boats are in the same bind as overstretched homeowners: they face steep payments on an asset that is diminishing in value and decide not to continue. They either default on the debt or take bolder measures.
 Marina and maritime officials around the country say they believe, however, that most of the abandoned vessels cluttering their waters are fully paid for. They are expensive-to-maintain toys that have lost their appeal. 
 The owners cannot sell them, because the secondhand market is overwhelmed. They cannot afford to spend hundreds of dollars a month mooring and maintaining them. And they do not have the thousands of dollars required to properly dispose of them.
 When Brian A. Lewis of Seattle tried to sell his boat, Jubilee, no one would pay his asking price of $28,500. Mr. Lewis told the police that maintaining the boat caused ''extreme anxiety,'' which led him to him drill a two-inch hole in Jubilee's hull last March. 
 The boat sank in Puget Sound, and Mr. Lewis told his insurance company it was an accident. His scheme came undone when the state, seeking to prevent environmental damage, raised Jubilee. Mr. Lewis pleaded guilty last week to insurance fraud.
 While there are no reliable national statistics on boating fraud, Todd Schwede, an insurance investigator in San Diego, said the number of suspicious cases he was handling had roughly tripled in the last year, to around 70.
 In many cases, he said, the boater is following this logic: ''I am overinsured on this boat. If I make it go away so no one will find it, the insurance company will give me enough to cover the debt and I'll make something on the deal as well.''
 Lt. David Dipre, who coordinates Florida's derelict vessel program, said the handful of owners he had managed to track down were guilty more of negligence than fraud. ''They say, 'I had a dream of sailing around the world, I just never got around to it.' Then they have some bad times and they leave it to someone else to clean up the mess,'' Lieutenant Dipre said.
 Florida officials say they are moving more aggressively to track down owners and are also starting to unclog the local inlets, harbors, swamps and rivers. The state appropriated funds to remove 118 derelicts this summer, up from only a handful last year. 
 In South Carolina, four government investigators started canvassing the state's waterways in January. They quickly identified 150 likely derelicts. 
 ''There are a lot more than we thought there would be,'' said Lt. Robert McCullough of the state Department of Natural Resources. ''There were a few boats that have always been there, and now all of a sudden they've added up and added up.''
 In January, it became illegal in South Carolina to abandon a boat on a public waterway. Violators can be fined $5,000 and jailed for 30 days.
 ''We never needed a law before,'' said Gary Santos, a Mount Pleasant councilman.
 Not that having one is necessarily proving much of a deterrent. Mr. Santos took a spin on a friend's motorboat the other day and saw a newly abandoned catamaran within seconds of leaving the dock. 
 It had been run aground at an awkward angle, a weathered ''for sale'' sign testament to the owner's inability to get rid of it. Local watermen said the boat had abruptly appeared one day in February, and had not been touched in weeks. 
 ''Boats are luxuries,'' Mr. Santos said. ''This isn't a good moment for luxuries.''
 South Carolina's unemployment rate in February was 11 percent, the second-highest in the nation after Michigan. The online classified ad service Craigslist in Charleston, S.C., features dozens of boats for sale every day. ''Wife's employer is downsizing and we are forced to do the same,'' read one post.
 Mr. Santos, 50, grew up in this well-to-do community on the northern side of Charleston harbor. In his youth, he never saw an abandoned boat. As recently as a decade ago, they were no more than an occasional nuisance.
 Now they are proliferating. Crab Bank, a protected bird rookery in the harbor within sight of Fort Sumter, is home to a dozen derelicts -- two sunken, two beached, the other eight still afloat. They range from houseboats to a two-masted sailboat.
 State officers have placed placards on each, warning that the vessels have been identified as abandoned. Thanks to a local ordinance sponsored by Mr. Santos, the Mount Pleasant police are also tagging the vessels. After 45 days, they will be removed and junked. 
 California is taking a more benign approach, with plans in the Legislature for a boater bailout of sorts. Under a law proposed by State Representative Ted Lieu, owners of marginally seaworthy vessels would be encouraged to surrender them to the state. If they abandoned the boat, the bill would double the fine to $1,000.
 The legislature passed the bill last year, but Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger returned it and many others unsigned during the state's long struggle to settle on a budget. The measure has been reintroduced this year, and unanimously passed the assembly's transportation committee last week and could become law as early as this summer.
 Kevin Ketchum, general manager of California Yacht Marina, which operates six marinas in the state, predicted that the law ''is going to be phenomenally popular. It will help honorable people who want to do the right thing but can't afford it.'' 
 The cost of the disposals would be paid by existing fees on boat owners. Mr. Lieu said that ''in a perfect world'' the fear of punishment would be enough to get people to stop abandoning boats. 
 ''But to actually enforce that would take way more governmental resources than we have,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An abandoned sailboat resting on the marshy banks of Hobcaw Creek in Mount Pleasant, S.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRETT FLASHNICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Gary Santos, a Mount Pleasant, S.C., councilman, checks a state notice on a forsaken sailboat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRETT FLASHNICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); INSURANCE (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (84%); BOATING & RAFTING (79%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); HOME PRICES (71%); WILDLIFE (69%); INSURANCE FRAUD (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); CENSUS (57%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



24 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: The G-20 and the Danger of Protectionism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Grand Bargain'' (editorial, March 26): 
 You are right to worry about a protectionist blowup if leaders of the Group of 20 biggest economies cannot agree on how to respond to the global economic crisis. We need only look to the 1930s to see where such a downward spiral leads. 
 What the world needs now is closer international cooperation. It is not the time for casting blame on others or for dreaming up creative ways to use trade barriers as a tool to achieve unrelated policy objectives.
 We're all in this together. The United States, Europe and the rest of the G-20 need to agree on policies that keep markets open, deliver the necessary boost to our flagging economies and ensure we can build a better future for the next generation.
 Peter M. Robinson President and Chief Executive United States Council for International Business New York, March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTECTIONISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS (54%); US COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



25 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Barclays in Talks With CVC to Sell iShares Unit

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Barclays is in exclusive negotiations with the private equity firm CVC Capital Partners to sell a part of its fund management business, iShares, for about $4.3 billion in an effort to shore up its capital without handing a stake to the government. 
 The bank said Tuesday that it planned to keep the portion of iShares' business in which it lends shares and other securities to hedge funds or other investors to facilitate short-selling. 
 Barclays, which rejected government money on Monday for the second time in the last six months, could reach an agreement as early as the end of this week to sell its exchange-traded funds business for about $4.3 billion, said a person with direct knowledge of the negotiations who declined to be identified because the talks were private. Barclays would provide CVC with some financing for the deal, the person said 
 Barclay's chief executive, John Varley, said the management made the decision after looking ''carefully at the economics of participation, and we have talked to many investors.'' Barclays said previously that it hoped to avoid tapping government funds to keep its independence. 
 But some analysts warned earlier that selling iShares, which is based in San Francisco and part of the Barclays Global Investors, was like selling the family silver and could hurt the sustainability of the bank's earnings. Barclays shares fell 1.5 percent in London on Tuesday afternoon after rising as much as 7 percent in the morning. 
 The president of Barclays, Robert E. Diamond, and other employees of Barclays Global Investors are set to benefit from a sale of the unit because they own options in the business as part of a share incentive scheme.
 For CVC, the purchase would be the first major acquisition of a financial services business. The firm was previously interested in buying Royal Bank of Scotland's British insurance assets but talks ended. Other companies that were interested in iShares included Bain Capital, Hellman & Friedman and Goldman Sachs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (74%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (64%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (55%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); RBS (NYSE) (64%); RBS (LSE) (64%); RBS (AMS) (64%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (74%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN VARLEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



26 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: British Forces Transfer Command in Southern Iraq to U.S. as Bomb Kills 7 in North

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON and SAM DAGHER; Campbell Robertson and Tareq Maher contributed reporting from Basra, Iraq, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Mosul.

DATELINE: BASRA, Iraq 

 BODY:
After six years as America's staunchest ally in the Iraq war, Britain handed over command of Basra Province to the American military on Tuesday, marking the first step in the withdrawal of most of Britain's 4,100 remaining troops.
 On the same day as the transfer in Iraq's south, a suicide truck bomber killed at least 7 people and wounded 38 in the fractious northern city of Mosul, underscoring the uneven nature of the security gains in the country. 
 At its height, Britain's commitment to Iraq reached more than 40,000 service members, but with the war increasingly unpopular at home and military resources stretched thin by a growing deployment to Afghanistan, Britain has gradually been reducing its presence in Basra. 
 With the end of the British-led southeast division on Tuesday, Basra became the headquarters of a new division for American-led forces that stretches all the way from Baghdad's southern suburbs to the Kuwaiti border, encompassing Iraq's nine southern provinces. 
 Basra, Iraq's second-largest city, prides itself on being a cosmopolitan port city, a gateway to the Persian Gulf and Iraq's engine of economic development because of the vast oil reserves nearby. Basra Province has further strategic significance as the land route to Kuwait for American forces as they withdraw over the next 17 months.
 At a ceremony at a civilian air terminal on Tuesday, during which Winston Churchill was quoted liberally, British, American and Iraqi officials trumpeted the security gains in Basra over the past year and hailed its potential as a capital of commerce.
 ''I am grateful not only for the outstanding accomplishments of the brave troopers of the United Kingdom,'' said Gen. Ray Odierno, the top American commander in Iraq, ''but for the courage and selfless dedication of all the United Kingdom forces who served in Iraq and for the unwavering commitment of the British people in the cause of liberty around the world.''
 Under the terms of an agreement with the Iraqi government, Britain ceases combat operations on May 31; until then, British troops will be under the command of an American, Maj. Gen. Michael L. Oates.
 While all British combat forces must be withdrawn by July 31, 300 to 400 British troops will remain to train Iraqi forces, British military officials said. 
 American forces will begin arriving in greater numbers in Basra as the British drawdown proceeds. General Oates estimated that by the end of the summer around 5,000 American troops would have joined the nearly 2,000 already here, most of them training the Iraqi police and border patrol agents.
 Under an agreement between the United States and Iraq, all American combat troops are to be out of Iraqi cities by the end of June, though the details of that are still being worked out in Baghdad, and all forces are to leave Iraq by the end of 2011. President Obama has ordered the withdrawal of all combat forces by August 2010. 
 Along the waterfront boulevards of Basra, which is much busier and safer than it was last year, the transfer was met largely with indifference. Many people credited the improved security to the Iraqi Army, which led a major operation last spring to clean the city of militants loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr.
 On Monday evening at the Tistahel al-Basrah, a garishly decorated floating restaurant on the Shatt al Arab waterway, Ali Ibrahim, the manager, watched a steady stream of customers arrive, proof of Basra's newfound security.
 The successes in Basra were achieved because of cooperation between the British, Iraqi and American armies, Mr. Ibrahim said. But, like so many other residents here, he noted the differences between the British and American forces. The Americans have been good at attacking militias, but bad at dealing with civilians; the British are easygoing with civilians, but too passive in facing up to extremists, he said.
 ''We need the two features in one army,'' he said, adding, ''I prefer the Iraqi Army.'' 
 In Mosul on Tuesday, the suicide truck bomber attacked the headquarters of a unit of the local police force in the early morning, witnesses and security officials said.
 A police officer at a checkpoint on the perimeter of the building said that a man driving a large flatbed truck normally used for transporting construction materials had approached the rear gate and asked him if he could make a U-turn. The front entrance to the headquarters, like the entrances of most government buildings, was barricaded with tall concrete blast walls.
 After the truck was permitted to enter, it drove to the building's courtyard, and its payload detonated, the police officer said.
 A municipal cleaning crew was working near the building's back entrance at the moment of the explosion. ''We were sweeping the street and suddenly we saw a ball of fire and there was an explosion,'' said Salwan Ahmed, 18, one of the cleaners. ''It knocked us off our feet.'' 
 Despite numerous American and Iraqi military operations, Mosul, the capital of Nineveh Province, remains a center for the insurgency. Since Thursday, at least 29 people have been killed and 85 wounded in violence in the city and its outskirts.
 The situation in Mosul is further complicated by its nearness to the poorly controlled Syrian border and by a bitter political struggle between the province's staunchly nationalist Sunni Arab leaders, made up of tribal chiefs and former loyalists of Saddam Hussein, and their Kurdish opponents. Arabs accuse Kurds of seeking to annex many parts of the province adjacent to the semiautonomous Kurdistan region.
 About 5,000 American troops remain in Nineveh, where Iraqi Army and national police units dispatched from Baghdad are largely in the forefront of combating the insurgency. Many Iraqi and American military leaders believe that the local police force in Mosul remains for the most part ineffectual and infiltrated by insurgents. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: British service members lowered the Union Jack and the Iraqi flag on Tuesday after Britain handed the command of Basra Province to United States forces, a step in Britain's withdrawal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEHAD NGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: RAY ODIERNO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (75%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



27 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Finance Chief At Facebook Is Leaving

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
Facebook, the fast-growing online social network, said Tuesday its chief financial officer, Gideon Yu, was leaving the company. 
 Mr. Yu is a well-regarded Silicon Valley veteran with experience at Google, YouTube and Yahoo. Facebook, which is privately held, did not offer an explanation for his departure but said it had hired an executive search firm to find a successor with experience in running a public company. 
 Mr. Yu raised Facebook's last round of financing in 2007, which included an investment from Microsoft valuing it at $15 billion. But Mr. Yu had trouble raising more money at an equivalent valuation -- money the company needs to cover escalating technology costs. Facebook has also been trying to build an advertising business in a tough economy. 
 ''Gideon has played an important role in helping us achieve our financial success, building a strong finance team and establishing the core financial operations of our company,'' a Facebook spokeswoman, Brandee Barker, said in a statement. ''We are grateful to Gideon for his contributions to Facebook and what we are trying to accomplish.''
 Mr. Yu declined to comment on his departure.
 Perhaps seeking to avoid further conjecture about its finances, Facebook took the opportunity to release limited information about its business. The company said that it beat internal projections in the latest quarter, and that it was on track to increase revenue by 70 percent this year. It also said it had just completed its fifth quarter in a row of profitability in terms of Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). 
 Larry Yu, a Facebook spokesman who is not related to Gideon Yu, said the company did not need to raise more cash to get to profitability but would entertain the idea. ''It's all going to be a function of valuation and a valuation we are happy with,'' he said. Mr. Yu said Facebook had no immediate plans for an initial offering.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EBITDA (86%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); EQUITY FINANCING (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



28 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: A Little Humor? There's a Lot Riding on It

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE battle for the minds, and throats, of consumers who drink lower-calorie beverages is intensifying as a leading brand enters the category.
 Glaceau Vitaminwater, sold by a unit of the Coca-Cola Company, is bringing out on Thursday a low-calorie line called Vitaminwater10. The number refers to the calories in each eight-ounce serving and compares with 50 calories in an eight-ounce serving of the regular varieties of Vitaminwater.
 Vitaminwater is the leading brand in the so-called enhanced-water segment of the beverage market, according to the trade publication Beverage Digest. And even with the recession, sales of Vitaminwater rose an estimated 37 percent last year from 2007, said John D. Sicher, editor and publisher of Beverage Digest. 
 But as consumers become more weight-conscious, the lack of a lower-calorie version of Vitaminwater had become problematic for the brand -- particularly since many of its fans are women. And the calorie chasm between eight ounces of Vitaminwater (50 calories) and eight ounces of vitaminless water (0 calories) loomed large.
 ''Every major brand today needs a no- or low-calorie version,'' Mr. Sicher said. ''Gatorade proved that with G2, which was quite successful.''
 His reference was to the lower-calorie version of Gatorade, introduced last year by a unit of PepsiCo. G2 was the top new food product of 2008, according to the annual New Product Pacesetters report from the research firm Information Resources Inc., generating sales of $159.1 million.
 Glaceau will spend an estimated $40 million to $50 million on a campaign to introduce Vitaminwater10. The multimedia campaign includes ads on television, in print, online, outdoors and in mass transit. There will also be signs in stores, events and promotions like a one-day ''pop-up'' gymnasium in Manhattan.
 The campaign is among many from big marketers that are proceeding with ambitious expansion efforts even as the recession has disrupted the best-laid plans of hundreds of companies.
 Vitaminwater10 joins a growing list of new offerings coming to stores. Others include the Fling candy bar, being sold by a division of Mars; products like G2 and Giant Cheetos snacks, from PepsiCo; Pepperidge Farm Vitality Breads, sold by the Campbell Soup Company; and Olay Professional Pro-X skin care products, from Procter & Gamble.
 ''If you give people what they want, and make it relevant to their daily routine, they will continue to buy your products, even in a recession,'' said Rohan Oza, chief marketing officer for hydration at Glaceau in Whitestone, N.Y.
 The genesis of the new line was ''a lot of consumer feedback showing there was a whole new audience beyond our existing audience that wanted to be part of the Vitaminwater franchise,'' he added.
 One main ingredient to the change was the introduction of a blend of sweeteners from the stevia plant, which is used to make the lower-calorie version of Vitaminwater.
 ''When we cracked the code on the sweetener late last year,'' Mr. Oza said, ''we felt we had to bring this out in a big way.'' 
 Mr. Sicher said the advent of ''the new natural sweeteners'' like stevia, ''makes it easier for brands like Vitaminwater, which are sold with a natural proposition, to come out with low-calorie beverages.'' Previously, consumers have balked if such brands used artificial sweeteners.
 The campaign for Vitaminwater10 adopts the humorous tone in pitches for regular Vitaminwater. For instance, posters in New York City subway cars mimic transit ads for language courses (''Learn low calorie''), martial arts schools (''I will teach you the art of great taste and 10 calories!'') and dermatologists (''Dr. Low Cal'').
 (The Vitaminwater10 campaign is the second in a month to play off the dermatologists in subway ads, like Dr. Jonathan Zizmor. Posters for Snickers candy, sold by Mars, urge hungry snack-lovers to ''schedule a consultation with Dr. Feedzmore.'') 
 Like the subway posters, television commercials for Vitaminwater10 also feature a make-believe business, Water Inc. The chief executive is Mother Nature, who oversees an office staff of human and animal workers.
 Vitaminwater10 is ''cutting into our market share,'' Mother Nature frets in one commercial. In another spot, she declares, ''We need to take back our competitive edge.''
 Her worries are explained by the theme of the commercials: ''New Vitaminwater10. It's one-upped nature.''
 The premise is an attempt ''to showcase the news and information about the product in a way that isn't dry facts,'' said Emma Cookson, chief executive at the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, which recently became the lead creative agency for Vitaminwater and Vitaminwater10. 
 Water Inc. is meant to be ''a frustrated, slightly inept made-up competitor company who suddenly has to contend with this new arrival,'' she added. ''And hilarity ensues.''
 Although the campaign is light-hearted, Vitaminwater10 represents a new direction for the brand, Ms. Cookson said, and is thus ''a big deal.''
 The goal is to be ''very clear and direct'' about the new product, she added, ''in a tone and style that's true to this brand: slightly quirky, personable and approachable.''
 Mr. Oza described Water Inc. as ''a fictitious company where 'The Office' meets Animal Planet.''
 The commercials ''do a great job delivering the humor everyone wants these days,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Vitaminwater10 subway ad mocks more traditional ads found on New York subways. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); SPORTS DRINKS (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); PUBLISHING (70%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (93%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (80%); INFORMATION RESOURCES INC (66%); PEPSICO INC (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (93%); CPB (NYSE) (80%); PEP (NYSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (93%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (80%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (80%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



29 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: No More Hummer Nation

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 You know you're in trouble when Old Europe chastises you for being too socialist. But, hey, nobody's perfect -- except maybe Michelle Obama, who landed in London with a huge Obama entourage, wearing a daffodil yellow dress and looking like a confident ray of U.S.A. sunshine.
 As President Obama renegotiates the terms of American leadership this week in Europe, those of us left at home struggle to get over our affluenza. That condition, the bane of the middle class, is defined in a book of the same name as ''a painful, contagious, socially transmitted condition of overload, debt, anxiety and waste resulting from the dogged pursuit of more.'' 
 The president is obviously worried about leaving us alone and under the economic weather; that must be why his Department of Health and Human Services put up some advice Tuesday on its Web site about ''Getting Through Tough Economic Times.''
 ''Economic turmoil (e.g., increased unemployment, foreclosures, loss of investments and other financial distress) can result in a whole host of negative health effects -- both physical and mental,'' the government Web page sympathized, offering warning signs such as ''persistent sadness/crying'' and ''excessive irritability/anger'' and tips for managing stress, including: ''Trying to keep things in perspective -- recognize the good aspects of life and retain hope for the future.'' And one particularly useful for Rick Wagoner and those of us in the newspaper business: Develop new employment skills.
 It even went so far as to list suicide warning signs that sagely included ''looking for ways to kill oneself.''
 I heard a French scientist on a radio show once explain that Americans would always insist on supersizing things because our ''reptilian brain'' likes things big. We're still big, as Norma Desmond said. It's everything around us that's collapsing and shrinking. 
 The Wall Street Journal had an article last week reporting that, now that gas prices have gone back down, almost half a million fuel-frugal small cars are piling up unsold at dealers around the country.
 ''I don't think Americans really like small cars,'' Beau Boeckmann, a Ford dealer in California, told The Journal. ''They drive them when they think they have to, when gas prices are high. But we're big people, and we like big cars.''
 That's the big nettle we're grasping. How big do we need to be to still feel American? How big can our national debt grow? How big can our cars be? And how big is our clout abroad these days? Will Michelle's style in Europe make as big a splash as Carla Bruni-Sarkozy's?
 The cowboy push by W. and Dick Cheney to be a hyperpower and an empire left America a weakened and tapped-out power, straining to defend its runaway capitalism even as it uneasily adapts to its desperation socialism.
 How do we come to terms with the gluttony that exploded our economy and still retain our reptilian American desire for living large? How do we make the pursuit of the American dream a satisfying quest rather than a selfish one?
 Many people were wringing their hands about the president forcing the resignation of Wagoner, whose G.M. lost $82 billion in the last four years, took $13.4 billion in bailout money and asked for $16.6 billion more, even as the carmaker's market share melted from 33 percent to 18 percent and its stock slid from more than $70 a share to less than $4 -- about the price of a couple gallons of gas.
 But Mr. Obama's move was bracing, a sign, at long last, that the president will not tolerate failure, not when he has to print all the money in the universe to underwrite obtuseness. Wagoner showed no foresight or willingness to curb an unhealthy appetite for the big. He failed to eliminate brands and launched the Hummer line in 2001. (Hummers remain icons of power in Iraq.)
 ''I thought it was absolutely bizarre,'' said Maryann Keller, an independent automotive analyst, adding that ''it was aimed at people who didn't know what to do with the money they had. It was discretionary spending by males who clearly had other cars in their garages.''
 Wagoner stuck to gas-guzzling pickups and S.U.V.'s long after it was clear that higher gas prices meant he should vary the fleet with more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 The Iran hostage crisis in 1979 put America on notice that future relations with the Middle East would be volatile and that we had better get some methadone or ethanol or switch grass or something and get over our addiction to oil.
 But Detroit defiantly stuck its head in the sand. A lot of longtime auto watchers felt relief and excitement at Wagoner's crisp dismissal, knowing that the reckoning is at last here. The problems in the car industry have been so apparent for so long, and the failure to face up to them and move into a greener future has been so frustrating.
 President Obama must nurse us through our affluenza, addressing both our visceral need to be big and our cerebral decision to be leaner -- and much, much smarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (84%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); FORECLOSURE (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); SUICIDE (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); WEB SITES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%)

COMPANY: NORMA AS (64%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (64%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); CARLA BRUNI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



30 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Recession? Not in Albany

 BODY:
Despite all of the talk of shared sacrifice and of not filling in long-term gaps with short-term federal stimulus dollars, Gov. David Paterson of New York and other Democratic leaders have produced a budget that is now up to $131 billion -- a whopping $10 billion more than last year's. This budget also is as crammed full of favors as anything written in Albany for many years. 
 Republicans who are now in the minority and had almost no voice in the secretive budget negotiations are calling it simply: ''The Big Ugly.''
 Democrats, who control all three branches of government, appear to have the votes to get their way. So the only hope here is that the few reforms tucked into this document -- which, when stacked, is more than a foot high -- will actually take root and save money, as promised, in the years ahead. It is a fragile hope, of course. Future reforms in Albany too often remain forever in the future, like a fiscal mirage that is always two or three years away.
 Democratic leaders did manage to do some good. The draconian and counterproductive Rockefeller drug laws are being reformed to give judges more leeway in sentencing drug users. Empty or underused upstate prisons are going to be closed, and the scandalously mismanaged Empire Zone program -- which cost the state $600 million last year and was meant to develop businesses in needy areas -- is being revamped (again mostly in the future). The budget also imposes a 5-cent redemption fee on water bottles -- good for revenue and the environment -- and requires bottlers to pay the state for all bottles that are not redeemed.
 New York has long needed a fairer tax system. Suburban property taxes are astronomical, and the income-tax rate is the same percentage for anyone making more than $40,000 a year. Some gradual increase in the income tax rate is necessary, and these new tax increases for households earning $300,000 a year and up will help deal with a $17 billion deficit. 
 We would feel a lot better if the Democratic lawmakers also showed a willingness to control their spending. They haven't. A large part of the deficit will be filled with $6.2 billion in federal stimulus money -- the very definition of a short-term fix for a long-term problem. 
 The stimulus aid helped keep education funds level, but many of the governor's proposed cuts to Medicaid were restored after protests from powerful unions.
 The lawmakers still have $170 million for pet projects, the same as last year. Some of those projects are vital, like legal services and senior centers. There also were the Urban Yoga Foundation, the Utica Curling Club and numerous gun clubs that get taxpayer money. 
 What has become disturbingly clear is that Governor Paterson has handed over much of New York's considerable power and enormous budget to the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, whose view of good government is one that spreads money around to Democratic friends in need. After facing withering ads from health workers and criticism from teachers, Mr. Paterson has now agreed to a budget that Mr. Silver and those special-interest critics (and longtime Democratic contributors) should be able to live with. The real question is whether the rest of us can.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); DRUG POLICY (71%); TAX REFORM (71%); TAX LAW (71%); MEDICAID (69%); TAX INCREASES (67%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



31 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Agree on a Health Plan; Now Comes the Hard Part

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Efforts to overhaul the health care system have moved ahead rapidly, with the insurance industry making several major concessions and the chairmen of five Congressional committees reaching a consensus on the main ingredients of legislation.
 The chairmen, all Democrats, agree that everyone must carry insurance and that employers should be required to help pay for it. They also agree that the government should offer a public health insurance plan as an alternative to private insurance.
 But members of Congress are just now turning to the most explosive issues, which could delay or derail the process. 
 They have yet to tackle the question of how to pay for coverage of the uninsured. 
 They have not wrestled with vehement Republican objections to the idea of a new government-run insurance plan, competing directly with private insurers. 
 And they have not figured out the role of state insurance regulators, who enforce hundreds of state laws mandating coverage of a myriad of items, including infertility treatments, prostate cancer screening and acupuncture.
 ''There's too much happy talk,'' said Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia. ''It's time to start thrashing out decisions on the tough issues.''
 The White House, displaying a surprisingly light touch, has encouraged Democrats in Congress to make the hard decisions while the administration holds forums around the country to hear suggestions from ordinary citizens.
 Congressional leaders have set an ambitious timetable, under which the House and the Senate would vote on separate bills by the end of July. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, has kept the heat on negotiators.
 President Obama's pick for secretary of health and human services, Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas, told senators at a hearing on Tuesday that ''health reform would be my mission'' if the Senate confirmed her nomination. Ms. Sebelius backed Mr. Obama's call for giving Americans the option of a government health plan as an alternative to private coverage -- ''a public option, side by side with private insurers,'' she said.
 Nancy-Ann DeParle, director of the White House Office for Health Reform, who is on Capitol Hill almost every day, said, ''In my view, there's been a steady progression toward getting a health care reform bill done this year, as the president has urged and requested.''
 Asked if she had recommended any specific policy options to Congress, Ms. DeParle said, ''That has not come up yet.''
 Since last fall, Senate Democrats have been meeting regularly with consumer advocates and lobbyists for the health care, insurance and pharmaceutical industries. The talks have narrowed the differences. 
 In November, two weeks after the presidential election, the health insurance industry said it would accept all applicants, regardless of illness or disability, if Congress required everyone to have coverage. The industry went a step further last week, offering to end the practice of charging higher premiums to sick people in the individual insurance market.
 But each point of agreement raises a host of questions. The government cannot require people to have insurance if they cannot afford it, so lawmakers must decide: Who would get subsidies? How much? And if the government subsidizes insurance, should it also prescribe the items and services that must be covered -- the specific benefits or their overall value?
 Leading the effort on Capitol Hill are the five committee chairmen, Representatives George Miller and Henry A. Waxman of California and Charles B. Rangel of New York, Senator Max Baucus of Montana and Mr. Kennedy.
 The serious negotiations are being conducted in a secretive process that looks a little like the one that President Bill Clinton and the first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, used to devise their ill-fated plan for universal health insurance in 1993. 
 To be sure, the players are different this year. Congress, rather than the White House, has taken the lead in drafting a proposal to reorder one-sixth of the nation's economy. Ms. DeParle, the White House official, said: ''My job is to work with members of Congress. They are the ones doing the hard work. We are providing technical assistance. We help them with the nuts and bolts.'' 
 And whereas the Clintons attacked special interests and excluded them from policy-making deliberations, Kennedy aides have welcomed them to twice-weekly meetings of stakeholders, known as the ''workhorse group.''
 Still, including the lobbyists in the negotiations does not guarantee that they will support whatever emerges. ''The lobbyists talk more gently,'' Mr. Rockefeller said, ''but could be just as lethal to health care reform as they were 15 years ago.''
 Mr. Baucus, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, periodically summons senators to his office for meetings of the ''board of directors,'' a group of six Democrats and five Republicans mulling ways to steer health legislation through the Senate.
 Democrats insist that consumers should have a choice between private insurance and a government health plan. Private insurers will hold down costs and improve care if they have to compete with a public plan, said the House Democratic leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland. 
 But Republicans say a government plan would have unfair advantages and could drive private insurers from the market. 
 Lobbyists and Congressional aides have discussed a possible compromise: Congress would authorize a new government-run insurance program, but it would come into existence only if certain conditions were met -- if, for example, private insurers failed to rein in health costs by a certain amount after several years. Such a condition would serve as a strong incentive for insurers to ratchet down payments to doctors and hospitals.
 Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the chairman of a 21-member group that is shaping health policy for House Republicans, said he saw the Medicare prescription drug benefit as a model, ''a good pattern of how a competitive marketplace works.'' 
 The drug benefit is delivered entirely by private insurers under contract with the federal government, which supervises their activities. Costs have been far lower than originally expected.
 The 2003 Medicare law allowed the government to establish a prescription drug plan in any geographic area with fewer than two private plans. But insurers, seeing a lucrative business opportunity, rushed into the market, and the government never had to establish a plan of its own.
 The cost of universal coverage is likely to be one of the most difficult issues. Democrats readily concede that their proposals will be expensive. 
 In his budget, Mr. Obama showed he was serious when he asked Congress to set aside more than $600 billion as a down payment on efforts to remake the health care system over the next 10 years, partly by limiting the income tax deductions that the most affluent taxpayers claim. 
 Neither the House nor the Senate has accepted Mr. Obama's specific proposals. Both chambers are expected to vote later this week on spending plans that would allow Congress to move forward on health legislation, provided it does not increase the deficit.
 The leading Democratic proposals would not only subsidize the purchase of private insurance, but also expand Medicaid, to cover more poor people, and Medicare, to eliminate a two-year waiting period for people with severe disabilities. 
 The White House and Democrats in Congress are operating on two optimistic assumptions. 
 One is that if everyone had health insurance, it would be easier to control health costs. 
 The other premise is that the nation could sharply reduce the growth of health care spending if doctors made less use of aggressive treatments that raise costs but do not result in better outcomes. 
 But no combination of tax increases and Medicare savings comes near to covering the full cost of the proposals, which Democrats say could easily top $1 trillion over 10 years. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Edward M. Kennedy has been pressing for national health care. He is shown here discussing a cancer bill with Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gov. Kathleen Sebelius on Tuesday at her Senate hearing on confirmation as secretary of health and human services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PROSTATE DISEASE (69%); CANCER (67%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (67%); PROSTATE CANCER (53%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (53%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (53%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (77%); NANCY-ANN DEPARLE (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); TED KENNEDY (57%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



32 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: At Economic Summit Meeting, a Change in U.S. Talking Points

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
For nearly 30 years, American presidents have arrived at economic summit meetings with nearly identical talking points: the solution to most ailments lies in more economic integration, unleashing free markets and using a light touch to tame capitalism.
 As President Obama landed here Tuesday night to attend the Group of 20 summit meeting, almost every one of those principles appeared up for debate.
 Economic integration is in retreat. Some countries have tried to wall themselves off from the troubles sweeping the world, noting that those less tied to the global economy have suffered less. Heavy regulation is back, this time with Washington's agreement. On Tuesday the French hinted they would walk out of the Thursday Group of 20 summit meeting if other nations did not agree to set up a robust international financial regulatory agency. 
 For all of Mr. Obama's early optimism that the rest of the world would follow his lead on big stimulus packages, there is no clear move in that direction. By last weekend the White House was signaling that it would not confront the nations, notably Germany, that resisted more deficit spending.
 All of this suggests a rebuke of American economic leadership. Yet Mr. Obama is still likely to dominate the discussions here. And there is no clear alternative to his strategy for reviving the world economy.
 Many in Europe and Asia who depend heavily on the United States market favor Mr. Obama's spending, hoping an American rebound will revive their economies -- and ease the pressure on them to spend more.
 ''Here's the central paradox,'' said Jeffrey E. Garten, a professor at the Yale School of Management and a former top Commerce Department official in the Clinton administration. ''Everyone has lost confidence in the U.S. system because the more that is revealed, the more it feels as if we pursued capitalism in a very irresponsible way. But everyone is now waiting for the U.S. to bail them out.''
 In fact, Mr. Obama's biggest challenge may be to convince the other nations at the summit meeting that the United States, while committed to recovery, does not envision a return to voracious American consumption. 
 ''The irony,'' Mr. Garten said, ''is that most of our partners, after berating us for being irresponsible and greedy, want to return to the era when American consumers supported the world, when we spent too much and saved too little.'' 
 Little of this will be said explicitly. No one wants to rattle the markets further by suggesting disharmony, at least during the 36 hours of the Group of 20 summit meeting. A draft of the communique that circulated Tuesday and that will be in front of the leaders at the summit meeting commits every nation to make efforts to refloat their economies, but it sets no targets. 
 There will be some agreements, worded to avoid controversial details. For the first time, there will be a broad agreement about the need to regulate hedge funds and to force tax havens in places like the Caribbean and Switzerland to meet some global standards. Mr. Obama will arrive pledging an overhaul of the United States' patchwork of regulations, which left institutions like A.I.G. without adequate supervision. (The American delegation will also be fending off pressure for international oversight of American regulatory actions.)
 The meeting's host, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, has been jetting around the world to encourage a veneer of broad accord. But the frictions are clear.
 At the previous Group of 20 summit meeting, participants agreed to resist protectionist tendencies. Few have. By several official counts, 17 nations, the United States included, have taken at least preliminary actions to limit imports or to make sure that their stimulus money is spent at home. 
 ''This is a classic case of countries bending to domestic political pressure because it is too difficult to make the political argument that if everyone restricts imports, everyone loses,'' said Charlene Barshefsky, who served as the United States trade representative in the late 1990s, boom years for globalization. 
 ''You would think that leaders would get religion from the fact that global trade this year could be down by 10 percent, precisely the trend that happened between 1930 and 1933,'' she said. ''But try making that argument at home, in front of lawmakers who say we're not going to be spending government money to buy someone else's products.''
 The size of the Group of 20 contributes to the chafing. Its membership, of necessity, includes a broad swath of the world economy, accounting for about 85 percent of the global gross domestic product. Few doubt that its meetings will eclipse the annual meeting of the Group of 7.
 At Group of 20 meetings, with China and India in the room, and with countries as diverse as Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Brazil and Turkey represented, there is no shared assumption that economic interdependence is necessarily a good thing. In fact, China has expressed worries about its American investments in surprisingly blunt terms, and it is watching its industrial cities closely for signs of unrest now that millions of Chinese factory workers are being laid off. 
 Inside the European Union, the richest nations of Western Europe do not want to spend heavily to bail out their poorer eastern neighbors -- a task they want to leave to the International Monetary Fund. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has committed the United States to increasing its contribution to the I.M.F. by about $100 billion, or a fifth of the needed $500 billion. But getting that amount through Congress, at a time when Mr. Obama is seeking more aid for countries like Afghanistan and Pakistan, will be an enormous challenge. 
 Mr. Obama has promised a new form of engagement. His aides have been debating how to mix expressions of humility with the exercise of influence. It will be a delicate dance, made more difficult by the fact that the broad goal of remaking the world's economic architecture has given way to each nation trying to avoid the equivalent of domestic foreclosure.
 ''In any international meeting, other leaders are going to want to hear that we understand what went wrong in the U.S. and abroad, that we care how it affects them and that we are working to fix it,'' said David Lipton, the special assistant to Mr. Obama for international economic affairs. ''It is hard to imagine a meeting with a foreign leader who isn't interested in those questions.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A police control room in London on Tuesday. A large security operation has been set up to protect the Group of 20 meeting from violent protests and terrorists.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTY WIGGLESWORTH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Models at Madame Tussauds in London of President Obama and Queen Elizabeth II, who will meet in the flesh Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL RYAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH II (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



33 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: House Race Upstate Is Too Close to Call; Democrat Leads by 65 Votes

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; David W. Chen and Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A mere 65 votes separated the two candidates late Tuesday in a Congressional contest in upstate New York that received national attention and was widely seen as a referendum on the Obama administration's economic recovery efforts.
 With all precincts reporting, the Democrat, Scott Murphy, a 39-year-old venture capitalist, led 77,344 to 77,279 over his Republican rival, Assemblyman James N. Tedisco, 58, for the seat vacated by Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, a Democrat. The turnout was surprisingly strong for a special election.
 But 10,055 absentee ballots were issued -- and 5,907 received so far, state election officials said -- meaning the election cannot be decided until the paper ballots are counted. Moreover, it is likely that the count may not begin until at least April 6, said Bob Brehm, a spokesman for the State Board of Elections. 
 Republicans held out hope of recapturing the seat in the 20th Congressional District, which is heavily Republican and stretches from the Catskills through the Albany suburbs to the Adirondacks. Democrats, meanwhile, waited to see whether their standard-bearer, a first-time political candidate who campaigned on his support for the federal stimulus package, could pull off an upset.
 Mr. Murphy, a Missouri native unknown in the district until he began running television ads in February, faced a huge Republican registration advantage and an advertising onslaught by outside conservative groups. But he raised enough money to significantly outspend Mr. Tedisco in a race where voters complained that both sides went negative early and often.
 Mr. Murphy closely aligned himself with President Obama, who narrowly won the district in November; Mr. Murphy also won support by promoting the stimulus package. Mr. Tedisco, who eventually came out against the stimulus, struggled to articulate a compelling economic message early on, but capitalized on outrage over bonuses for financial executives, portraying Mr. Murphy as sympathizing with Wall Street financiers more than ordinary upstate families.
 Despite the uncertainty of the outcome, both candidates struck an optimistic chord. ''The people in Washington said it couldn't be done,'' Mr. Murphy told cheering supporters in Saratoga Springs on Tuesday night. ''The people in this room and all across the 20th District tonight said something very different.''
 Mr. Tedisco took the stage at his own Saratoga Springs celebration with a joke: ''From now on, just call me 'Landslide Tedisco,' '' he said. He added, with conviction: ''I believe that when the smoke clears, we will have won a tremendous victory.''
 Ms. Gillibrand and Gov. David A. Paterson -- who created the Congressional vacancy by naming her to succeed Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Senate -- both appeared with Mr. Murphy. Asked if she was concerned about absentee ballots, Ms. Gillibrand said: ''We're ahead. We're going to win, I'm telling you.''
 Mr. Paterson, sounding as if he was speaking of himself rather than of Mr. Murphy, told the crowd that no matter what the polls show, ''If you believe and you work hard enough, and we all try enough, we can accomplish anything, and we just did.''
 With polls showing the race neck-and-neck, both parties had sought to play down the stakes on Tuesday. ''To even be competitive in a district like that I think demonstrates quite a bit,'' said Robert Gibbs, the White House spokesman, aboard Air Force One.
 For Republicans seeking a comeback, or at least a rallying point, the contest held promise. The party holds a voter registration advantage of about 70,000 in the district, the biggest Republican margin in New York. Republicans quickly chose Mr. Tedisco, an experienced campaigner and, as the Assembly minority leader, a familiar personality on Albany television. Democrats chose Mr. Murphy, who moved to Glens Falls only a few years ago.
 With polls showing Mr. Tedisco with a lopsided advantage at the outset, the new Republican national chairman, Michael Steele, made the New York race a test of his leadership and began steering resources to Mr. Tedisco.
 But the registration numbers may overstate how much of a built-in advantage Republicans really enjoy in the district. Beyond President Obama's narrow edge, Ms. Gillibrand defeated a Republican incumbent in 2006, won re-election last year despite being outspent by about 2-to-1, and remains highly popular across party lines.
 Mr. Murphy, who invested $250,000 of his own money and raised another $350,000 out of the gate, was first to advertise on television, and quickly seized on voters' economic unease, making it the single focus of his campaign. When he came out in favor of the stimulus package while House Republicans voted unanimously against it, Mr. Murphy had an issue he could wield like a sledgehammer.
 Mr. Tedisco's dependency on national Republicans, meantime, seemed to hurt him: his refusal to say whether he would have voted for the stimulus allowed Mr. Murphy to gain momentum, loosening Democratic purse strings in Washington and providing enough cover for the administration to weigh in on Mr. Murphy's behalf, if gingerly. By last Wednesday, President Obama delivered an endorsement by e-mail -- fodder for Democratic ads, but not so personal an effort that it could be read as a failure for Mr. Obama were Mr. Murphy to lose.
 By then, of course, Mr. Tedisco had rallied, emphatically declaring his opposition to the stimulus bill at an opportune moment: just as news broke that the same legislation had been stripped of a ban on $165 million in bonuses for executives at American International Group, the recipient of a huge federal bailout. Mr. Tedisco sought to lay those bonuses at his rival's feet, saying Mr. Murphy had supported similar incentives for executives at companies he had invested in.
 But it was unclear how much those attacks would help Mr. Tedisco, who already had been criticized for waging a more negative campaign than Mr. Murphy. ''I just got another mailer saying, 'A.I.G., A.I.G., A.I.G.,' '' said Earl Canale, a 28-year-old independent who voted in Glens Falls on Tuesday morning. ''It's not like Murphy was responsible. Enough of the negativity already.''
 As with any special election, turnout was hard to predict and the candidates left nothing to chance. Mr. Tedisco, who lives just outside the district and so could not vote himself, courted votes from dusk on Monday till late in the day on Tuesday.
 Mr. Murphy voted in Glens Falls, stopped by several campaign offices urging volunteers to make a final push, and then headed out into the night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Assemblyman James N. Tedisco, left, and Scott Murphy, a venture capitalist, at their election night parties in Saratoga Springs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A28) MAP: The 20th Congressional District is heavily Republican. (pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BALLOTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



34 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Ersatz Capitalism

BYLINE: By JOSEPH E. STIGLITZ. 
Joseph E. Stiglitz, a professor of economics at Columbia who was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1995 to 1997, was awarded the Nobel prize in economics in 2001.

 BODY:
THE Obama administration's $500 billion or more proposal to deal with America's ailing banks has been described by some in the financial markets as a win-win-win proposal. Actually, it is a win-win-lose proposal: the banks win, investors win -- and taxpayers lose.
 Treasury hopes to get us out of the mess by replicating the flawed system that the private sector used to bring the world crashing down, with a proposal marked by overleveraging in the public sector, excessive complexity, poor incentives and a lack of transparency. 
 Let's take a moment to remember what caused this mess in the first place. Banks got themselves, and our economy, into trouble by overleveraging -- that is, using relatively little capital of their own, they borrowed heavily to buy extremely risky real estate assets. In the process, they used overly complex instruments like collateralized debt obligations. 
 The prospect of high compensation gave managers incentives to be shortsighted and undertake excessive risk, rather than lend money prudently. Banks made all these mistakes without anyone knowing, partly because so much of what they were doing was ''off balance sheet'' financing. 
 In theory, the administration's plan is based on letting the market determine the prices of the banks' ''toxic assets'' -- including outstanding house loans and securities based on those loans. The reality, though, is that the market will not be pricing the toxic assets themselves, but options on those assets.
 The two have little to do with each other. The government plan in effect involves insuring almost all losses. Since the private investors are spared most losses, then they primarily ''value'' their potential gains. This is exactly the same as being given an option. 
 Consider an asset that has a 50-50 chance of being worth either zero or $200 in a year's time. The average ''value'' of the asset is $100. Ignoring interest, this is what the asset would sell for in a competitive market. It is what the asset is ''worth.'' Under the plan by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, the government would provide about 92 percent of the money to buy the asset but would stand to receive only 50 percent of any gains, and would absorb almost all of the losses. Some partnership!
 Assume that one of the public-private partnerships the Treasury has promised to create is willing to pay $150 for the asset. That's 50 percent more than its true value, and the bank is more than happy to sell. So the private partner puts up $12, and the government supplies the rest -- $12 in ''equity'' plus $126 in the form of a guaranteed loan. 
 If, in a year's time, it turns out that the true value of the asset is zero, the private partner loses the $12, and the government loses $138. If the true value is $200, the government and the private partner split the $74 that's left over after paying back the $126 loan. In that rosy scenario, the private partner more than triples his $12 investment. But the taxpayer, having risked $138, gains a mere $37. 
 Even in an imperfect market, one shouldn't confuse the value of an asset with the value of the upside option on that asset. 
 But Americans are likely to lose even more than these calculations suggest, because of an effect called adverse selection. The banks get to choose the loans and securities that they want to sell. They will want to sell the worst assets, and especially the assets that they think the market overestimates (and thus is willing to pay too much for). 
 But the market is likely to recognize this, which will drive down the price that it is willing to pay. Only the government's picking up enough of the losses overcomes this ''adverse selection'' effect. With the government absorbing the losses, the market doesn't care if the banks are ''cheating'' them by selling their lousiest assets, because the government bears the cost. 
 The main problem is not a lack of liquidity. If it were, then a far simpler program would work: just provide the funds without loan guarantees. The real issue is that the banks made bad loans in a bubble and were highly leveraged. They have lost their capital, and this capital has to be replaced. 
 Paying fair market values for the assets will not work. Only by overpaying for the assets will the banks be adequately recapitalized. But overpaying for the assets simply shifts the losses to the government. In other words, the Geithner plan works only if and when the taxpayer loses big time. 
 Some Americans are afraid that the government might temporarily ''nationalize'' the banks, but that option would be preferable to the Geithner plan. After all, the F.D.I.C. has taken control of failing banks before, and done it well. It has even nationalized large institutions like Continental Illinois (taken over in 1984, back in private hands a few years later), and Washington Mutual (seized last September, and immediately resold). 
 What the Obama administration is doing is far worse than nationalization: it is ersatz capitalism, the privatizing of gains and the socializing of losses. It is a ''partnership'' in which one partner robs the other. And such partnerships -- with the private sector in control -- have perverse incentives, worse even than the ones that got us into the mess. 
 So what is the appeal of a proposal like this? Perhaps it's the kind of Rube Goldberg device that Wall Street loves -- clever, complex and nontransparent, allowing huge transfers of wealth to the financial markets. It has allowed the administration to avoid going back to Congress to ask for the money needed to fix our banks, and it provided a way to avoid nationalization. 
 But we are already suffering from a crisis of confidence. When the high costs of the administration's plan become apparent, confidence will be eroded further. At that point the task of recreating a vibrant financial sector, and resuscitating the economy, will be even harder. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



35 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: 2 Democrats Introduce Far-Reaching Bill on Energy and Warming

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The debate on global warming and energy policy accelerated on Tuesday as two senior House Democrats unveiled a far-reaching bill to cap heat-trapping gases and quicken the country's move away from dependence on coal and oil.
 But the bill leaves critical questions unanswered and has no Republican support. It is thus the beginning, not the end, of the debate in Congress on how to deal with two of President Obama's priorities, climate change and energy. 
 The draft measure, written by Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, sets a slightly more ambitious goal for capping heat-trapping gases than Mr. Obama's proposal. The bill requires that emissions be reduced 20 percent from 2005 levels by 2020, while Mr. Obama's plancalls for a 14 percent reduction by 2020. Both would reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases by roughly 80 percent by 2050.
 The Waxman-Markey bill, the American Clean Energy and Security Act, emerges at a time when many Americans, and their representatives in Congress, are wary of wide-ranging environmental legislation that could raise energy costs and potentially cripple industry. The bill, a version of a so-called cap-and-trade plan, also comes as the Environmental Protection Agency is about to exert regulatory authority over heat-trapping gases under the Clean Air Act. 
 The bill would require every region of the country to produce a quarter of its electricity from renewable sources like wind, solar and geothermal by 2025. A number of lawmakers around the country, particularly in the Southeast, call that goal unrealistic because the natural resources and technology to meet it do not yet exist.
 The bill also calls for modernization of the electrical grid, production of more electric vehicles and significant increases in efficiency in buildings, appliances and the generation of electricity. 
 But the Waxman-Markey proposal does not address how pollution allowances would be distributed or what percentage might be auctioned or given free. Nor does it say how most of the tens of billions of dollars raised from pollution permits would be spent, or whether the revenue would be returned to consumers to compensate for higher energy bills. Those matters have been left to negotiations, which will begin when Congress returns from its Easter recess on April 20.
 Under Mr. Obama's plan, roughly two-thirds of the revenue from pollution permit auctions would be returned to the public in tax breaks. Some members of Congress from both parties want to see all the revenue from any carbon-reduction plan returned to the public in some form.
 Mr. Waxman, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a statement that his measure would create jobs and provide a gradual transition to a more efficient economy.
 ''Our goal is to strengthen our economy by making America the world leader in new clean-energy and energy-efficiency technologies,'' Mr. Waxman said.
 The bill offers a sweetener for members from coal-producing states by including $10 billion in new financing for the development of technology to capture and store emissions of carbon dioxide from the burning of coal, which currently produces half of the nation's electricity.
 Representative Rick Boucher, a Democrat from the coal-rich southwestern corner of Virginia, insisted on that provision, noting that coal would remain a major part of the nation's energy mix for decades to come.
 A coalition of business and environmental groups, the United States Climate Action Partnership, welcomed the measure as a ''strong starting point'' for addressing emissions of heat-trapping gases and said it had incorporated many of the partnership's recommendations.
 But the group, which includes major manufacturing corporations like Alcoa, DuPont and General Motors, said that it would push for a ''substantial'' number of free pollution allowances so that its members could make a gradual transition to less-polluting technologies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Henry A. Waxman, energy bill sponsor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); METHANE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); JOB CREATION (66%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); EASTER SEASON (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); EDWARD J MARKEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



36 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Russia to Consider Reductions of Nuclear Arsenals in Talks for New Treaty

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama plans to open negotiations on Wednesday to draft a new arms control treaty that could slash the American and Russian strategic nuclear arsenals by about a third and possibly lead to even deeper reductions, according to administration officials.
 As Mr. Obama arrived in London on Tuesday for his first European trip as president, American and Russian officials have privately indicated that they could agree to reducing their stockpiles perhaps to about 1,500 warheads apiece, down from the 2,200 allowed under a treaty signed by President George W. Bush.
 The two sides plan to draft the treaty quickly so it can be signed in time to replace the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, or Start, which expires in December after 15 years as the broadest legal foundation of Russian-American nuclear policy. Washington and Moscow hope quick success replacing a pact negotiated in the waning days of the cold war will help revive a strained relationship and set the stage for further arms cuts.
 ''Just setting a new limit would send a signal to the international community in general that the United States was getting serious about its disarmament commitments again,'' said Peter Crail, an analyst at the Arms Control Association, a Washington advocacy organization. 
 Mr. Obama is to meet President Dmitri A. Medvedev for the first time on Wednesday in London on the sidelines of the Group of 20 economic summit meeting, and they plan to announce the beginning of the talks to replace Start. Obama administration officials also said they expected the two to advance cooperation on other thorny issues, including Afghanistan and Iran.
 Mr. Medvedev, in an Op-Ed article published Tuesday in The Washington Post, said he was already seeing better relations since Mr. Obama's inauguration. 
 ''Neither Russia nor the United States can tolerate drift and indifference in our relations,'' Mr. Medvedev wrote. He placed blame for the rift on Mr. Bush's efforts to build a missile defense system and enlarge NATO in Moscow's former sphere of influence, making no mention of Russia's war with Georgia last year.
 ''Possible areas of cooperation abound,'' Mr. Medvedev said. ''For instance, I agree with President Obama that resuming the disarmament process should become our immediate priority. The wish to ensure absolute security in a unilateral way is a dangerous illusion. I am encouraged that our new partners in Washington realize this.''
 American and Russian officials decided to tackle arms control in part because it seemed the least contentious of their issues. The Russians like talking about arms control because it is one area where they remain relatively on a par with the United States. Mr. Bush scorned arms control as the basis of relations, seeing it as anachronistic, and the treaty he signed was so general it came to fewer than 500 words.
 Mr. Obama, by contrast, promised during the campaign to restart traditional arms control talks and take ''steps down the long road toward eliminating nuclear weapons.''
 ''The Obama administration and the president see arms control as an important tool to advance American security,'' said Steven Pifer, a former deputy assistant secretary of state under Mr. Bush. ''That's a big philosophical difference.''
 Mr. Pifer, now at the Brookings Institution, said Mr. Obama's initiative could finally bury the cold-war nuclear legacy. ''It's cleaning up some unfinished business that's been put on hold for the last seven years,'' he said.
 Of course, opening meetings between American and Russian leaders often begin with hope, only to deteriorate later. In June 2001, when Mr. Bush first met with Vladimir V. Putin, then Russia's president and now its prime minister, Mr. Bush famously said that ''I looked the man in the eye'' and ''I was able to get a sense of his soul.''
 But their cordial relationship degenerated into crisis by last year's war in Georgia. 
 The treaty that expires on Dec. 5, Start I, was signed in 1991 before the collapse of the Soviet Union and went into effect in 1994, requiring both sides to reduce their arsenals to 6,000 warheads. Start II was never fully ratified, and a framework for a Start III never went anywhere.
 The Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty, signed by Mr. Bush in 2002, cut arsenals to the range of 1,700 to 2,200 by 2012, relying on the verification program set up by Start. But it allowed warheads to be stored rather than destroyed, and, unlike Start, it imposed no restrictions on delivery vehicles, like intercontinental ballistic missiles, heavy bombers or nuclear-armed submarines. 
 The process Mr. Obama and Mr. Medvedev begin Wednesday will essentially be a two-stage effort. Because Start I expires soon and Washington's latest nuclear policy review is still under way, the first stage will focus on getting a replacement to preserve the inspection and verification system established under Start I, combined with a reduction to perhaps 1,500 warheads.
 Then next year, the two sides envision a more ambitious agreement that could reduce warheads further, even to 1,000, as well as limit delivery vehicles and possibly tactical nuclear weapons. Start limited each side to 1,600 delivery vehicles but both have already cut below that. Mr. Pifer said a new treaty could bring each down to 600 or 700.
 As they focus first on the Start replacement, the two sides appear relatively close on the overall ceiling, but they face other tough issues, most significantly the counting rules. American officials have signaled flexibility but insist that adopting rules that Moscow wants will require more transparency and intrusive inspections, according to people briefed on the unofficial, preliminary discussions.
 Another potential complication is the planned American missile defense system in Eastern Europe to defend against a possible Iranian threat. Russian representatives told the Americans that with a 1,500-warhead ceiling, there might be no need to settle the missile defense issue to reach an initial treaty deal. If they want to go lower, to 1,200 or 1,000 warheads, then, the Russians said, they would insist on constraints on missile defense.
 The Americans want to avoid having missile defense thrown into the mix, warning that it would make it hard to get a treaty done in time. At a confirmation hearing last Thursday, Rose Gottemoeller, nominated to serve as the assistant secretary of state for verification and compliance and the chief negotiator for the treaty, testified that she wanted to avoid extra issues.
 ''In my view, we will keep the agenda tight,'' she said. ''We will keep it focused.''
 Senator Richard G. Lugar, an Indiana Republican, said the treaty would have to be signed by August for the Senate to ratify it by Dec. 5. If it cannot be done by then, the Obama administration has talked about possibly signing the pact before the deadline and extending Start until the replacement can be ratified.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



37 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Thinking, And Nuance

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Every so often, history serves up an analogy that's uncomfortable, a little distracting and yet still very relevant. 
 In the summer of 1933, just as they will do on Thursday, heads of government and their finance ministers met in London to talk about a global economic crisis. They accomplished little and went home to battle the crisis in their own ways.
 More than any other country, Germany -- Nazi Germany -- then set out on a serious stimulus program. The government built up the military, expanded the autobahn, put up stadiums for the 1936 Berlin Olympics and built monuments to the Nazi Party across Munich and Berlin. 
 The economic benefits of this vast works program never flowed to most workers, because fascism doesn't look kindly on collective bargaining. But Germany did escape the Great Depression faster than other countries. Corporate profits boomed, and unemployment sank (and not because of slave labor, which didn't become widespread until later). Harold James, an economic historian, says that the young liberal economists studying under John Maynard Keynes in the 1930s began to debate whether Hitler had solved unemployment. 
 No sane person enjoys mixing nuance and Nazis, but this bit of economic history has a particular importance this week. In the run-up to the G-20 meeting, European leaders have resisted calls for more government spending. Last week, the European Union president, Mirek Topolanek, echoed a line from AC/DC -- whom he had just heard in concert -- and described the Obama administration's stimulus plan as ''a road to hell.''
 Here in the United States, many people are understandably wondering whether the $800 billion stimulus program will make much of a difference. They want to know: Does stimulus work? Fortunately, this is one economic question that's been answered pretty clearly in the last century.
 Yes, stimulus works. 
 When governments have taken aggressive steps to soften an economic decline, they have succeeded. The Germans did it in the 1930s. Franklin D. Roosevelt did so more haltingly, and had more halting results. Even the limp Japanese recovery plan of the 1990s makes the case. Although dithering over a bank rescue kept Japan in a slump, government spending on roads and bridges made things better than they otherwise would have been.
 No matter what happens in London on Thursday, President Obama and other world leaders are sure to claim the meeting as a success. (''I do not regard the economic conference as a failure,'' Roosevelt said in 1933.)
 But if the meeting is going to be an actual success, it will have to do more than put a happy face on trans-Atlantic disagreements. It will need to begin nudging the discussion about stimulus toward a more accurate reading of history. 
 The Americans and Europeans aren't really as far apart as Mr. Topolanek's AC/DC homage suggests. Europe is doing less than the United States, but the gap isn't huge. It just seems so because European stimulus tends to arrive quietly, from existing safety net programs. In this country, where the safety net is weaker, stimulus comes largely from new laws. 
 Yet the rhetoric from Europe -- even the more subdued recent remarks, like those of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany -- still creates a problem. Stimulus skepticism today will make it harder to pass more stimulus tomorrow. And more will probably be needed. 
 George Soros, the billionaire investor who was born in Budapest and works in New York, came to Washington last week and captured both the problem and the potential for a solution. ''I think they can be brought around,'' he said of the Europeans. ''I am actually hopeful something constructive can happen.'' 
 The objections to stimulus tend to come in two forms: Its costs are too high, and its benefits too small. 
 Mr. Topolanek and German officials have been pressing the first argument. They say that the additional government spending can lead to inflation and government debt. The Weimar Republic of the 1920s, where inflation helped lead to Hitler's rise, casts a long shadow.
 Stimulus opponents here in the United States -- mainly Congressional Republicans (though not, tellingly, Republican governors of some large states) -- have been warning about debt, too. But they have also been making the second argument. When the government spends money, they say, it simply displaces spending by the private sector. Republicans on Capitol Hill have taken to citing a recent book by the journalist Amity Shlaes, ''The Forgotten Man,'' which claims the New Deal didn't work.
 Theoretically, neither of these arguments is crazy. But they don't have much evidence on their side.
 The best takedown of Ms. Shlaes's thesis came from Eric Rauchway, a historian, who pointed out that her favorite statistic did not count people employed by New Deal programs to be employed. Excluding the effects of the medicine, the patient is as sick as ever!
 When Roosevelt stuck to a stimulus program, unemployment fell markedly, and the biggest stimulus of all -- World War II -- did the rest. It's true that economic models say the economy shouldn't work this way. When resources are sitting idle, businesses should find a way to use them profitably. But they often don't. 
 People become irrationally pessimistic during a downturn. They are driven by what Keynes called animal spirits. Only government can typically change the dynamic. 
 Could the government spending eventually lead to inflation and crippling debts? Absolutely. But the mistakes of the last 80 years have gone in the other direction. During the Great Depression, Japan's lost decade, the Asian financial crisis and even the last 18 months, governments didn't act aggressively enough. Deflation and lack of growth ended up being the real risks. 
 These are precisely the risks facing the world economy now. In Spain, prices are already falling. Layoffs are still mounting around the world. Financial firms have more losses to acknowledge. 
 Given the diminished standing of the United States, Mr. Obama won't be able to get the Europeans to fall in line behind him this week. But he can still make progress. He and the American delegation can, in gentle terms, ask the Europeans to live up to their own standard -- and remind them of their self-interest.
 Two weeks ago, responding to criticism, an executive of the European Central Bank wrote a letter to an Italian newspaper claiming, ''fiscal stimulus in European countries is wholly comparable to that seen in the United States.'' That simply isn't true, as the chart at right makes clear. The difference amounts to about $200 billion over three years.
 Because the global economy is in many ways integrated, Europe can benefit from American stimulus without pulling its own weight. But because the global economy isn't completely integrated, European stimulus would still help Europe more than anywhere else. And that presents the American delegation with perhaps its most persuasive case. 
 Right now, Eastern Europe appears to be one of the world's most vulnerable places. It is a relatively poor region, where the population is disaffected and where the economy is shrinking rapidly. In both Estonia and Latvia, the gross domestic product fell 10 percent last year.
 At the G-20, the leaders of the richer European countries will be asking the world to help Eastern Europe. By all means, the world should help. But Europe should reconsider its part, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The French delegation to the global economic conference in London in 1933 during the Depression. Little came of the meeting, which adjourned in six weeks with no major agreements.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B8) CHART: Different Priorities: Countries that devote a significant share of their annual budgets to the social safety net -- unemployment benefits, welfare, health care, etc. -- are spending less on directly stimulating their ailing economies.(Source: International Monetary Fund) Chart details bar graph.(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); HISTORY (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); OLYMPICS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



38 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Online Resales Pushing Tickets Far From Reach

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
Want to see U2 play at your local stadium this fall? How much are you willing to pay?
 The concert business is booming, with top tours grossing more each year. But as the economy constricts, consumer frustration is beginning to reverberate throughout the industry. Fans complain that the once simple process of getting tickets has been transformed into a complex and expensive digital chore.
 U2's show on Sept. 24 at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., was an ''instantaneous sellout'' through Ticketmaster on Monday morning, according to the promoter, Live Nation. Just as quickly, however, thousands of listings flooded any-price-goes sites like TicketsNow.com, a Ticketmaster subsidiary where fans and brokers flip tickets, often at prices far above face value. One seller was asking $10,000 for a $253 seat near the stage. 
 Jonas Brothers fans faced a similar situation when the band's five New York-area concerts sold out over the weekend. Elizabeth Bohl, a payroll manager from Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., said she could not find tickets at list price or afford to take her daughter, Emily, 11, at scalpers' rates.
 ''I'm not going to spend a month's worth of groceries to get two tickets to see the Jonas Brothers,'' Ms. Bohl said. 
 Two years after the repeal of New York State's decades-old anti-scalping laws, the ticket marketplace has become a fiercely competitive game in which major corporations compete over resale prices with the fan next door, scalpers have a Washington lobbyist and thousands of tickets disappear in a fraction of a second.
 ''The public just feels that they're not getting a fair shot, and in some cases they may not be,'' said Gary Bongiovanni, editor of Pollstar, the concert industry trade magazine.
 Once bought by telephone or at box office windows, tickets for concerts are now mostly bought online, pitting ordinary consumers against a network of professional scalpers who use ever more sophisticated technology to scoop up large numbers of tickets in a flash. ''Presales'' deplete the supply by offering early tickets to fan-club members. To see the hottest shows, fans must keep track of presale schedules and authorization codes (which are sometimes even auctioned on eBay), and coordinate friends and family members in multicomputer strategies for shows in danger of a quick sellout. 
 After lobbying by ticket brokers to decriminalize reselling in the Craigslist era, many states in addition to New York have lifted restrictions on scalping, and large corporations have embraced what is called the secondary market for tickets, like eBay, which owns StubHub. New York's scalping laws were softened in 2005 and have been suspended since 2007, allowing tickets for most large events to be resold at any price. 
 Connecticut and Minnesota also revised their laws in 2007 to permit reselling, and in June, the New York Legislature will have to formalize its repeal or the old restrictions will return. The lobbying in Albany has already begun. 
 ''This is a huge consumer rip-off,'' said Russ Haven, legislative counsel for the New York Public Interest Research group. ''There is no benefit to consumers in unlimited scalping.''
 Gary Adler, general counsel of the National Association of Ticket Brokers, a trade group representing high-volume ticket resellers, countered that his members operated with a published code of ethics and charged only what the market would bear. 
 ''It's supply and demand,'' Mr. Adler said, adding that for plenty of less-buzzy shows brokers may have to unload tickets at less than face value. 
 As recently as the mid-1990s, the concert industry was essentially a patchwork of small regional promoters, but consolidation has allowed a few large companies to dominate. And with sales of recorded music withering, artists have increasingly turned to touring for income. That, along with performers' frustration over missing out on sales in the secondary market, has led to skyrocketing ticket prices, promoters and industry executives say. The average official price for one of the Top 100 tours was $67 last year, more than double that of a decade ago, according to Pollstar. 
 And the churning secondary market has muddied long-held beliefs in the concert industry about what constitutes fair trade.
 ''It's a free-for-all,'' said Arthur Fogel, head of global touring for Live Nation and U2's longtime tour promoter. ''When you are an artist charging $200, and you see that those tickets are getting sold for $400, and $200 is evaporating into an economy that you have no piece of, I don't think that's fundamentally fair. But it's a reality we live with, no different than people illegally downloading music.''
 Some performers scalp their own tickets, Mr. Bongiovanni said, although few will admit to it publicly for fear of appearing to fleece their fans.
 ''There are artists who hold back tickets from sale and deliver them to the secondary market,'' he said. ''They are sold directly to the brokers because artists can make more money that way.''
 A spokesman for Live Nation said U2 never diverted tickets to resellers in this way. In a nod to the recession, U2 set the lowest price level for its current tour at $33. Many of those cheap seats are now being resold for hundreds more, but fans will have another chance for list-price seats in Chicago, New York and Boston when additional shows go on sale on Monday.
 High-profile ticketing problems have focused scrutiny on the proposed merger of Ticketmaster and Live Nation, now under review by the Justice Department. 
 In February, Bruce Springsteen's fans were redirected to TicketsNow from Ticketmaster though regularly priced seats were still available. Mr. Springsteen wrote a scathing public letter, and Ticketmaster apologized, citing a computer glitch. But three weeks later, the attorney general of New Jersey, Anne Milgram, announced a settlement with the company regarding more than 2,000 consumer complaints.
 When a similar glitch last fall affected Phish fans trying to buy tickets to the band's reunion concerts in Hampton, Va., many took to the Internet with vitriol. Looking back on it, Jack Lebowitz, an environmental lawyer in Glens Falls, N.Y., who in the 1990s helped write a book about Phish set lists, turned philosophical.
 ''A concert ticket should be for someone's spiritual life-enhancing experience of art,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''Not just another commodity, another stock or mortgage, something people flip for the biggest profit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Bohl, left, wasn't able to get Jonas Brothers tickets for her daughter Emily, 11. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET AGENCIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); TICKET SALES (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); LOBBYING (69%); DECRIMINALIZATION (64%)

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (91%); CRAIGSLIST INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: NICK JONAS (78%); JOE JONAS (78%); KEVIN JONAS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



39 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2139 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: April 2, 2009

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
International
MILITANTS KILL 13 IN KANDAHAR AT AN AFGHAN PROVINCIAL OFFICE
Five suicide bombers attacked an Afghan provincial office in Kandahar with assault rifles and hand grenades, killing 13 people and wounding 14. The Taliban claimed responsibility. The assault by multiple gunmen continued a pattern of militant attacks in the region recently. PAGE A5
RIGHTS ACTIVIST IS BEATEN IN MOSCOW
The leader of a prominent Russian human rights group was beaten by a group of men outside his Moscow home, in an attack that the police and colleagues say was probably linked to his professional activities. PAGE A5 
World Briefings A6
DOLPHINS FEARED DYING THRIVE
Biologists working in Bangladesh found a thriving population of 6,000 Irrawaddy dolphins, a species that marine mammal experts had worried was vulnerable. PAGE A8
64 Get Hepatitis C at China Hospital A8
Damascus Journal A8
MISSILES KILL AT LEAST 10 IN PAKISTAN
Missiles fired from a suspected American drone struck a militant training camp in northwest Pakistan. The attack was apparently aimed at one of the area's most important Taliban leaders, Hakimullah Mehsud. He escaped unhurt, an intelligence official said. PAGE A10
PETRAEUS CITES THREAT TO PAKISTAN
Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander for Iraq and Afghanistan, warned a Senate panel that militant extremists in Pakistan could collapse the state from within if left unchallenged. PAGE A10
National
EDUCATION SECRETARY OFFERS TRADE: STIMULUS AID FOR NEW DATA
Secretary of Education Arne Duncan told the nation's governors that in exchange for a second payment of billions of dollars in education aid, he wants new information about the performance of their public schools. The data is likely to show that many states dumb down their tests to inflate students' scores. PAGE A15
LAWSUIT CALLS TOLL DISCOUNTS ILLEGAL
Is E-ZPass unconstitutional? Not in itself, but two new lawsuits filed in federal courts claim that toll discounts for in-state drivers violate the Constitution. Massachusetts and Rhode Island give these discounts to their residents with transponders. The lawsuits contend that this practice defies the Constitutional provisions that prohibit burdens on interstate commerce and promise equal treatment under the law. PAGE A15
DOCTORS URGE END TO FINANCIAL TIES
A group of prominent physicians and researchers urged professional medical groups to ''wean'' themselves from industry support and move toward a complete ban on corporate money. PAGE A16
G.O.P. Unveils Alternative Budget A17
A Setback for Environmentalists A17
Allies Support Besieged Obama Pick A17
PLAN TO RESTORE EVERGLADES SHRINKS
Its belt tightened by the shrinking economy, Florida will significantly scale back its $1.34 billion deal to restore the Everglades by buying 180,000 acres from the United States Sugar Corporation. PAGE A18
FIVE-DAY DASH FOR TEMPORARY VISAS
The yearly five-day scramble by employers for temporary visas for foreign scientists and engineers has begun. The authorities expect fewer petitions because of the recession and new restrictions on rescued financial companies. PAGE A19
Obituaries
ANDREA MEAD LAWRENCE, 76
As a 19-year-old newlywed, Ms. Lawrence rocketed down the Norwegian slopes with pigtails, flying to win two gold medals in Alpine skiing at the 1952 Olympics, a feat not yet matched by any American. PAGE A21
NEW YORK
QUALIFIED ENLISTEES FIND
A Fast Track to Citizenship
Under a new program that is intended to raise the number of highly skilled soldiers, the American military is allowing some temporary immigrants with medical expertise and foreign language skills to enlist. As an enticement, the military is offering an expedited path to citizenship and will waive naturalization fees. Above, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the Army chief of staff, led a swearing-in ceremony in Times Square. PAGE A21
JUDGE CONDEMNS STING OPERATION
A Brooklyn judge issued a stern denunciation of a mother's attempt to overturn her son's murder conviction, saying her covert efforts to elicit incriminating statements from a juror in her son's trial amounted to ''vigilante'' behavior. PAGE A23
Grocery Workers Back Bloomberg A25
BUSINESS
MASSACHUSETTS SUES FUND
Over Madoff Investments
The top securities regulator of Massachusetts has accused a Connecticut investment firm of fraud in misrepresenting its lack of knowledge about the business operations of the disgraced money manager Bernard L. Madoff. PAGE B1
State of the Art
Reminders From Out of the Blue
Amid the ruins of the financial system, some green shoots are popping forth. One is called Reqall, a personal reminder system that transcribes your utterances into text and collates them at Reqall.com, David Pogue writes. PAGE B1
A BLEAK MARCH FOR CARMAKERS
Sales of new vehicles in the United States fell sharply in March but picked up in the month's final week, giving automakers reason to believe the market may be at or near its bottom. PAGE B1
ULTRA-THIN AND DIRT-CHEAP
Get ready for the next stage in the personal computer revolution. By the end of the year, we're likely to see laptops the size of a thin hardcover book that can run all day on a single charge and cost $99. PAGE B1
Small Medical Companies Feel Pinch B7
2ND QUARTER BEGINS WITH RALLY
Wall Street continued to rally, lifting shares from some of their worst levels in more than a decade. Investors seemed to shrug off a report that said the economy had lost 742,000 jobs in the private sector in March and focused instead on an increase in the number of pending home sales. PAGE B10
Sports
METS AND YANKEES FOLLOW TREND, DESIGNING NEW (OLD) STADIUMS
The Mets and the Yankees' new retro ballparks, like so many other new-generation stadiums, were designed to reflect the quirky parks of the past. Citi Field has an asymmetric design, 16-foot walls in left field and deep power alleys. The Yankees preserved all the oddities of their old stadium in the new one. PAGE B12
VOICE OF YANKEES MAY RETIRE
Bob Sheppard's authoritative voice will not be emanating from the public address system in the Yankee's new stadium. Paul Doherty, an agent who is one of Sheppard's friends, said Sheppard's son Paul told him that Sheppard, 98, was planning to retire. PAGE B15
Arts
MANIPULATION OF HEARTS AND MINDS
For a Better World, Not Profits
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is well known for its philanthropic works. It is less known for its efforts to raise awareness through television shows. The foundation has paid to develop scripts that showcase certain issues. Now, in an expanded version, it is in talks with Viacom for message placement: H.I.V. awareness instead of Coke Zero. Page C1
A DELIBERATE RISE TO STARDOM
Paul Dano began his career as a child actor, but you'd never know it. He exhibits none of the breed's tics or rampant eagerness to please. Now, he seems determined to continue his normal life and still pursue a successful career, and he's in demand for a string of high-profile projects. Page C1
OPERA TO BEGIN FIVE-SHOW SEASON
Hoping for a calm season and looking to shed financial and administrative troubles, the Metropolitan Opera has announced its first operatic season since closing a year ago. But it will be a conservative season, a tasting menu really, with five productions symbolic of its traditions. Page C1
Music Reviews
A Three-Star Salute
A Mendelssohn concert given by Emanuel Ax, Yo-Yo Ma and Itshak Perlman at Carnegie Hall was a celebration of the Mendelssohn bicentennial, Vivien Schweiter writes, but it was also a reminder of these musicians' unabated staying power. Page C6
FROM A MASTER OF IMPROVISATION
The alto saxophonist Lee Konitz played his first show at the Village Vanguard since 1983. With the ensemble Minsarah, his unaccompanied prelude voiced the suggestion of many unanswered questions, Nate Chinen writes. Page C7
Jazz-Pop With a Couple's Repartee C7
Home
On Location
A 1908 Synagogue With a Green Apartment
The top floor of the Beth Hamedrash Hagadol Anshe Ungarn, a synagogue built in 1908, eventually became the environmentally friendly apartment of Dominique Camacho, 40, and Gary Hirschkron, 51. But it took several steps to get there. PAGE D1
THE STARTER GARDEN
The recession garden seems to be enjoying a revival during these bad times. That said, there is a name for folks with the knowledge and experience to successfully grow food: farmers. The first-time gardener faces a number of knotty choices. PAGE D1
The Fix
Upgrading a Mattress
My bed is just a box spring and a mattress. What's the easiest way to upgrade it without spending a lot of money? PAGE D2
Currents D3
Shopping With
The Tools for Fixing It Yourself
Mag Ruffman, a television actress in Ontario, is also a home-repair expert. (Her hammer collection stands at 44.) She also has a blog where the goal, she said, is to motivate people to tackle projects themselves. On a recent trip to Manhattan, Ms. Ruffman went shopping for the tools a beginner fix-it-yourselfer needs. PAGE D4
Homeless Man in Love, and Indoors D6
Styles
Skin Deep
Alone in the Ring for 7 Years, Botox May Soon Have a Challenger
If the government approves Reloxin, an injectable made from the botulinum toxin, Botox will face a serious threat. The buzz among doctors is that Reloxin works more quickly and lasts longer than Botox. But does the truth match the early expectations? PAGE E1
For Some, Voice Mail Is Losing Allure E1
Wife/Mother/Worker/Spy E2
Critical Shopper
The East's View of the West's Style
The publicity material on Amalga, a new shop on Wooster Street, proclaims that its focus is on ''Japanese brands that are kind of exclusive in New York.'' It does not disappoint, Cintra Wilson writes. PAGE E4
A Clear-Eyed Indie Arts Magazine E4
Extending Fashion to the Bicycle E8
Physical Culture: Lacrosse Gear Test E8
Editorial
THE FORGOTTEN RICH
The Senate budget debate began against a backdrop of war and recession, rising unemployment and surging foreclosures. But for Senators Blanche Lincoln and Jon Kyl, the most pressing issue is clear: America's wealthiest families need help. Now. The two senators are expected to propose an amendment to deeply cut estate taxes for the fraction of 1 percent of the population still subject to those levies. PAGE A26
MILES TO GO ON E-HEALTH RECORDS
President Obama is counting on electronic records to help modernize the nation's dysfunctional health care system, improve the quality of care and reduce its cost. There is a long way to go. PAGE A26
EARMARKS OF SCANDAL
Speaker Nancy Pelosi should listen to the Democrats who are pushing for an ethics inquiry into the far too cozy relationship between lawmakers and the PMA Group of superlobbyists. If the House majority doesn't police itself, it will lose credibility all the way to the next election. PAGE A26
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
As of a few years ago, the 500 richest people earned more than the 400 million poorest. The first group, while partly responsible for the global economic mess, will get by fine; the latter will suffer the worst consequences. That's why world leaders at this week's Group of 20 summit meeting must address the needs of the most indigent. PAGE A27
GAIL COLLINS
Who better to set us straight about whether the nation really approves of what Barack Obama has been doing than a nearly 200-mile-long district that was gerrymandered so carefully for the Republicans that it wound up looking like an outline of Bart Simpson doing a swan dive? Or perhaps a designer boot with fire coming out the toe. PAGE A27
TO BEAT A DICTATOR, IGNORE HIM
B. R. Myers, a researcher of North Korean ideology and propaganda at Dongseo University in South Korea, writes that the best way to undermine the regime of Kim Jong-il is to ignore his next missile test. PAGE A27
The Group of 20
FRANCE AND CHINA MEET TO SEEK END TO TIBET DISPUTE
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and President Hu Jintao of China met Wednesday night in London before the Group of 20 summit meeting after months of friction over China's handling of Tibet. PAGE A12
China, Hurting Least, Walks Tall A12
OBAMA AND MEDVEDEV MEET
President Obama and President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, in their first meeting, vowed a ''fresh start'' in relations and said they would cooperate on a variety of issues, beginning with a new arms control treaty. PAGE A13
Hillary Clinton Takes a Back Seat A14
PROTEST TURNS VIOLENT IN LONDON
A peaceful march of about 4,000 protesters in London's financial district turned suddenly into a pitched battle between 40 to 50 riot police officers on foot and horseback and a few hundred protesters. PAGE A14
Correction: April 3, 2009, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A capsule summary on Thursday for an article in The Arts about next season's productions by a New York opera company that has faced financial and administrative turmoil misidentified the company. It is New York City Opera, not the Metropolitan Opera.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg. A2
 pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); LITIGATION (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BIOLOGY (74%); MARINE MAMMALS (74%); WILDLIFE (74%); MAMMALS (74%); MAMMALOGY (74%); MARINE BIOLOGY (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); FIREARMS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HEPATITIS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); HEPATITIS C (68%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES SUGAR CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311314 CANE SUGAR MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2061 CANE SUGAR EX. REFINING (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (65%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); ARNE DUNCAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAQ (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



40 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 438 words

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
CITY OFFERS TO BUY
Coney Island Land
Less than 24 hours before a City Council hearing Wednesday on the city's redevelopment plans for Coney Island, the Bloomberg administration offered to pay $105 million for roughly 10 acres owned by a developer with a rival plan for amusements, hotels, housing and shops. 
The offer, delivered by letter to the developer, Joseph J. Sitt, is $5 million less than what the city offered in November when the two sides held semi-secret settlement talks. Mr. Sitt essentially ignored that offer and flew off to Israel.
It does not appear that the city's latest offer, which is based on declining land prices in Brooklyn, will break the impasse. The offer is sponsored by Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr., who is closely aligned with Mr. Sitt.
''My position is that we won't talk to them until they come down to $100 million,'' said Mr. Sitt's lawyer, Jesse Masyr, his tongue planted firmly in his cheek.
Striking a tougher note, Mr. Masyr said, ''Our number is north of $130 million.''
Mr. Masyr acknowledged that the city might be correct in saying Mr. Sitt paid a total of about $93 million for the land.
But, he added, that was several years ago. Mr. Sitt wants to be compensated for his costs since then.
The city has proposed a permanent 9.4-acre amusement district near the Boardwalk in Coney Island, as well as hotels along Surf Avenue, entertainment-related retail shops, and housing.
Mr. Sitt has sought to build hotels closer to the water and to provide space for large retailers like Costco and some amusements.
During the standoff, Mr. Sitt has evicted many of the amusements and shops that remain in Coney Island.
The Bloomberg administration views Mr. Sitt as a speculator, not a developer, who is out to make money on the land.CHARLES V. BAGLI
COMMENTS
OF THE DAY
New Taxes Will Push
Pack of Cigarettes to $9
''All the state and city are doing is forcing people like me to spend a little more time to get our smokes, and denying the corner bodega my business.''
-- Steve Weinstein
''I condone 'excessive' taxes on smoking. I condone whatever gets clouds of lunchtime carcinogens away from our office foyer doors.''
-- Douglas Crets
''More in tax than in product price? Ridiculous. Aren't all of you happy to gouge an unpopular group?''
-- Lori Parkman
ALSO
ON THE BLOG
Tattoos and Job Prospects: At Strive, a job-readiness program in East Harlem, some are in need of an employment makeover. Interview etiquette is taught, and do-rags and sneakers are replaced by suits and ties.
For job seekers with vestiges of street life inked on, officials have added a lesson in how to cover conspicuous tattoos with makeup.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES)
 Makeup covers a tattoo on Frank Rivera, a job seeker.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (88%); EVICTION (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); CARCINOGENS (61%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



41 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Everglades Restoration Plan Shrinks

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Gary Fineout contributed reporting from Tallahassee, Fla.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- The Everglades have become yet another victim of the shrinking economy.
Gov. Charlie Crist announced Wednesday that Florida would significantly scale back its $1.34 billion deal to restore the Everglades by buying 180,000 acres from the United States Sugar Corporation.
At a news conference in Tallahassee, Mr. Crist outlined a far more modest proposal: $530 million for 72,500 acres, with an option to buy the rest by 2019. 
''We feel this is the best opportunity, the best financial scenario we can present,'' Mr. Crist said, adding, ''The economy has been what it has been, and we have to deal with the parameters we are given.''
The new proposal, if approved by the South Florida Water Management District and the board of United States Sugar, would amount to the second major revision of a plan that began last June as a purchase of United States Sugar, all assets included, for $1.75 billion.
Back then, state officials and environmentalists described the buyout as ''the holy grail'' of restoration because it would put the country's largest sugar grower out of business and revive the water flow between Lake Okeechobee and the Everglades.
They continued to praise the plan, with some caveats, when the water management district approved the smaller $1.34 billion deal for just land in December, and on Wednesday, many Everglades advocates offered tacit acceptance, dressed up as excitement.
Kirk Fordham, chief executive of the Everglades Foundation, said he was ''overjoyed'' because the transaction would keep the land from being used for mining, development or other non-environmental uses.
Thomas Van Lent, a senior scientist at the Everglades Foundation, described the deal as ''a pretty good down payment.''
The proposal says that within a year 32,000 acres of land currently used for citrus would be available to the state for water storage and treatment.
The other 40,500 acres in the purchase would continue to be farmed by United States Sugar for at least seven years, with the company leasing it back for $150 an acre each year, up from the $50 per acre approved in December.
Robert Coker, a senior vice president with United States Sugar, said the increase in rent was an answer to critics of the earlier deal, who said the state was giving the company too much of a discount off the market rate for agricultural land.
Mr. Coker and state officials said the deal would protect the roughly 1,700 jobs that the company provides, at least for now, and includes a possible grant of 3,000 acres to the towns whose economies could be affected by the deal.
Mali Chamness, the mayor of Clewiston, where United States Sugar has been based since the 1930s, said she feared that most workers would eventually be laid off.
And in fact, a full purchase of the company's land is still the goal, executives and Florida officials say. The state will have 10 years to follow through on an option to buy the remaining 107,500 acres, with a possible extension of another decade. If other bidders come forward, the state has a right to match the best offer.
Carol Wehle, executive director of the South Florida Water Management District, which will manage the acquisition, said that she was confident the state could afford the current plan with a bond issue, but that it was as far as officials could go at this point.
''In light of the economic times,'' Ms. Wehle said, ''it was a great opportunity to preserve the acquisition and not walk away from it.''
Still, Mr. Van Lent -- who had estimated that the Everglades needed 130,000 acres of United States Sugar's land -- said it was not enough. ''If we settle for less,'' he said, ''what are the consequences?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cane being cut in Clewiston, Fla., in fields owned by the United States Sugar Corporation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) MAP: Half a Rescue: Gov. Charlie Crist announced a scaled back plan to acquire 72,500 acres of agricultural land owned by the United States Sugar Corporation for Everglades restoration, with an option to buy the remaining 107,500 acres in the original plan by 2019.(Source: South Florida Water Management District) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAND RECLAMATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); SUGAR FARMING (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); MAYORS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); WATER QUALITY (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); LAKES (67%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES SUGAR CORP (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311314 CANE SUGAR MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2061 CANE SUGAR EX. REFINING (85%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



42 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales For March Offer Hope

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting from Houston.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- New-vehicle sales fell in March for a 17th consecutive month, but carmakers said that proposed federal incentives and reports from dealers of increased sales in the last week of the month could mean the market was bottoming out.
Sales were generally better than analysts expected, even for General Motors and Chrysler, which are fighting to avoid bankruptcy with the help of billions of dollars in government loans. 
The two companies reported another month of lower American sales; G.M.'s were 45 percent lower than March 2008, and Chrysler's were down 39 percent. But the two automakers said showroom traffic improved considerably the last week, as the potential for a G.M. or Chrysler bankruptcy rose.
Chrysler posted its highest sales total in six months, and G.M.'s sales were 23 percent higher than in February. G.M. said it made more sales Tuesday -- after the Obama administration forced G.M.'s chief executive to resign and set a 60-day deadline for the company to more aggressively restructure or go bankrupt -- than on the last day of any month since September.
President Obama, in announcing that he was committed to ensuring the auto industry's survival and that the government would guarantee warranties for G.M. and Chrysler vehicles, ''may have given the whole industry a lift,'' said Michael C. DiGiovanni, G.M.'s chief sales analyst.
''Obama's assurance that he was backing us and Chrysler may have had a halo effect on people feeling more confident about the whole car industry,'' he said. ''Obama may have reassured consumers in general.''
Automakers think one of the best opportunities to improve sales might be a proposed incentive program for consumers who buy fuel-efficient vehicles and give up older, less efficient ones. G.M., Ford and Chrysler estimated that the program -- called Cash for Clunkers -- could generate 500,000 to 1.5 million new sales.
Jesse Toprak, executive director of industry analysis at the auto Web site Edmunds.com, said he was unsure how effective the proposal would be but that none of the usual tricks were working in this recession. ''It is clear that there's a real need to stimulate demand in this industry,'' Mr. Toprak said.
Over all, industry sales fell 37 percent in March from a year ago, but they rose nearly 25 percent from February's 27-year low, the biggest February-to-March increase since 2005.
The Ford Motor Company, the only Detroit automaker not taking federal aid, reported a 41 percent decline. Sales fell 39 percent at Toyota, 38 percent at Nissan and 36 percent at Honda.
Both G.M. and Chrysler offered big discounts -- an average of nearly $5,000 a vehicle, according to Edmunds.com -- to lure buyers into dealerships last month. But such incentives have been largely ineffective in recent months, so many analysts expected the companies to fare worse.
''The G.M. brand, it's dinged big time,'' Mr. DiGiovanni said. ''In terms of considering a G.M. vehicle -- when you use the umbrella corporate name, G.M. -- it's down, big time. But when you look at Chevrolet, Cadillac or our other brands, they haven't changed.''
If G.M. does end up in bankruptcy protection, however, dealers expect customers to be far more hesitant.
''People are just going to shy away from a bankrupt company,'' said Denny Fitzpatrick, who owns a Chevrolet and Hummer dealership near Oakland, Calif. ''People are afraid of the warranty and getting parts,'' despite the promises from G.M. and President Obama, he said.
Although sales have not fallen more as the prospects for G.M. and Chrysler have dimmed, dealers say their businesses cannot begin to attract many customers until the flood of bad news about the industry and the economy begins to subside.
''It does nothing to instill any confidence in consumers,'' said Annette Sykora, a Ford and Chrysler dealer in Texas and former chairwoman of the National Automobile Dealers Association. ''It's hard to say how many people are not coming in because of the headlines, and those who do come in are extremely concerned and cautious.''
G.M. and Ford introduced programs this week aimed at consumers who stayed away from dealerships because they were concerned about the economy or their own job security.
The programs -- ''G.M. Total Confidence'' runs at least through the end of April, while the ''Ford Advantage Plan'' is good through June 1 -- cover some monthly payments for buyers who lose their jobs. G.M. also will help buyers trade in or sell their vehicles at least three years later by covering any gap between the vehicle's value and the outstanding loan balance.
The programs are similar to one that the Korean automaker, Hyundai, began in January. Hyundai has gained more market share in the United States this year than any other car company.
''It is clear that consumers are sitting on the sideline because of concerns about employment,'' said George Pipas, Ford's chief sales analyst. ''There were customers coming in and looking at products but just couldn't pull the trigger.''
Japanese automakers are struggling as well. Honda said this week it would reduce pay for North American workers, offer buyouts and cut production by 62,000 vehicles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fadi Bidawid, business manager of Superior Pontiac, Buick, GMC dealership in Dearborn, Mich.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Hyundai Sonata
Chevrolet Impala (pg. B4) CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
Most Popular Cars and Trucks
 How the Automakers Fared (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011



43 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Second Quarter Commences With a Rally

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street continued to rally Wednesday, lifting shares from some of their worst levels in more than a decade.
Investors essentially shrugged off a report that said the economy had lost 742,000 jobs in the private sector in March. Instead, they seemed to focus on an increase in the number of pending home sales, and a slight rise in a survey of manufacturing conditions. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which fell more than 100 points at the open, rose 152.68 points, or 2 percent, to 7,761.60. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 13.21 points, or 1.66 percent, to 811.08, while the Nasdaq composite index gained 23.01 points, or 1.51 percent, to 1,551.60.
''Any given day is subject to this outsized bear market rally volatility,'' said Douglas Peta, an independent market strategist. ''Although the economic data were disappointing, they were not as bad as people's worst fear. They were not quite as bad as the whisper number.''
Telecommunications companies and businesses that make raw materials like plastics and chemicals led the gains, and major banks like JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs finished higher.
Shares of several automakers also rose, even as the companies reported another dismal month of sales in March.
Despite the strong start to the second quarter of the year for markets, analysts wondered how long the momentum would last.
''Every week that goes by they get more and more uncertain that this is just another dead cat bounce, another bear trap,'' said Randy Cass, founder of First Coverage.
Analysts said that investors also seemed to be speculating that the Financial Accounting Standards Board would change accounting standards that govern how companies value their assets. The board, which has been under pressure to ease mark-to-market accounting rules, will meet Thursday.
Investors were also awaiting the outcome of the Group of 20 meeting in London being attended by President Obama and other leaders.
Mr. Obama, appearing with the British prime minister, Gordon Brown, tried to play down talk of a rift between the United States and European nations as they try to repair their economies.
Even though markets surged higher, the new employment data increased worries about the government's release of monthly unemployment statistics on Friday.
Economists estimate the government will report 660,000 job losses in March, and that the unemployment rate will climb to 8.5 percent, from 8.1 percent.
Businesses with more than 500 workers cut 128,000 jobs, while small and medium-size companies slashed 614,000 positions, according to the report from Automatic Data Processing and Macroeconomic Advisers.
Although investors have seized on glimmers of hope in recent reports on retail spending, factory orders and consumer prices, the jobs report from ADP underscored the relentless weakness in the labor market. Some 4.4 million jobs have vanished since the recession began in December 2007, and economists expect that the unemployment rate will crest at 10 percent.
The price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 2/32, to 100 26/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 2.65 percent, from 2.66 percent late Tuesday.
Following are the results of Wednesday's auction of 13-day and 56-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 The Favorites 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); ACCOUNTING (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (61%); AUTOMAKERS (51%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (65%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); ADP (NASDAQ) (65%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (65%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011



44 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Pushed to Act, House G.O.P. Pitches a Budget

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republicans on Wednesday offered a budget vision sharply at odds with the Democratic proposal, calling for sweeping tax cuts, major changes in Medicare and a suspension of the economic stimulus program.
The Republican plan, introduced after days of ridicule from Democrats about the absence of an alternative to President Obama's proposal, would also freeze most domestic spending for five years, increase Pentagon spending, permanently extend the Bush-era tax breaks and eliminate any taxes on successful investments in 2010 as a way to spur the economy. Republicans said they would spend $4.8 trillion less than Democrats over 10 years.
''This is our budget, with real policies and real numbers,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee. ''It gives Americans a real choice for a better pathway forward.'' 
The House proposal came as the Senate went on record against a procedural maneuver that would allow lawmakers to fast-track legislation on climate change this year.
The Republican budget has no chance of passing as Democratic majorities in the House and Senate press for approval of their own $3.5 trillion spending plans by the end of the week. But House Republicans, breaking with Senate Republican leaders, calculated that offering their alternative could bolster their credibility and quell criticism that they had become the ''Party of No.''
A group of Senate Republicans led by Senator John McCain of Arizona proposed its own budget alternative that would freeze federal spending except for military and veterans programs.
After goading Republicans into coming up with a budget, Democrats immediately described it as badly flawed, saying it contained draconian cuts that Americans -- and even some Republican lawmakers -- would not support. They said it marked a return to the same style of tax-cutting economics that contributed to the current financial crisis and noted wryly that it was unveiled on April 1.
''If this is an April Fool's joke, it is not very funny,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, who is helping shepherd the administration budget through Congress.
Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina and chairman of the Budget Committee, said the Republican plan to cut trillions of dollars in federal spending could severely curtail Medicare, which Republicans would overhaul for Americans now younger than 55 by subsidizing private health insurance for them when they retire. Democrats also pointed to a $22 billion reduction in spending on education as another objectionable element.
''What they're proposing far exceeds anything that's ever been accomplished before and will require deep, eviscerating cuts,'' Mr. Spratt said.
Under the Republican plan, Americans would also be offered a choice of staying under the current income tax system with its opportunities for claiming deductions or file under a new, simplified system. Families could choose to pay 10 percent on their adjusted gross income of up to $100,000 and 25 percent on income above that level.
Even with the spending reductions and other changes proposed by the Republicans, their plan would still leave annual deficits of about $500 billion, not much lower than the Democratic plans -- a fact that Mr. Ryan said reflected the country's dire economic situation. Republicans said their approach was far preferable to Democratic plans since it put less of a burden on present and future taxpayers.
''For those Americans who are worried about their jobs and losing their health care, our budget is for you,'' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 House Republican.
As they approached what they hoped was a final day of budget debate on Thursday, senators agreed Wednesday by a vote of 67 to 31 to support a proposal by Senator Mike Johanns, Republican of Nebraska, to bar a procedure that would have prohibited filibusters against climate change legislation developed in line with the budget.
Mr. Johanns argued that the procedure was meant to approve deficit-cutting provisions, but ''was never really designed to pass complex legislation like climate change.''
Democrats said they had no intention of using the fast-track process for a climate change bill. But the vote, with 26 Democrats backing Mr. Johanns, showed how reluctant many centrist Democrats might be to use the shortcut on health care and education policy. That opposition could complicate budget talks with the House, which has endorsed the approach.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Paul D. Ryan presenting the Republican spending plan on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator Mitch McConnell, with other Republican lawmakers, discussing the budget Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); VETERANS (64%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); JOHN SPRATT (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



45 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: An Industry Rescue That Could Be Nearly Free (Yes, There's a Catch)

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD; Cornelia Dean contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
Officials in Washington are moving to revitalize yet another faltering American industry: the business of making the communications satellites that hover above Earth and knit the planet into a global community.
But this rescue would not cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars. In fact it could be virtually free -- if Congressional Democrats succeed in lifting export controls that classify satellite technology as weapons and have handicapped American manufacturers since the last days of the Clinton administration.
House hearings on the controls are to begin Thursday. Proponents of change are optimistic, pointing to a campaign pledge by President Obama and the support of respected figures like Brent Scowcroft, national security adviser to Presidents Gerald R. Ford and George Bush.
But the export revision is by no means a sure thing. The national security arguments cited in imposing the limits still resonate with conservatives who believe strict regulation is needed to keep China and other countries from stealing secret technology. 
Since the rules took effect in 1999, the legal complications involved in selling commercial communications satellites and components abroad have contributed to a sharp decline in American companies' share of the market, from nearly 90 percent to about 50 percent. The drop in sales has coincided with a reversal in America's balance of trade in high technology, which went negative in 2002 and has stayed there.
During the presidential campaign, Mr. Obama issued a policy statement that faulted the rules as having ''unduly hampered the competitiveness of the domestic aerospace industry'' and cost the nation billions of dollars. As president, he said, he would push for change.
Now the administration is tapping a leading proponent of export revisions, Representative Ellen O. Tauscher, a California Democrat who is chairwoman of the centrist, 67-member New Democrat Coalition. Ms. Tauscher recently announced that she would give up her House seat to become under secretary of state for arms control and international security -- a key post overseeing the export bureaucracy.
Before her nomination, Ms. Tauscher said the issue was one of her top priorities. ''It's an enormously big deal,'' she said in an interview.
But some lawmakers still have jitters about putting satellites into the hands of Washington's adversaries, and in particular those of Beijing.
''In the political environment we operate in, China is the third rail,'' Thomas C. Moore, a satellite export specialist for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told a Washington conference in November. ''We have members who know China tests weapons in space, and they don't want to be accused of giving them any assistance.''
Advocates of easing the export rules say they have damaged rather than enhanced national security and hobbled a field that was once a proud symbol of American innovation.
The first communications satellite to soar into stationary orbit was invented by Harold A. Rosen, then an engineer at Hughes Space and Communications. It flew in 1964.
Once as small as wash tubs, the satellites now can rival a truck in size, weigh tons and cost $200 million. In space, their solar panels can unfurl to half the length of a football field. Each year, 10 to 30 are sold.
From a height of 22,300 miles, the spacecraft beam signals over vast distances, relaying trillions of phone calls and linking ships to shore and soldiers to families. They send electronic school lessons to rural Africa, the Olympic Games live around the globe and convey TV shows to broadcasters, cable operators and homes equipped with dish antennas.
The spacecraft have been honored as quiet forces promoting development and democratic values.
Jonathan McDowell, a Harvard astronomer who tracks satellites, said the United States had built 428 of the craft launched successfully into orbit -- the vast majority. It sold one-third to other nations, which typically used the satellites as stepping stones to development.
In 1984, a European rocket lofted one of the American craft, starting a trend to launcher globalization.
The strict export controls arose from a political fight over how far to open the field to China, which in the 1980s began offering cheap rides into orbit on low-cost rockets. A main issue was whether Beijing could be trusted, like a letter carrier, to make deliveries without peeking inside.
President Ronald Reagan approved three satellite transfers to China. The first President Bush permitted nine more.
President Bill Clinton sought to regularize such exports. In early 1996, he directed that the licensing shift from the State Department to the Commerce Department, signaling the importance of economics.
Starting in early 1998, a series of upsets brought the expanding trade to a halt.
Two American satellite makers -- Hughes and Loral -- were accused of illegally giving China advice about making not only commercial rockets, but also military missiles.
As a federal grand jury investigated, the Republicans, who controlled Congress, held hearings. They warned that satellite exports threatened a hemorrhage of secret materials and information, and said that China might have already stolen encryption secrets.
''It's critical that safeguards are in place,'' Senator John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the Senate commerce committee, said at a hearing in September 1998.
A month later, the Republicans attached to a defense bill a rider that sought to license commercial satellites as weapons and give Congress authority to supervise the exports.
Mr. Clinton, weakened by calls for his impeachment, signed the bill into law. But he called the move unnecessary, saying it threatened to ''hamper the U.S. satellite industry.''
Many Democrats and aerospace experts agreed.
''They were out to get Clinton,'' said James A. Lewis, a former Commerce Department official now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''It really didn't have anything to do with export controls or national security.''
The new regulations quickly hurt American satellite makers. Boeing lost a $450 million order. Canadian firms pulled out of at least four projects.
In June 2000, William A. Reinsch, then an under secretary of commerce, told the Senate that, from 1998 to 1999, satellite export sales had fallen by 40 percent. The drop, Mr. Reinsch said, harms ''the high-tech industries upon which our military and intelligence agencies depend.''
The decline accelerated as other countries, driven by pride and the allure of profits, joined the business. Around 2002, Alcatel Space, based in France, started building communication satellites free of American parts and thus free of American export restrictions. It soon landed a $145 million order from China. Other satellite makers joined the de-Americanizing trend.
The ''anachronistic restrictions,'' Manmohan Singh, India's prime minister, told his nation's space scientists, have ''spurred you to greater heights.'' India now has many communications satellites in orbit, and a science probe circling the Moon.
In 2003 -- as American satellite exports fell to $215 million from $1.05 billion in 1998 -- the Commerce Department reported that the nation's annual balance of trade in high technology goods had declined for the first time. Hughes, the satellite pioneer (now a unit of Boeing), had 11 commercial satellite orders in 1998 and none in 2007, according to Futron, an aerospace consulting firm in Washington.
''The United States invented this industry,'' said Peggy Slye, director for space and telecommunications at Futron. ''To see that lead eroded because of regulatory policy is very regrettable.''
The losses are even potentially risky. Congressional investigators examined the military's growing reliance on foreign communication satellites and warned that technical and political upheaval ''could affect the availability.'' Some commercial satellites had already suffered intentional disruption, the report said.
In January, the National Research Council, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, called relaxation of the export policies a matter of urgency. The rules, it said in a report, weaken national security and discourage innovation, isolating domestic industries in ''a self-destructive strategy of obsolescence and declining economic competitiveness.''
Mr. Scowcroft, the former national security adviser who is the report's co-chairman, said the government should reverse itself and assume that technology and information are harmless unless proven otherwise.
''Instead of saying, 'Is it all right to let this bit of information out?' we should say, 'Is there any compelling reason why we should not?' '' he said in an interview. ''Our default position ought to be openness.''
Some analysts still urge extreme caution. Baker Spring, a national security analyst with the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington, advocates a country-by-country approach in which close allies could buy or launch satellites but not nations like China.
The hearing on Thursday, before the House Foreign Affairs trade subcommittee, features supporters and critics. But its chairman, Representative Brad J. Sherman, a California Democrat, told a satellite conference in Washington last week that the hope of new jobs could spur regulatory change.
Dr. Rosen, the technology's inventor, who at 83 still consults for Boeing, said he believed that the policy would shift and that the industry would rebound.
''I'm an optimist,'' he said. ''The reason I keep consulting is that I enjoy interacting with the young engineers, and they're as good as ever.''
Correction: April 4, 2009, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Thursday with an article about export controls on satellite technology referred incorrectly to the launching of the Galaxy IIIC communication satellite, built by Boeing. It was launched in 2002; it is not ''scheduled for a late-May launch.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The inventor Harold A. Rosen, on the right, with a mock-up of his Syncom communications satellite in 1961. Increased sophistication since then has helped bring about considerable changes in size, as with the Galaxy IIIC, scheduled for launching in May.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOEING) CHARTS: Fewer Satellite Orders: Since export restrictions took effect in 1999, American companies have had a reduced share of the market for large commercial satellites.(Source: Futron Corp.) Chart details bar graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SPACE WEAPONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%)

PERSON: ELLEN O TAUSCHER (76%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) EARTH (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



46 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Lack of Mergers Idling Lawyers

BYLINE: By LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN, ROB COX and HUGO DIXON

 BODY:
Bankers may be suffering but Wall Street's legions of legal eagles, many of whom are assembling at Tulane University's corporate law conference in New Orleans this week, may need an extra rum swizzle, too. The decline in deal-making has also taken a bite out of their business. 
 That's not to say lawyers aren't busy. With Ponzi schemes unfurling and trillions lost in the markets, there's lots of litigating to go around. And the emerging wave of bankruptcies will also keep reorganization experts busy for years to come. 
But one of the most lucrative corners of the legal profession has been the corporate finance practice, where billable hours were often bolstered by other fees. Takeover volumes have fallen by nearly a third, with the first quarter the slowest in half a decade.
 These are the legal counselors advising companies and their bankers on the ins and outs of corporate bylaws, represent them in front of the Delaware chancery courts and counseling directors on their fiduciary obligations. 
 Same goes for the lawyers assembling the thousands of pages of risk factors and legal boilerplate that companies raising capital include in their filings. Equity issuance in the first quarter slid 74 percent from a year ago, according to the investment adviser Dealogic. With no registration statements to vet, there are no hours for lawyers to bill.
 To cope, a few firms, like Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft and Latham & Watkins, have laid off staff members -- an unusual move in the profession that typically competes heavily for talent.
 Others are encouraging staff members to brush off their legal tomes and bone up on the bankruptcy code. But unlike redeploying a banker from kowtowing to private equity barons to revamping their busted companies, learning the intricacies of Chapter 11 is akin to learning a new language. That's why quite a few law firms have simply told their associates to take the year off. White & Case, for example, is offering $45,000 to incoming associates to defer their employment at the beach. If they spend the year doing charity work instead, they'll be paid $75,000. 
 This approach allows the firms to reduce costs when activity is slow while still retaining an option on human talent. Whether the Wall Street drought finishes soon enough for those options to be in the money is anybody's guess. 
 Misplaced Blame
 The world faces a crisis of finance, not a crisis of capitalism. As protesters gather to denounce capitalism on the occasion of the G-20 summit in London, it's worth remembering that free markets and free trade are not to blame for the current economic mess. 
 The real culprit has been skewed financial incentives. These distortions have operated on four levels. First, there has been an imbalance in world trade, with giant surpluses in China matched by deficits elsewhere. That allowed borrowers to rack up huge debts. It was not a natural phenomenon of the free market. It was at least partly the result of China's decision to keep its currency artificially low to benefit its exporters. 
 Second, there has been the habit of bailing out the financial system whenever it hit trouble. Investors used to talk about the ''Greenspan put'' in recognition of the fact that the former Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, could always be relied upon to squirt money on the markets at the first sign of trouble. This also distorted the market. It numbed investors' fear, leading to excessive risks, and added cheap credit in the West to the liquidity pouring in from the East. 
 Third, there was the inherent distortion in having banks that were ''too big to fail.'' Banks sailed too close to the wind because they knew the authorities would bail them out. The antidote was to either cut them down to size so they could fail safely or to regulate them more tightly. Instead, banks got bigger and were deregulated. 
 Fourth, there were the lopsided incentive plans for the financiers themselves. If their bets paid off, they stood to become multimillionaires. If they lost, shareholders and ultimately taxpayers would pick up the bill. Some culprits have even been able to walk away with fat bonuses and enhanced pensions. 
 This is not the free market. It is an asymmetry that turned finance into a casino. 
 The G-20 protesters ought to blame distortions rather than the free market. And world leaders should aim to fix those distortions so the world never faces this mayhem again.
 LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN, ROB COX and HUGO DIXON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters denouncing capitalism broke windows at a Royal Bank of Scotland branch on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEON NEAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); LITIGATION (71%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (68%); CHARITIES (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); PONZI SCHEMES (56%)

COMPANY: CADWALADER WICKERSHAM & TAFT LLP (91%); LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (91%); WHITE & CASE LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



47 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DAMASCUS JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Syria Finds Right Ingredients to Start a Stock Market From Scratch

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria 

 BODY:
''A different Syria, a good Syria,'' say the huge, glossy billboards that have begun appearing all over this city. 
 The signs are not about political reform, or this country's much-touted re-engagement with the West. Instead, they are advertisements for the new Damascus Securities Exchange, which opened last month on a hillside on the edge of town. 
 It may seem a little quixotic to open a stock exchange in the middle of the worst global financial crisis in decades. For the moment, it looks more like a sleepy college library than a booming bourse, with trading -- indirectly controlled by the government -- only five hours a week and share price fluctuations limited to 2 percent per day. There are only six stocks on the market, and in the first weeks, only one was traded. 
 But for many Syrians, the fledgling exchange represents a long-deferred dream of economic liberalization and prosperity after decades of socialism and isolation. 
 In a sense, it is a return to Syria's roots: trade has always been at the center of this city, with its famous souks and its mercantile elite. Syria had the first central bank in the Middle East, and a thriving informal stock market until the late 1950s, when it unified with Egypt and adopted an austere socialist creed. 
 ''It's a baby that will grow,'' said Abdullah Dardari, the deputy prime minister and chief architect of Syria's economic reform program. 
 It was not born easily. Some members of the Syrian leadership still resist the move to a market economy. Economic sanctions applied by the Bush administration in 2004 forced the firm chosen to operate the exchange to withdraw, delaying the project by a year. Many international investors say pervasive corruption and the lack of financial regulations here are keeping them away.
 But socialist self-sufficiency is no longer an option for Syria. The oil reserves that once provided the mainstay of state revenues are running out. Exports have tumbled in recent months, as have remittances sent home by Syrian expatriate workers. 
 Over the next decade, Syria will need $45 billion to $50 billion of public investment to continue its move ''from a centrally planned, low-efficiency economy to high-efficiency investment-based economy,'' Mr. Dardari said. It is not clear where that money will come from. 
 One way to draw in more foreign capital would be to make a political deal with the West -- cutting off Syria's support for groups like Hamas and Hezbollah in exchange for, among other things, the removal of American economic sanctions. 
 Some analysts have even suggested that Syria's economic challenges will force it to make such a deal. But interviews with Syrian officials here make clear they do not see it that way. 
 ''Syria, no matter how bad the economy, will not bargain,'' Mr. Dardari said. ''In the 1980s we used to have to queue for Kleenex, but we did not bargain.'' 
 Mr. Dardari and others say the American sanctions have had only a minor effect on Syria, which has little direct trade with the United States. Europe is far more significant, and Syria is eagerly pursuing a trade agreement with the European Union that is likely to be signed this year. Trade with Turkey -- perhaps Syria's closest ally -- is also growing, to almost $2 billion in 2008 from less than $500 million in 2004. 
 Still, the new stock exchange represents the aspirations of a younger, business-oriented generation for whom economic prosperity may ultimately trump Syria's longstanding support for militant groups. Many young entrepreneurs are descendants of the old Sunni Muslim mercantile elite of this city, who still tend to dominate in business. 
 In recent years, this younger generation has helped transform the face of Damascus, with new restaurants, bars, nightclubs and boutique hotels. The economy has grown despite the American sanctions, and private banks, first reintroduced in 2004, are becoming more prevalent. 
 Syria's isolation has had one salutary effect: The financial crisis has hardly been felt, because there is so little financial activity and the banks are so highly regulated.
 ''We are happy to launch at a low point,'' said Bassel S. Hamwi, a deputy chairman at Bank Audi who sits on the board of the new exchange. ''Stocks have only one direction to go.''
 On a recent day at the exchange, a crowd of well-dressed young people stood on a red carpet in the front hall, gazing excitedly down at the trading floor. Behind glass partitions, five traders who looked bored were sitting at their desks, waiting for calls. A huge digital screen showed the six available stocks and the volume traded up to that point: 10 shares of Bemo Bank, at 950 Syrian pounds (just under $20) per share.
 One broker, Faisal Qusibati, stared at the screen, waiting for his phone to ring. 
 ''Everything in the beginning is hard,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Stocks have only one direction to go,'' said a board member of the exchange. The financial crisis has hardly been felt in Syria.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OLA AL-RIFAI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); HAMAS (60%); HEZBOLLAH (60%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%) SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



48 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Hoping for Calm, City Opera Unveils Five-Show Season

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
New York City Opera, struggling to shed financial and administrative turmoil, took a step forward on Wednesday, announcing its first operatic season since essentially shutting down a year ago during renovations to its home at Lincoln Center.
 In 2009-10 the company will present a tasting menu -- just five productions -- symbolic of its traditions: modern works (Hugo Weisgall's ''Esther''), new productions (''Don Giovanni'' in a staging by Christopher Alden), the underperformed (Chabrier's ''Etoile''), war horses (''Madama Butterfly'') and Baroque works (Handel's ''Partenope'').
 ''It was really a question of making a season that would remind people of all the wonderful things City Opera stands for,'' George R. Steel, the general manager and artistic director, who took over those positions in January, said in an interview. The operas will be staged at the company's home, the David H. Koch Theater, where renovations have been in progress. 
 Most of the choices had already been mentioned in the blogosphere. In making the official announcement, City Opera provided few details of casting or about its financial state. 
 The five operas -- two in the fall and three in the spring -- represent a significant retreat from the last full season, in 2007-8, when City Opera put on six new productions and seven revivals. But Mr. Steel promised that 2010-11 would be more robust. ''I'm hopeful we'll return to our right size,'' he said.
 City Opera has been through a turbulent time. The company and its previous leader, Gerard Mortier, who pushed for the renovation of the house and promised sweeping changes, parted ways suddenly in November. Meanwhile, the sinking economy and loss of revenue from the current canceled season have combined to create a financial crisis. The company mounted a handful of concerts and concert opera performances this year, as well as hiring out the orchestra for other engagements.
 The budget for next season will shrink to $25 million to $30 million from the $42 million or so of recent years, Mr. Steel said. He could not be more precise, he added, because contracts with the orchestra, the chorus and other members of the musical staff were expiring or up for renegotiation this spring.
 But the pint-size season clearly reflects the company's straitened circumstances. ''We want a sustainable and even conservative budget for the coming year as we return to our full strength the subsequent year,'' Mr. Steel said.
 He declined to provide specific financial figures, although he did say that individual giving was ahead of last year's pace, while corporate giving was down. ''We're in very good health,'' he said.
 The only principal singers for next year named by the company were Lauren Flanigan as Esther, a role she created; Cyndia Sieden as Partenope; and Daniel Okulitch as Giovanni. Mr. Steel said 60 to 70 percent of the season's casting had been completed, and he acknowledged that finding singers with open dates was more difficult than usual because of the short lead time. (Opera roles are often cast years in advance, although the economic crisis has led to cuts at many companies and thus freed some singers.) 
 City Opera will present 33 performances next season, about a third of the usual number, including a season-opening gala concert on Nov. 5. Mr. Steel said members of the New York City Ballet, the company's co-tenant at the Koch Theater, would perform. 
 Several of Mr. Mortier's main ideas have been abandoned, like performing in other places around the city and staging productions consecutively according to the stagione system more common in Europe. Mr. Steel said that he was trying to void contracts with some singers engaged by Mr. Mortier but that others would appear.
 With most of the productions pulled from City Opera's filing cabinet, there is little sense yet of what stamp Mr. Steel will put on the organization. But he has made no secret of his strong desire to bring back ''Esther,'' the last of 10 operas written by Mr. Weisgall, who died in 1997. 
 City Opera gave the work's premiere in 1993. It was considered a major success at the time with audiences and critics but received only two performances. The company had planned to revive it four years later but dropped the idea to save money. Based on the biblical figure, ''Esther'' is a complex and dissonant work, demanding for both performers and audiences. 
 ''I'm overjoyed to be able to do it, particularly to open our season with it,'' Mr. Steel said. ''It's a wonderful opera, seldom seen, and one of New York City Opera's greatest triumphs, to give the world premiere.''
 Mr. Alden, the director of ''Don Giovanni,'' has staged a half-dozen works at City Opera since 1979 and directed Elliott Carter's opera ''What Next?'' at the Miller Theater in 2007, when Mr. Steel was executive director there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George R. Steel, general manager and artistic director of New York City Opera. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RENE PEREZ/NEW YORK CITY OPERA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); THEATER (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



49 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: The High Cost of Prisons

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As ''To Trim Costs, States Relax Hard Line on Prisons'' (front page, March 25) notes, one main impetus for states' efforts to reduce prison populations is the impact that the economic recession is having on state budgets. 
 Many of our states' corrections budgets are out of control. But long-lasting improvement of our criminal justice system won't come from a short-term crisis response to a shrinking budget alone. It will come only as a result of a reorientation in the minds of Americans about the purpose of criminal law in a democracy.
 The criminal justice system is a mechanism that governments use to enforce standards of conduct and protect individuals from harm. The framers of our Constitution took great care to make sure that the rights of those accused and convicted of crimes were protected as well. 
 When the health of our communities requires that wrongdoers be incarcerated, we should not hesitate to do so. But when we choose this form of punishment, we should keep in mind that it will have profound long-lasting consequences for the person incarcerated, his or her family, and the wider community.
 States should take steps to reduce the prison populations not only because they can't afford not to, but also in recognition that incarceration is not an effective long-term solution to our society's crime problem.
 Kara Dansky Oakland, Calif., March 26, 2009
 The writer is the executive director of the Stanford Criminal Justice Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ETHICS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



50 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: A Hedge Against Inflation

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
INFLATION is the scourge of retirement accounts. No matter how much money you salt away today, there is a good chance that it will be worth a lot less in 10 or 20 years. 
 One of the simplest ways to protect a retirement portfolio from the ravages of inflation is to own Treasury inflation-protected securities, known as TIPS, which are directly tied to changes in consumer prices, protecting the investor's principal while also paying interest.
However, if you buy TIPS through a mutual fund, you can be subject to the risks of trading them on the secondary market. These bonds are not immune to volatility, as many investors discovered the hard way last fall. TIPS stumbled badly when, almost overnight, deflation -- a downward spiral of lower prices, lower wages and economic stagnation -- became a bigger worry than inflation. That stumble came from the heights TIPS had reached when oil prices spiked in the summer of 2008, raising inflationary fears. 
 The market for TIPS has recovered since the beginning of the year, and some retirement experts say it is a good time to accumulate these bonds. ''TIPS are true inflation hedges, not phony inflation hedges like gold,'' which can be unpredictable and whose correlation to the consumer price index is often more emotional than direct, said Zvi Bodie, a professor of finance and economics at the Boston University School of Management.
 The Treasury Department, which began selling TIPS in 1997, makes coupon payments to the bondholders every six months -- interest based on the bonds' inflation-adjusted principal, which reflects changes in the Consumer Price Index, rather than on the bonds' original face value.
 At maturity, the Treasury returns to bondholders either the inflation-adjusted principal or the original face value of the bonds, whichever is greater. So if the economy experienced a prolonged bout of deflation, then investors who hold TIPS until they matured would receive the original face value of the bonds, known as par. 
 This sum should be worth more than it was when the bonds were issued, though, because consumer prices would have fallen. 
 But if the TIPS were purchased for more than the price they were issued at, the investor could lose money. On the secondary market, TIPS trade based on widespread expectations for inflation -- or more recently -- deflation.
 Currently, the TIPS market is indicating that bond investors expect deflation to reign over the next two years and prices to remain relatively flat over the next five. Over 10 years, the TIPS market is pricing in an average annual inflation rate of 1.3 percent.
 Professor Bodie recommends owning TIPS in retirement accounts, because they are not tax-efficient when held in taxable accounts. He prefers a TIPS portfolio that is laddered by the purchase of bonds that mature on different dates. 
 But many investors do not own enough bonds to build a laddered portfolio and many employer-sponsored retirement plans offer only mutual funds. In either case, Professor Bodie said that buying a fund that owned TIPS would be a good alternative to owning the bonds directly.
 Michael Herbst, a mutual fund analyst at Morningstar, the financial data company, said some bond funds billed as offering inflation protection included derivatives. Some of those funds suffered double-digit declines during the market turmoil last fall. 
 Mr. Herbst said he favored two funds that invest mostly in TIPS but are allowed to put up to 20 percent of their portfolios into other types of bonds: the Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities Fund, which can invest up to 20 percent in regular Treasury bonds, and the Harbor Real Return Strategy Fund, where about 20 percent of the portfolio is currently invested in a combination of bonds backed by Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored mortgage enterprise, and those issued by financial companies.
 John Hollyer, a co-manager of the Vanguard fund, said TIPS often appealed to investors who were retired, or nearly so, because they were more worried than younger investors about preserving their purchasing power.
 ''But TIPS are also a good way to diversify a portfolio, because their prices tend to move a little out of step with other bonds and stocks,'' Mr. Hollyer said. The Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities Fund fell 2.8 percent last year and had average annual returns of about 5 percent over the last three years. 
 The Harbor Real Return Strategy Fund fell 4 percent last year. It has returned 8 percent so far this year and has had average annual returns of 5 percent over the last three years. 
 Mr. Herbst cautioned that investors who allocated money to TIPS -- or funds that primarily own these bonds -- should consider it a long-term holding. ''TIPS could hit a few bumps in the road if we enter a deflationary environment,'' he said. ''But all the steps the government is taking to help out the financial markets are reinflationary. So it is still an attractive time to build a long-term allocation to TIPS.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TIPS PROPONENT: Zvi Bodie, a professor of finance at Boston University.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); INFLATION (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



51 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Debate and a Senator's Trip to the Hospital Delay Votes on the Budget

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
The continued illness of a Democratic state senator on Wednesday once again stalled votes on budget bills, meaning that final passage of the measure could take at least until the end of the week.
 While the Assembly, dominated by Democrats, finished passing the nine bills that make up the $131.8 billion budget on Wednesday morning, matters in the Senate have been complicated by the narrow 32-to-30 Democratic majority. As Senate Republicans, frustrated by having been almost entirely locked out of the negotiations leading up to the budget deal last weekend, insisted on a full debate over the legislation on Wednesday, the absence of the ill senator deprived Democrats of a crucial vote.
 After passing a single budget bill late Tuesday night, the Senate resumed debate on Wednesday morning. But after hours of discussion, none of the remaining bills had come up for a vote. 
 About 2 p.m., Senate Democrats were forced to adjourn when Ruth Hassell-Thompson, a Democrat representing Westchester and the Bronx, left the Capitol to return to a local hospital for medical attention. Ms. Hassell-Thompson learned on Tuesday afternoon that she had walking pneumonia, but returned to the Capitol later that night to vote on the first budget bill. It was unclear on Wednesday whether she faced more serious health problems.
 The state's Constitution requires 32 votes to pass any bill, and there is little prospect so far that Republicans will offer the Democrats any votes.
 The Senate is expected to reconvene Thursday.
 ''We have every expectation that she will be back tomorrow, but our only concern is for her health,'' Austin Shafran, a Senate Democratic spokesman, said of Ms. Hassell-Thompson.
 There was also evident discontent with the budget among Assembly Democrats, some of whom have complained about the intense secrecy with which Gov. David A. Paterson, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Senate Majority Leader Malcolm A. Smith negotiated a budget deal. 
 In a rare protest, six Assembly Democrats voted against the entire budget, with some saying that its enormous size -- with billions of dollars in new taxes and what critics say are too few tough cuts to spending -- threatens the state's fiscal health. Other blocs of Assembly Democrats voted against nearly all of the budget bills, another sign of discontent. (Traditionally, majority lawmakers wishing to make a point will withhold their votes from only one or two bills.) 
 The six who voted against the whole package were William L. Parment and Sam Hoyt, both from Western New York; Joseph D. Morelle and David Koon, from the Rochester area; Joan K. Christensen, from the Syracuse area; and Michael N. Gianaris, from Queens.
 ''I remain concerned that the growth of government spending in New York is not going to be sustainable given the economic distress we put it under,'' said Mr. Morelle, an influential upstate Democrat who is chairman of the Monroe County party. 
 Those lawmakers and other critics were joined by Thomas P. DiNapoli, the state comptroller, who issued a statement on Wednesday condemning the deal as ''a buy-time budget.''
 ''The budget is not a long-term solution to New York's propensity to spend more than the state can afford,'' Mr. DiNapoli said. ''While the budget proposes to close an unprecedented gap, it does so by an overreliance on nonrecurring federal stimulus funds and new tax revenues projected to materialize at a time of declining tax receipts.''
 Under state law, if the budget does not pass both houses of the Legislature by March 31, Mr. DiNapoli's office is forbidden to issue paychecks to lawmakers. Until the Senate passes the budget, in other words, lawmakers in both houses cannot pick up their paychecks. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Kemp Hannon, left, a Republican from Long Island, spoke Wednesday. Republicans are expected to vote ''nay'' as a bloc.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); PNEUMONIA (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (75%); ALBANY, NY, USA (65%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



52 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: China Vies to Be World's Leader In Electric Cars

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TIANJIN, China 

 BODY:
Chinese leaders have adopted a plan aimed at turning the country into one of the leading producers of hybrid and all-electric vehicles within three years, and making it the world leader in electric cars and buses after that.
 The goal, which radiates from the very top of the Chinese government, suggests that Detroit's Big Three, already struggling to stay alive, will face even stiffer foreign competition on the next field of automotive technology than they do today. 
 ''China is well positioned to lead in this,'' said David Tulauskas, director of China government policy at General Motors.
 To some extent, China is making a virtue of a liability. It is behind the United States, Japan and other countries when it comes to making gas-powered vehicles, but by skipping the current technology, China hopes to get a jump on the next. 
 Japan is the market leader in hybrids today, which run on both electricity and gasoline, with cars like the Toyota Prius and Honda Insight. The United States has been a laggard in alternative vehicles. G.M.'s plug-in hybrid Chevrolet Volt is scheduled to go on sale next year, and will be assembled in Michigan using rechargeable batteries imported from LG in South Korea.
 China's intention, in addition to creating a world-leading industry that will produce jobs and exports, is to reduce urban pollution and decrease its dependence on oil, which comes from the Mideast and travels over sea routes controlled by the United States Navy.
 But electric vehicles may do little to clear the country's smog-darkened sky or curb its rapidly rising emissions of global warming gases. China gets three-fourths of its electricity from coal, which produces more soot and more greenhouse gases than other fuels.
 A report by McKinsey & Company last autumn estimated that replacing a gasoline-powered car with a similar-size electric car in China would reduce greenhouse emissions by only 19 percent. It would reduce urban pollution, however, by shifting the source of smog from car exhaust pipes to power plants, which are often located outside cities.
 Beyond manufacturing, subsidies of up to $8,800 are being offered to taxi fleets and local government agencies in 13 Chinese cities for each hybrid or all-electric vehicle they purchase. The state electricity grid has been ordered to set up electric car charging stations in Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin.
 Government research subsidies for electric car designs are increasing rapidly. And an interagency panel is planning tax credits for consumers who buy alternative energy vehicles.
 China wants to raise its annual production capacity to 500,000 hybrid or all-electric cars and buses by the end of 2011, from 2,100 last year, government officials and Chinese auto executives said. By comparison, CSM Worldwide, a consulting firm that does forecasts for automakers, predicts that Japan and South Korea together will be producing 1.1 million hybrid or all-electric light vehicles by then and North America will be making 267,000.
 The United States Department of Energy has its own $25 billion program to develop electric-powered cars and improve battery technology, and will receive another $2 billion for battery development as part of the economic stimulus program enacted by Congress.
 Premier Wen Jiabao highlighted the importance of electric cars two years ago with his unlikely choice to become minister of science and technology: Wan Gang, a Shanghai-born former Audi auto engineer in Germany who later became the chief scientist for the Chinese government's research panel on electric vehicles. 
 Mr. Wan is the first minister in at least three decades who is not a member of the Communist Party.
 And Premier Wen has his own connection to the electric car industry. He was born and grew up here in Tianjin, the longtime capital of China's battery industry, 70 miles southeast of Beijing.
 Tianjin has thrived in the six years since Mr. Wen became premier. It now has China's first bullet train service (to Beijing), a new Airbus factory and an immaculate new airport. Tianjin has also received a surge of research subsidies for enterprises like the Tianjin-Qingyuan Electric Vehicle Company. 
 Electric cars have several practical advantages in China. Intercity driving is rare. Commutes are fairly short and frequently at low speeds because of traffic jams. So the limitations of all-electric cars -- the latest models in China have a top speed of 60 miles an hour and a range of 120 miles between charges -- are less of a problem.
 First-time car buyers also make up four-fifths of the Chinese market, and these buyers have not yet grown accustomed to the greater power and range of gasoline-powered cars.
 But the electric car industry faces several obstacles here too. Most urban Chinese live in apartments, and cannot install recharging devices in driveways, so more public charging centers need to be set up.
 Rechargeable lithium-ion batteries also have a poor reputation in China. Counterfeit lithium-ion batteries in cellphones occasionally explode, causing injuries. And Sony had to recall genuine lithium-ion batteries in laptops in 2006 and 2008 after some overheated and caught fire or exploded.
 These safety problems have been associated with lithium-ion cobalt batteries, however, not the more chemically stable lithium-ion phosphate batteries now being adapted to automotive use.
 The tougher challenge is that all lithium-ion batteries are expensive, whether made with cobalt or phosphate. That will be a hurdle for thrifty Chinese consumers, especially if gas prices stay relatively low compared to their highs last summer.
 China is tackling the challenges with the same tools that helped it speed industrialization and put on the Olympics: immense amounts of energy, money and people.
 BYD has 5,000 auto engineers and an equal number of battery engineers, most of them living at its headquarters in Shenzhen in a cluster of 15 yellow apartment buildings, each 18 stories high. Young engineers earn less than $600 a month, including benefits. 
 When Tianjin-Qingyuan puts its entirely battery-powered Saibao midsize sedan on sale this autumn, the body will come from a sedan that normally sells for $14,600 when equipped with a gasoline engine. But the engine and gas tank will be replaced with a $14,000 battery pack and electric motor, said Wu Zhixin, the company's general manager.
 That means the retail price will nearly double, to almost $30,000. Even if the government awards the maximum subsidy of $8,800 to buyers, that is a hefty premium.
 Large-scale production could drive down the cost of the battery pack and electric motor by 30 or 40 percent, still leaving electric cars more expensive than gasoline-powered ones, Mr. Wu said.
 But Mr. Wu has plenty of money to pursue improvements. He interrupted an interview at his company's headquarters on Thursday to take a call on his cellphone, politely declined an offer from the caller, and hung up.
 The general manager of a state-controlled bank had called to ask if he needed a loan, he explained. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Tianjin-Qingyuan Electric Vehicle Company, a worker assembles a block of battery packs, top. Above, its Hafei trucks. The company plans to sell a battery-powered sedan this fall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG KANTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (94%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); EMISSIONS (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); SMOG (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); PLANT CAPACITY (65%); NAVIES (64%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



53 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Small Medical Companies, a Font of Innovation, Are Feeling Recession's Pinch

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Mass. 

 BODY:
Until last October, InfraReDx considered itself a symbol of the kind of science-based innovation that creates durable health care industry jobs. 
 Now, InfraReDx represents the perils of the recession for small companies working on promising medical technologies that hospitals and insurers see as experimental. The company, which makes a laser-scanning system that locates signs of heart disease, has been through two rounds of layoffs, reducing its work force to 72 from 92. It would have run out of money this month if its investors had not agreed to a new round of investment.
 ''If you are not the standard device for a treatment, you're in trouble,'' said James Muller, a noted cardiologist and heart disease researcher who founded InfraReDx in 1998 and became its chief executive in 2005. Dr. Muller has been among those lobbying, so far fruitlessly, in favor of directing some of the government's stimulus spending to medical technology companies. 
 Plenty of medical companies are sharing Dr. Muller's pain. PLC Medical Systems, for instance, a company in Franklin, Mass., canceled a scheduled clinical trial last fall of a new hydration and urine collection system to protect patients with impaired kidneys from the side effects of X-ray procedures. ''We had the hospitals and patients ready to go,'' said Mark R. Tauscher, the company's president and chief executive. With the company's stock price trading below a dollar and venture capitalists leery about making new investments, Mr. Tauscher said he realized that PLC might not be able to get the $6 million needed to complete the federally approved trial. He decided to lay off the clinical trial team and concentrate on selling the system in Europe, where it is already approved.
 And OmniSonics Medical Technologies, based in Wilmington, Mass., ceased operations in January. The end came without warning to doctors who were conducting studies on new applications of its federally approved device to break up blood clots with ultrasound pulses. ''They shut it down cold turkey,'' said Paramjit Chopra, an OmniSonics scientific adviser and interventional radiologist in Chicago who had been a leader in the study. ''Nobody returned my calls.'' (Messages requesting further details left last week on the answering machine of Richard G. Ganz, OmniSonics' president and chief executive, were not returned.) 
 The impact of delaying or completely derailing medical innovations is hotly debated. While technology advocates talk of millions of premature deaths, some experts argue that the United States has been overspending on drugs and procedures using expensive medical devices with little to show for it. Most products are approved for sale long before the completion of thorough studies of their value in everyday use. ''Our ability to model and predict the future of medical innovations is improving very slowly,'' said Edward Tenner, a history of technology expert who is currently a visiting scholar at Princeton University.
 But Mr. Tenner, Wall Street analysts and venture capitalists agree that small health care companies are crucial sources of innovation for the industry's larger players and one of the nation's most likely sources of new employment as the economy recovers -- if they survive the recession, that is. ''Right now, access to capital is the story,'' said Steven Rogers, an expert on innovation and entrepreneurship at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. 
 Large companies are also feeling the downturn, of course. Hologic, a publicly traded leader in devices for women's health care (from which InfraReDx recruited Steven L. Nakashige as president and chief operating officer last summer), cut sales projections for 2009 in January as hospitals put off purchases of its newest mammography systems. Intuitive Surgical and Hansen Medical, makers of expensive robotic surgery systems, have also slashed projections for sales of new equipment.
 But smaller companies like InfraReDx often face tougher choices when cash flow dries up. InfraReDx's layoffs included the lead designer of the software that makes sense of the data the scanner acquires. Dr. Muller wants to refine that software, but the designer's success had made him less vital than members of the team working on another project -- development of a new scanner that takes ultrasound images at the same time it acquires the infrared scans. That scanner will be tested in human patients for the first time in April by Patrick Serruys, an internationally renowned cardiologist in Rotterdam. 
 InfraReDx's current scanner is the first approved by federal regulators for locating pools of mushy plaque that many researchers believe account for a high percentage of the 1.2 million heart attacks Americans suffer annually despite having no previous symptoms of heart disease. But researchers have yet to prove the safety and effectiveness of any of the possible methods for containing or removing such pools once they have been located. So far, neither Medicare nor private insurers compensate hospitals for using the scanner.
 Only five hospitals had acquired the big-ticket part of the technology -- a $155,000 control and data display console -- when the recession hit. Those early adapters soon cut way back on the single-use piece inserted in patients -- a $2,400 catheter with a rotating tip that shoots infrared laser light into the wall of the artery and senses how much is reflected back. The system looks for a light pattern indicating the presence of mushy plaque behind a thin cap of fiber. Such formations, which have been called vulnerable plaque, can rupture and leak plaque into the artery. That, in turn, may quickly lead to a lethal clot. 
 After selling no catheters for some weeks last fall, InfraReDx is now up to an average of more than one a day but is spending $30,000 a day, Dr Muller said. He added that four more hospitals had bought the console in recent months. Still, with $87 million already invested and no expectation of profits before 2011 at the earliest, the company anticipates the need to raise $10 million more this year.
 Robert McNeil, managing director of Sanderling Ventures, the investment firm that is the company's largest shareholder and which organized the recent cash infusion, said he foresaw the economic bubble that burst last year. But, he said, there was no way to raise more money in advance to cushion companies like InfraReDx without granting new investors such favorable rates that the valuations of the companies would be drastically reduced. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven Nakishige, left, president of InfraReDx, which makes cardiac diagnostic tools, and James Muller, its chief executive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (78%); RADIOLOGY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MEDICAL LASERS (77%); MEDICAL DEVICES (77%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); CARDIOLOGY (76%); HEART DISEASE (76%); FINANCING ROUNDS (76%); INSURANCE (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); APPROVALS (68%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (57%)

COMPANY: PLC MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



54 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: A Rush for Work Visas Even as Demand Dips

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
The yearly scramble by employers for temporary visas for foreign scientists and technology engineers started on Wednesday, with immigration authorities expecting fewer new petitions this year because of the recession and because of new restrictions on financial companies that received emergency federal aid. 
 For five business days beginning Wednesday, Citizenship and Immigration Services will accept petitions for the temporary visas known as H-1B for the 2010 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. In recent years, visa limits were reached in the first days of the application period. 
 Over the weekend, employers like Microsoft and Cisco Systems rushed to send petitions by express mail and courier services so they would reach the agency when it opened Wednesday. 
 In spite of an expected lull in demand, employers and researchers predicted that the limits would quickly be reached again this year in part because of backlogs from last year. The annual H-1B limit is 65,000 visas, with a few exemptions, including the first 20,000 petitions from immigrants with degrees at the master's level or above from American universities. In 2008, about 163,000 petitions were filed. 
 At many American universities, more than half of graduates with advanced degrees in science and engineering are foreign. ''These visas are really the only practical way for employers to hire them,'' said Stuart Anderson, executive director of the National Foundation for American Policy, who has studied use of the visas. 
 In February, as part of the economic stimulus legislation, Congress added conditions for H-1B visas for banks that received assistance from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, known as TARP. The banks must show that they will not displace an American from a job to be filled by an immigrant for three months before and after the immigrant is hired.
 Bank of America and Merrill Lynch, among others, said that provision led them to rescind small numbers of job offers to graduating foreign students and financial technology engineers.
 In 2008, according to figures from Citizenship and Immigration Services, the top four companies seeking H-1B visas were from India. By far the most visas -- 4,559 --went to Infosys Technologies, a $4 billion company in Bangalore, which used them to place Indian information technology workers in American companies. Microsoft, the first American company on the list, received 1,037 visas last year. 
 One of the biggest Indian companies using H-1B visas last year was Satyam Computer Services, based in Hyderabad. Its founder and chairman, B. Ramalinga Raju, is facing criminal charges in India, accused of inflating his employee rolls by more than 10,000 workers and falsifying accounts by more than $1 billion. The company is up for auction. 
 Indian companies' heavy use of the visas has drawn accusations of fraud from some lawmakers. Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said they intended to introduce a bill this week that would impose stricter hiring terms for all H-1B visas and increase enforcement. The senators said they would not consider raising the numerical limits on the visas until loopholes they had identified were closed. 
 ''With unemployment at rates higher than we've seen in decades, there is no shortage of people looking for work,'' Mr. Grassley said Wednesday, ''so companies should need less H-1B visas than last year.''
 In January, in a move that unsettled the outsourcing industry, federal prosecutors in Iowa brought criminal charges against the Vision Systems Group, a New Jersey company that provides temporary information technology workers to companies in several states. The company is accused of seeking H-1B visas for workers for an office in Iowa that did not exist, and of paying the workers based on the prevailing wage in Iowa, which is lower than in many states where the immigrants actually worked.
 Lawyers for Vision Systems asked the Iowa court on Wednesday to dismiss the case. ''We don't believe that bringing highly trained and highly productive people to work in the U.S. in an industry that is underserved by our own population is or should be a crime,'' a lawyer for the company, Mark Weinhardt, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); PETITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (86%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); CITIZENSHIP (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (71%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%)

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); SATYAM COMPUTER SERVICES LTD (51%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (63%); INFY (NYSE) (63%); INFY (NSE) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); SATYAMCOMP (NSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (63%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (50%); RICHARD DURBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (52%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



55 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; A WORLD OF HURT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3183 words

HEADLINE: System to Resolve Workplace Injury Leaves Ill Will on All Sides

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: TONAWANDA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The sprawling DuPont plant along the Niagara River here can be a grim place, but less so on the days when the company hands out coupons to reward workers for a few weeks without injury.
 Called ''safety bucks,'' the coupons look like real money and can be redeemed at Red Lobster, Home Depot and several other businesses in the area.
 For some workers who risk their fingers and bones to make Corian, the stonelike countertop material that is the plant's major product, the coupons have become a modest blessing and benefit. But other workers regard them as a curse, as a way to mobilize peer pressure against workers who might consider reporting an injury.
 ''You know that if you report an injury, everybody says, 'You son of a bitch,' '' said Dan Austin, who worked at the plant for 30 years. ''I've heard people say, 'So-and-so reported an injury and it's going to cost us our safety bucks this month.' '' 
 Companies across the state have recently introduced reward programs to curtail injuries, in part to keep their workers safe, in part to cut down on workers' compensation claims, which managers cite as a huge factor in the high cost of doing business in New York.
 ''There are an awful lot of situations where people aren't truly injured on the job,'' said Gregory Harden, the president of Harden Furniture, a 380-employee company based in McConnellsville. ''I tend to be a little cynical. Monday is always the day with the highest injury rate for us. Someone comes in on Monday, and their back is really sore for whatever reason, and they end up missing a few weeks of work.''
 The state's multibillion-dollar workers' compensation system is plagued by many shortcomings: endless delays, suspect doctors, and a rudimentary form of justice that prevails as employees and employers seek to survive.
 But perhaps the most powerful way to appreciate how the system has failed is to see what it has done to New York's workplaces. A century ago, when the state created its workers' compensation system, the goal was a no-fault insurance program that would foster workplace harmony by resolving disputes over injuries without litigation or recrimination.
 Today, however, employers and employees are still at war over workplace injuries, a war marked by mistrust and fear. Each side is angry; each side has its own powerful evidence to justify that anger.
 Workers say companies are going to extraordinary lengths to cut back on claims: contesting injuries, checking on workers at home, even firing those who file for benefits. 
 Employers say that the compensation system is so expensive, so riddled with fraudulent claims, that they need to take aggressive steps to curb their costs. A single injury can easily cost $10,000, and sometimes several hundred thousand dollars when a badly maimed worker draws benefits for life.
 Though no independent study has established that claimant fraud is rampant, many executives say the system is skewed against them by judges who favor claimants and by malingerers who collect benefits when they are well enough to work.
 The state is putting reforms in place to reduce costs for companies and ease tensions in the workplace, but it remains unclear how much they will help. And the economic downturn has only added to the pressure to control costs.
 So to cut back on claims, some factories are using scoreboards to record days passed without an injury. Some companies reward workers who report no injuries with a banquet featuring a lottery with a cash prize. Other plants play safety bingo: if there are enough consecutive injury-free days, one worker gets bingo and wins a cash jackpot. 
 ''It keeps everybody's mind on safety because every day when they come in, that bingo board is right next to the time clock,'' said Ed Prunier, safety manager at Ball Metal Container in Saratoga Springs. 
 Some companies are also using a less fun-filled program, known as progressive discipline. At the DuPont plant here, workers face five progressive steps when they suffer repeated injuries deemed to be partly their own fault: verbal warning, written warning, probation, five-day suspension and dismissal. 
 ''There's like a philosophy that unless your arm is falling off, don't tell anybody, take the pain, don't go the emergency room,'' said Jerry Graves, a DuPont machine operator who injured his thumb. ''Say you smashed your finger with a hammer at home.''
 Experts say it is difficult to estimate how often employers in New York retaliate against workers who file compensation claims because there is no tracking of such data. But several studies have found that the perception of widespread retaliation has contributed to the decline in the number of compensation claims in New York and nationwide in recent years.
 ''There are lots of people out there who aren't filing claims because it's not worth the hassle and because of the fear of retaliation by the employer,'' said Leslie Boden, a professor of public health at Boston University.
 Legal experts say New York makes it easy to fire workers who file claims. The law bars retaliation, but states that as long as an employer has a ''valid reason,'' like a prolonged absence, the firing is legitimate.
 Some of the workers most affected by efforts to curtail claims are immigrants, who make up an increasing part of the state's blue-collar work force. Many of them do not know about the compensation system, and when they get hurt, their employers often pressure them not to apply for benefits, worker advocates said.
 ''Their bosses tell them, 'Don't go to the hospital. Don't say it happened at work. I'll take care of you. I'll take care of your medications.' '' said Gonzalo Mercado, executive director of El Centro del Imigrante, a workers' center on Staten Island. ''In most cases, the employer never does any of that.''
 Gerver Lopez, for example, was putting up aluminum siding in May 2007 when the scaffolding broke and he fell to the ground, hurting his spine.
 Mr. Lopez, an immigrant from El Salvador, could not get up. He said his boss shouted: ''Don't call an ambulance. I don't want no trouble. I have 30 houses to do, and I don't want to lose any of them.'' 
 An uncle drove him to Nassau University Medical Center, and doctors there told him that he would never walk again, he said. By the time his two-and-a-half-month stay ended, his medical bills topped $45,000.
 Now 22, he remains paralyzed, and is supported by his mother, a waitress. 
 ''The boss said he was going to pay for everything and I shouldn't say anything,'' Mr. Lopez said. ''He didn't give me a penny.''
 Hurt on the Job
 Fred Willette followed his father into metal grinding, a world of dangerous dust and deafening noise.
 At Kodak, where he worked for several years, a machine would collect the dust spun off by his efforts. But when he took a similar job at Addison Precision Manufacturing, a metal-parts factory in Rochester, he said his new bosses did not want to spend the $3,000 for such a machine.
 ''They said, 'All we have to do is provide you with a dust mask,' '' Mr. Willette said. 
 So for seven years, he said, he did what he was told, grinding tools that are used to make parts for rockets, snowmobiles and medical equipment. 
 Then the shortness of breath began. One day he passed out and was rushed to the emergency room, the first of several trips. The doctors initially thought it was asthma. But on a return visit, a doctor asked him what he was grinding. ''Tungsten carbide with cobalt,'' he replied.
 It turned out he had hard-metal pulmonary disease, which, like black lung disease, can be hobbling, even fatal.
 Mr. Willette said that in March 2000 he told his bosses he was going to apply for workers' compensation to tide him over until he recovered. They fired him the next day, he said, a position the company disputes. 
 ''They were saying: 'You're a liability. You're getting all these people involved. We don't need you,' '' he said. He was 48 at the time.
 Robert Grey, a claimant lawyer, said New York's law against retaliation ''is close to useless, both as a deterrent and a remedy.''
 The courts have said employers can fire a claimant who misses too many days or if they need to hire someone to do the claimant's work. As a result, lawyers seldom pursue retaliation cases, said Michael T. Berns, a member of the state Workers' Compensation Board until last June. ''The burden of proof is with the claimant,'' he said. ''It's a very difficult burden.''
 Some states take a tougher stance. In Oregon, claimants retain the right to be reinstated to their job within three years of filing a claim, so long as they are still able to do the job. 
 Mr. Willette said that even after he was dismissed, the company challenged his claim. A private investigator for its insurance carrier began parking outside his house and trailing him to the doctor and the supermarket, he said.
 ''At first we thought it was the police,'' Mr. Willette said. ''But the cops said, 'He's a private investigator watching you.' ''
 Rodney Champagne, one of the owners of Addison Precision, declined to discuss Mr. Willette's case. ''I'm not really interested,'' he said.
 But the company's insurer said in official filings that the lung disease stemmed largely from smoking, not metallic dust. The company's chief executive, Robert Champagne, said during the compensation trial that he was concerned about his workers' safety and that Mr. Willette had not been fired for filing a claim. He was sent home, he said, because he was upset and shaky at work and had not brought in a requested note about the medication needed to control his stress-related seizures.
 After leaving Addison, Mr. Willette held a few lower-paying jobs for a few months, but his breathing did not improve, and he slipped into a depression for nearly a year. He felt too short of breath for his favorite pastime, fishing.
 Now he spends his days watching television. Occasionally he visits his father, gathering strength to go out for an hour or two by using an oxygen tank at home. 
 He now receives benefits, $278 a week. But because the company challenged his claim, those benefits did not start until 18 months after he was let go. 
 ''You feel very low from what they put you through,'' he said. ''They try to grind you down.''
 Fearing Fraud
 As the sixth president in the Curtis Screw Company's 100-year history, Paul Hojnacki wants the company to survive another century in Buffalo, the city where it was founded.
 But Mr. Hojnacki is so angry about the state's workers' compensation system that he sometimes talks of moving the factory, which makes precision auto parts. He denounces the delays in settling cases, complains about the ''pro-worker judges'' and about the way some employees, he said, are allowed to milk the system. Most of all, he indicts the costs.
 Curtis Screw, he said, spent $4,900 per employee in 2007 for workers' compensation coverage for its 220 workers, more than 10 times what it cost at its factory in Cornelius, N.C.
 ''The cost of this monstrosity,'' he said of the system, ''has to be taken into consideration because it's driving businesses out of New York State.'' 
 Mr. Hojnacki said the compensation bill represents 2.5 percent of the Buffalo plant's revenues, at a time when manufacturers often have profit margins of 3 percent. At the plant, where wages average $15.50 an hour, compensation costs translate into $2.50 for every hour that employees work, he said.
 One of the reforms the state has pushed through in recent years reduced compensation premiums for many companies by 20 percent, but Curtis Screw self-insures, so it has yet to see any savings. 
 ''New York State, prior to the reform, was one of the most expensive states in the country for workers' comp,'' said Kenneth Adams, the president of the Business Council of New York State. ''With these reductions in premiums, the cost of workers' comp for most employers has fallen into line with the average of other states. But if you're in manufacturing, it can still be a significant cost.''
 Mr. Harden, whose family-owned furniture company was founded in 1844, bridles at paying $1,800 per employee for compensation insurance. He complains that a compensation judge in 2004 ordered his company to pay $400 in weekly death benefits for life to the widow of a driver who died of pneumonia while making a delivery in Texas. 
 ''It wasn't from anything on the job,'' Mr. Harden said of the death. While acknowledging that some compensation was in order, he said, ''we feel the terms of our payments are excessive.''
 Mr. Hojnacki says he is similarly upset by the $200,000 his company pays out annually to 15 former employees who have been classified as having permanent partial or permanent total disabilities. Nearly all of them, he said, were terminated for poor performance, then filed for compensation.
 ''We have 15 people that we terminated that we cut a check to every week, some that date as far back as 1993-94,'' he said. ''It's absolutely ludicrous. Even with the workers' comp reforms, this legacy cost we literally have to pay until these people pass.''
 The Buffalo factory self-insures because Curtis Screw finds it cheaper to pay its compensation costs itself, rather than use an outside insurer. Mr. Hojnacki said his yearly compensation expenses include $850,000 to cover medical expenses for current workers, replacement wages for those workers and state assessments to finance the comp system.
 Mr. Hojnacki cited a machinist who worked at Curtis Screw for several years and then filed a claim for a back injury.
 ''We did surveillance on him,'' Mr. Hojnacki said. ''We had a videotape where this individual was doing work on his house, lifting sheets of drywall and carrying them around and taking them from the outside to the inside by himself. We took it to the judge. The judge ruled, 'We find that the individual was having a good day.' '' 
 The worker was classified as having a permanent partial disability, for which, Mr. Hojnacki said, the company pays him $400 a week. 
 ''The workers' comp judges are totally sympathetic with the workers,'' he continued. ''One judge told me, 'It's workers' comp. It's not employers' comp.' ''
 One reason that Curtis Screw's costs are so high, Mr. Hojnacki acknowledged, is that his company has so many injuries, including a half-dozen workers who have had costly surgery for carpal tunnel problems. None of his workers in North Carolina have ever received compensation for such an injury, he said.
 ''We have 25 injuries each year, and of the 25 the vast majority are legitimate situations where people scrape a finger or slip or twist a knee,'' he said. ''The vast majority of workers, they can't wait to be released from workers' comp and come back to work. For them, workers' comp is exactly what it should be -- it compensates them for the short period they're out. But then there's this small group of employees that play the system.''
 Mr. Hojnacki said that with his company facing competition from China, high energy costs and a devastating downturn in the auto industry, it cannot afford to be saddled with illegitimate compensation claims.
 ''It's just devastating that you can have people who take advantage of the system,'' he said. ''They are taking money that we could be sharing with other workers.''
 Safety Pays
 At FTT Manufacturing in Geneseo, the safety bingo pot starts at $25 and increases $2 for every day without an injury. Each day a number is drawn, and workers keep tabs on their game cards.
 If someone gets bingo after 20 days, the winner receives $65, but the pot continues to grow until an injury is reported. The maximum pot is $150.
 ''We didn't want to give them something cheesy -- where people say 'big deal,' '' said Wade Smith, co-director of FTT's safety programs.
 Within a year of introducing the game, he said, injuries fell by a third at the company, which makes high-precision parts for many industries.
 The game was set up for FTT by an outside firm, Safety Pays, which has sold bingo games to more than 3,000 companies and is converting the clamor over compensation costs into profits.
 Safety Pays provides a format for the game, plus bingo boards, cards, balls and ''Winner's Circle mini-posters.''
 ''The individual,'' Safety Pays says in its advertising brochure, ''who at one time alleged the occasional 'backache' in order to get a couple of extra days off will be hard-pressed to do so when his co-workers are anticipating a financial windfall by winning a jackpot.''
 Mr. Smith said injured employees are never subjected to more than some good-natured ''locker room pressure.'' 
 But many safety advocates and labor unions are worried about the growth of such programs, which the Occupational Safety and Health Administration considered banning in the 1990s. 
 Robert K. McLellan, former president of the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, told the House Education and Labor Committee last year about a worker who told his doctors he had hurt himself at home when the injury had really happened on the job. The worker later admitted lying because he did not want his co-workers to lose a promised steak dinner.
 Last year, the committee's staff criticized these programs, saying in a report, ''Since workers are human and inevitably make errors, the consequence of rewards or punishment is often a failure to report incidents, rather than a reduction of injuries.''
 Seth Marshall, founder of Safety Pays, says the games promote healthy peer pressure that increases everyone's focus on safety and discourages workers from reporting fraudulent injuries. 
 At the DuPont plant here, officials base performance bonuses in part on how many injuries occur at the plant. But they say they never want to deter the reporting of legitimate injuries.
 ''All safety incidents, regardless of size, are to be reported and investigated,'' said Beth Turner, DuPont's director of global operations safety, health and environment. 
 Wendy Hughes, however, says she believes DuPont punished her when she crushed her thumb one day in 2002. The brakes of her forklift failed, she said, and when she tried to stop the forklift with her leg, her thumb got caught between it and a cabinet. 
 Doctors did a bone graft and inserted six pins in her thumb. She said DuPont seemed eager not to have her report a lost-time accident to OSHA, so her supervisors ordered her to return to the factory directly from the emergency room.
 Ms. Hughes said she was not given any days off to recuperate. Instead, she was ordered to spend her days biding time in the factory's break room. When other workers complained about seeing her there, she said management ordered her to spend each day inside a four-by-six closet where protective work clothes were stored. DuPont declined to discuss her case, citing privacy concerns. 
 ''All my co-workers started saying things like, 'We're not going to get any performance-based bonus,' '' she recalled. '' 'There go our safety bucks for the quarter.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fred Willette, a former metal grinder with lung disease, says he was fired for talk of filing a claim. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
CONCERNED ABOUT COSTS: The Curtis Screw Company of Buffalo spent $4,900 per employee in 2007 for workers' compensation coverage for its 220 employees there, according to its president, Paul Hojnacki, a much higher per capita cost than at the company's North Carolina factory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SAFETY BINGO: At FTT Manufacturing in Geneseo, Judy Wilkins, a manager, updates a scoreboard in the break room for a workplace game of safety bingo, one example of using monetary rewards to promote worker safety. Such programs have drawn criticism because of their potential to encourage employees to conceal injuries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) CHARTS: AS INJURIES RISE, SO DO PREMIUMS: Workers' compensation insurance premiums are based on both the amount of a company's ''losses'' medical and lost wage benefits paid to injured workers and the number of injuries. Companies with many injuries, even small ones, can have very high premiums. (Sources: Ziv Kimmel, director of actuarial research, N.Y. Compensation Insurance Rating Board
Worker's Compensation Board) (pg.A22)
 MEASURING LOSS WITH A ROUGH SCALE: When workers in New York lose permanent use of a body part, the workers' compensation system awards them money according to a schedule, set by the state, that assigns a lump sum equal to a certain number of weeks of wages to each lost part. (Source: New York State Workers' Compensation Board) (pg.A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (93%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (87%); LITIGATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



56 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: For This Year, A Chance to Shift Financial Strategies

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
THE economic maelstrom has brought with it tremendous opportunities for financial planning with retirement accounts.
 For this year only, people over 70 1/2 with traditional I.R.A.'s and those who inherited these accounts or Roth I.R.A.'s do not have to take the required minimum distributions. Congress suspended that requirement, along with those that apply to 401(k)'s, as part of the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act, passed in December.
 If you want the annual distribution, take it. But leaving the money in your account saves paying the income tax on the withdrawal -- if it came from a taxable account -- and allows the investments to grow if the market bounces back. 
 The new law, together with the steep decline in asset values, makes several strategies worth considering:
 QUALIFY FOR OTHER TAX BREAKS The lower your overall taxable income, the greater the likelihood that you can take advantage of other tax deductions, said Robert S. Keebler, an accountant with Virchow, Krause & Company in Green Bay, Wis.
 Now that the law does not require you to take a minimum distribution, your taxable income may be lower. You can bring it down further by selling investments that have done poorly and subtracting at least some of the losses. (Have your tax adviser navigate the complex rules and run the numbers.) For example, unreimbursed medical and dental expenses are deductible only to the extent they exceed 7.5 percent of your adjusted gross income, so if you lower your adjusted gross income, some of your expenses may qualify. 
 CONVERT TO A ROTH When you do the conversion, you must pay income tax on the amount you are converting, which may be the whole account or just a portion of it. But converting now is a bargain in two respects, said Barry C. Picker, an accountant and financial planner with Picker, Weinberg & Auerbach in Brooklyn. If the investments subsequently increase in value, that appreciation will be free from income tax. And if tax rates increase later, you will have converted it at today's lower rates.
 Once you have made the conversion, no tax is assessed when the money is withdrawn, subject to certain restrictions. You also avoid the requirement to take yearly minimum distributions beginning at age 70 1/2, which can leave more for your heirs if you don't use the money yourself.
 Starting in 2010, you can do a conversion regardless of your income. For now, you can convert the I.R.A. only if you are single or married filing jointly and your modified adjusted gross income does not exceed $100,000. 
 ROLL OVER YOUR 401(K) Consider this if you are about to change jobs or are approaching retirement. When you leave a company, you can roll the assets from a company plan directly into a Roth I.R.A. Here, too, you must pay income tax on the account balance, and the $100,000 income limitation applies until 2010. 
 UNDO A ROTH CONVERSION Let's say that in December you converted a $100,000 I.R.A., but its value has declined to $70,000. You owe tax on April 15 on $100,000, unless you reverse the transaction -- a process called recharacterization. You're allowed this do-over any time until Oct. 15 of the year after you do the conversion. If you recharacterize after you have filed your return and paid the tax, submit an amended return and claim a refund.
 After you have recharacterized, you are not permitted to do another conversion with the same assets until the next year or 30 days after the first conversion -- whichever is longer. 
 If you do another conversion and the market declines further, you can recharacterize again, subject to the waiting period. ''It's like getting to bet on a horse after the race is over,'' said Ed Slott, a C.P.A. in Rockville Centre, N.Y.
 Each time you do a conversion, create another Roth I.R.A., rather than mixing funds in an existing Roth account, Mr. Slott advised. That makes it much easier to monitor asset performance, and to recharacterize later if necessary.
 STOP AUTOMATIC DISTRIBUTIONS If you have been relying on the financial institution holding your account to calculate and pay the required distribution (for instance, monthly or annually), notify it if you want the distribution suspended. Should you receive an I.R.A. distribution in error, you can roll it back into the account within 60 days and not have to pay taxes, said Natalie B. Choate, a lawyer with Nutter McClennen & Fish in Boston. But you can restore the funds only once within a 12-month period, so you will be stuck with any additional payments. 
 TAKE THE DISTRIBUTION This approach might appeal to wealthy people who prefer to pay the tax now because they expect rates to go up, Ms. Choate said. By taking distributions of low-value stock, you benefit if the stock increases in value and is held for more than a year. Then, if you sell it, that appreciation will be taxed at a 15 percent capital gains rate. In contrast, all withdrawals from a retirement account are taxed at the less favorable ordinary income rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LEGISLATION (76%)

COMPANY: BAKER TILLY VIRCHOW KRAUSE LLP (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (55%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



57 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: One Oath Leads To Another

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Stephen Chi was born in Norway to Chinese immigrant parents, grew up in Sweden, received undergraduate and graduate degrees at Saginaw Valley State University in Michigan, mastered five languages and now works as an information technology consultant in New York City. 
 But for all the experiences his peripatetic life has given him, it has also left him with a profound sense of rootlessness. So he recently applied to enlist in the United States Army. 
 ''I don't feel like I belong anywhere,'' Mr. Chi, 30, said on Wednesday. ''I wanted to become part of something bigger.'' 
 Until last month, Mr. Chi's application would have been rejected outright because only American citizens and permanent residents -- immigrants who carry green cards -- were permitted to enlist in the American military. But under a new program that began Feb. 23 and is intended to increase the number of highly skilled soldiers, the American military is now allowing some temporary immigrants to enlist. 
 In a public ceremony in Times Square on Wednesday, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the Army chief of staff, swore in 16 of those new recruits, including Mr. Chi. The others hailed from Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, Korea and Sweden. 
 They gathered outside the recruiting station on the traffic island where Broadway and Seventh Avenue converge, pulled drab olive Army T-shirts over their civilian tops and, shivering against the cold, followed General Casey in a vow of allegiance to the military and to the United States. 
 ''Our diversity only strengthens us,'' General Casey said in an interview with reporters after the ceremony. 
 The new program, known as Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest, is intended to address shortages among soldiers with medical expertise and foreign language skills. It will be limited to 1,000 enlistees in the first year, most of whom will enter the Army, though the American military command plans to expand it to include other branches and thousands more recruits every year. 
 It is open to foreigners who have lived legally in the United States for at least two years on temporary visas, including high-skilled employment visas and student visas. Illegal immigrants will continue to be barred from enlisting. 
 As an enticement, the government is offering an expedited path to citizenship and will waive naturalization fees.
 Of 4,833 applicants so far, 52 people have enlisted, including Wednesday's group, while 445 have been disqualified, military officials said. 
 Of the 52 new enlistees, 11 have master's degrees, 31 have bachelor's degrees and 4 have associate's degrees or the equivalent, officials said. The remaining six are high school graduates. 
 At least 24 of the soldiers speak Korean, 11 speak Hindi, 9 speak a Chinese dialect, 3 speak Russian, 3 speak Arabic and one speaks Urdu. 
 The naturalization process for most foreigners on temporary visas can often take more than a decade. But people in the new program will be able to become citizens within six months, officials said. To maintain their citizenship, the enlistees must honorably complete their service, which ranges from two to four years of active duty, plus reserve duty, depending on their specialty. 
 Many of the new recruits, however, said after the ceremony that while the streamlined citizenship process was very attractive, it had not been the leading factor in their decision. 
 Indeed, several said they had applied to enlist without even knowing about the new program. 
 Toniya Mishra, an Indian citizen who holds a master's degree in industrial engineering from the Rochester Institute of Technology, said she applied a day before the introduction of the program. She had been laid off from her job at a New Jersey company that makes pharmaceutical software; the firm was cutting staff because of the economic downturn. 
 Ms. Mishra, 24, said she applied after seeing a job posting on the Internet seeking engineers for the Army, but said she did not expect to receive a call because of her nationality. 
 Umesh Sharma, 37, who holds a master's degree in international education policy from Harvard, first tried to enlist in 2006 but was rejected because of his Indian citizenship. He reapplied last month when he read about the new program.
 Mr. Sharma, who has been working for a private tutoring firm in Virginia, said he was motivated to enlist as a way of helping developing countries in areas like education reform. He enlisted as an infantryman because he wanted ''to be on the front lines and associate with the society, face to face.
 ''If I'm in the Army, I want to be really involved,'' he added.
 Mr. Chi has an additional hurdle to clear: He still has not told his parents that he has joined the Army. ''I guess I have to tell them sometime,'' he said, chuckling uncomfortably at the thought. But he said he did not plan to break the news to them until after he returned from basic training, by which time, he said, he would be on his way in his new career -- ''and it's too late.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the Army chief of staff, led a swearing-in ceremony in Times Square on Wednesday. The enlistees included 16 temporary immigrants who are taking advantage of a new recruitment program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); NATURALIZATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); CITIZENSHIP (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (92%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



58 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Apartments Sell for Less If They Are Sold at All

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Hard times have come to the Manhattan real estate market, according to a series of quarterly sales reports to be issued on Thursday.
 Relatively few apartments are selling, and when they do, prices are down 20 percent or more from a year ago. Large, luxurious apartments on Fifth Avenue, Park Avenue and Central Park West, and new condominiums with many unsold apartments, have been particularly hard hit. 
 One report, prepared by two brokerage firms, Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property, showed the number of closings of condos and co-ops down by 58 percent in the first quarter of 2009, compared with the same period a year earlier, as buyers were scared off by worries over the economy, portfolio losses and fears that apartment prices would continue to fall in the months ahead. 
 The drop in sales was worse than the decline in the auto industry. In March, sales at General Motors were off 45 percent from March 2008. 
 The report showed that average condo and co-op apartment prices were down 11 percent from the first quarter of last year, to $1.5 million. Co-op prices were off 27 percent, to $975,000, and condominium prices down by 4 percent. but were up from the last quarter, as buyers continued to close on new condominiums for which contracts were signed many months ago. 
 The number of sales of apartments over $10 million plummeted, by 87 percent, compared with a year ago, when sales of apartments at some of the city's most expensive condominiums, at 15 Central Park West and at the Plaza Hotel, were completed, the report said.
 Only one co-op closed for more than $20 million, compared with eight in the same quarter a year ago. 
 Although details in the various reports differed -- one put the decline in sales at 52 percent and another at 48 percent -- they suggested a market still traumatized by a collapse in confidence last fall after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, even as sales have begun to stabilize in far more troubled real estate markets in the West. 
 ''Consumer confidence is the killer,'' said Dottie Herman, president of the Prudential Douglas Elliman brokerage firm. ''People are scared. They have never seen anything like this.''
 Jonathan Miller, an appraiser who prepares the market report for Prudential Douglas Elliman, said he has tracked a series of statistics on inventory over the last decade that show the market declining more steeply than ever before. 
 The number of apartments on the market, 10,445, was 34 percent above the inventory level a year ago, he said, and 15 percent above the inventory last quarter. 
 The average number of days that apartments stayed on the market had increased to a record 170, nearly half a year, up 16.5 percent from the first quarter last year and 7 percent from the last quarter. And when buyers did sign contracts, they got a discount of 12 percent from the most recent listed asking price, up from 7.3 percent from the fourth quarter of 2008. 
 The Elliman report showed that average and median sales prices for all co-ops and condos were up a bit from a year ago, but Mr. Miller said the figures were distorted by closings of expensive new condominiums (even though few contracts for new condominiums are currently being signed). 
 He said a more significant figure was the sale price of existing co-op and condominium apartments, which was down 20.9 percent, to $732,000, since the first quarter of last year.
 Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens, said that despite the declines, there were some positive signs. Activity has picked up in each of the last few months, he said, with the number of active buyers and the number of contracts signed rising. 
 But Pam Liebman, the president of the Corcoran Group, which also issued a report, predicted that as activity picks up, prices will erode even more. While sales of the most expensive apartments and apartments in new condos are down sharply, she said that sales were increasing among lower-priced apartments. 
 She said sales of one-bedrooms and studios were up, as were sales to first-time buyers, who can purchase an apartment without having to sell something else. 
 ''Manhattan has become affordable again,'' she said. ''It is a lot more affordable than it was six months ago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Co-op and condo apartment sales, and sales prices, have dropped this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. B. REED/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



59 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: More Are Spending Less To Get Away From It All

BYLINE: By STEFANI JACKENTHAL

 BODY:
AS Mel Miller, 69, began planning an annual fall vacation with his wife, Elizabeth, 67, he was startled by what he found. ''I haven't seen prices like this in four or five years,'' said Mr. Miller, a retired government regulator who lives in Manhattan. This year the couple expect to take a walking tour of Tuscany and Umbria, and Mr. Miller estimates it will cost them nearly 25 percent less than their trip to northern Italy two years ago.
 ''And the deals keep getting better,'' he said. ''So it almost becomes a matter of, do I book now or wait?'' 
While it may seem like a peculiar time to take a dream vacation, given the harsh economy and dwindling retirement funds, the prices are right if you have the cash.
 Companies are slashing fees to fill buses, boats and planes. Some retirees are finding they can take advantage of the lower prices, while in other cases workers led to delay retirement are snapping up bargains to give themselves a break before heading back to the office.
 The discounts have come because, after a substantial drop in travel bookings last fall -- as much as 20 percent, according to some companies -- travel organizations have switched into survival mode, offering discounts and incentives.
 ''They're trying to ride out this storm and get back on track in the next few months,'' said Tim Fitzgerald of AARP Travel Products and Services. ''It's a great opportunity for people who have the time and flexibility in their schedules.''
 Mr. Miller, for one, admitted that he could no longer stand to look at his stock portfolio. ''Sometimes you have to say the hell with it and hope things get better,'' he said. ''You might as well travel now while the discounts are irresistible.''
 Prices have fallen, for instance, on small-ship river cruises, which carry 100 to 200 passengers. They have become more popular, operators say, because many include elegant dining, quaint lodging and personal tours.
 Viking River Cruises is offering what it is calling a two-for-one deal on trips booked through April 30 on some of its more popular tours. (Ultimately, the prices are not exactly two for one because of charges like port fees and taxes, said Richard Marnell, senior vice president for marketing at Viking, but they are significantly cheaper than the original fares.)
 For example, Mr. Marnell noted that prices on an eight-day trip on the Danube with daily stops from Budapest to Nuremberg, Germany, amounted to about $600 in savings per person, depending on the class of travel and excluding airfare, compared with prices at this time last year.
 Travelers on Viking's 15-day Grand European Tour, which includes stops in Amsterdam and Budapest, could save about $1,000 per person over last year, Mr. Marnell said.
 Such discounts are attracting some retirees on limited budgets.
 ''We don't have a lot of money to spread around for travel,'' said David Snapp, 69, a retired high school principal, in Columbus, Ohio. He and his wife, Angela, 60, who taught French, plan to take Viking's Grand European Tour in August. ''But when we saw the two-for-one deal and that the euro is down considerably from a year ago, we thought, 'Let's book it!' '' Mr. Snapp said they had saved another $1,100 by arranging their own flights through an airline, rather than through Viking.
 Because of the increase in reservations, the company has added 10 departure dates, Mr. Marnell said. 
 ''Our bookings are actually up 33 percent since the beginning of the year, versus last year at the same time,'' he said. The company, which is privately held, said it did not discuss its profitability, but Mr. Marnell said the combination of special offers and improved cost management had enabled his company ''to keep margins flat for the 2009 sailing season.''
 ''The discounts and incentives are working,'' agreed Mr. Fitzgerald of AARP, who speculated that people had a ''pent-up demand'' for travel and that lower prices were sealing the deal. 
 Another company, General Tours World Traveler, which specializes in small ships and group tours, charged $2,500 last year for a 12-day trip to five major Chinese cities, including Beijing, Fengdu and Shanghai. This year, the company offered the same trip for about $2,200, and more than half of its travelers took advantage of rates of about $1,900 offered by AARP and AAA, said Robert Drumm, the company president. General Tours plans to offer discounted cruises through October, he said. 
 Companies that draw many active retirees are also using discounts to fill trips.
 Trek Travel, which offers hiking, biking and kayaking trips, often with a culinary twist, to a core clientele of 45- to 60-year olds, has a variety of promotions. ''We've been looking for ways to spur sales,'' said Tania Worgull, president of the company. Throughout the winter, Trek offered monthly specials of $200 off trips in the United States and $400 off international locales like Provence, New Zealand and bike tours from Prague to Vienna.
 In response to traveler demand, Trek is also booking 10 new long-weekend tours to places like Zion National Park, California wine country and Moab, Utah, for those who still want to travel but can't afford longer trips. Prices for those tours run between $1,200 and $1,600, according to the company.
 Travel discounts have been an unexpected bonus for those who are suddenly unemployed and have the time and resources to take that ''trip of a lifetime'' before figuring out their next career move.
 The financial crisis has also pushed some to delay retirement to pay their bills. Barbara Willinger, a social worker in New York City, had planned to retire in December but now expects to work for at least another year.
 According to a telephone survey conducted in December for the United States division of Sun Life Financial, a financial services group, 54 percent of American workers ages 30 to 66 said they would delay their retirement by at least one year because of the current economy, and 24 percent said they would need to work more than five years. In October, Mrs. Willinger and a friend, Becky Rappensberger, of Santa Rosa, Calif., will spend 15 days hiking in Nepal, canoeing on Lake Phew, rafting the Seti River and exploring Chitwan National Park with Overseas Adventure Travel.
 As Mrs. Willinger said, ''I figure if I have to work, then I deserve to take a big vacation.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BARGAIN AARP: members enjoying an afternoon stroll on a tour through Europe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GENERAL TOURS WORLD TRAVELER)
ON THE MOVE: Bike riding in Arches National Park on one of Trek Travel's trips to Utah.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ZACK JONES PHOTOGRAPHY/TREK TRAVEL)
 CAFE SOCIETY: Relaxing in Rothenburg, Germany, on a cruise itinerary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VIKING RIVER CRUISES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); CRUISES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); AIR FARES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (50%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); UTAH, USA (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (57%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (87%); HUNGARY (79%); ITALY (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



60 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER AMALGA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: To Rediscover the West, Head East

BYLINE: By CINTRA WILSON

 BODY:
SOMETIMES, it's easy to forget what American style is supposed to be -- or if, as many suspect, it's just an oxymoron. SoHo, nowadays, is primarily inhabited by Europeans on vast clothes-shopping expeditions, scoring bargains and jangling with the same consumer irritation that Americans do in suburban mall outlets. The sidewalks are thick with couples in skinny jeans, heavy with multiple shopping bags, arguing in Latin-based languages. The only visible locals I saw: a miserable blonde smoking on a stair ledge, sporting a fresh black eye; a sax player rippling out flawless Wayne Shorter solos for spare change. 
 This, I thought, was the new deal, so far: America the Beautiful, having been pillaged by her legal guardians (who had no appreciation for her culture or spirit when they sold her into slavery) is adjusting to her new role as a scarlet woman. Unlucky Lady Liberty lights her last cigarette before dousing her torch, and clomps out into the klieg lights to peel off her robe before a barely interested crowd. 
 The publicity material on Amalga, a new shop on the shady cobblestones of Wooster Street, proclaims that its focus is on ''Japanese brands that are kind of exclusive in New York.'' It does not disappoint. 
 I must as a critic confess that Amalga is the kind of store that hits the sweet spot of all of my post-Goth-industrial pleasure centers with a little silver hammer. Right there, hanging in the window: a scrum of hand-stitched, distressed leather bratwurst nightsticks -- wonderfully dark and suggestive of something that Sweeney Todd, the charcutier, would make out of rugby players for gay cops. Below, set among branches of spidery driftwood and ankle boots with spats was a black vase containing a pheasant feather, an artichoke and two white tiger lilies. I'm pretty much sold. It can be that easy.
 The inside is a high black railroad flat; screeching bird noises are interspersed on the sound system with '80s painkiller rock. 
 The first rack of obscure Japanese designs declares Amalga's tendencies: Old West-style leather items, all of which seem to have undergone individualized tortures in various acid vats. A thick horsehide vest with skull buttons evaporated into shreds at the hem. I had assumed that a Klingon-style jacket ($11,800) by one of Amalga's non-Japanese designers, Yohan Serfaty, was a crocodile pattern printed on some much softer, oiled hide. But no, the crocodile had apparently been marinated long enough for its exoskeleton to become as supple as a catcher's mitt. (Now there's a start-up company for unemployed Floridians.) Across the shop, an algae-colored suede jacket by Michel Berandi wept to her brothers about how the designer had melted her pelt into the striated consistency of brisket ($2,345). 
 I was mesmerized by custard chamois cricket breeches ($1,020) and a matching jacket, with white piping and buttons from the Japanese house Christian Peau. I was dying to see a gold-toothed Somali pirate wear the whole ensemble to Ascot, or don it myself and roll all over an Aston Martin to buff the wax. 
 Heavily distressed pants by Kiminori Morishita were suffering from severe army fatigue and post-traumatic stress. A warped leather kit-belt looked as if it had washed up on the beach at Iwo Jima; bleach-worried cargo pants appeared to have been found in the sand years after the crash of an F-4 Phantom outside Pochentong. I gave them a moment of silence. 
 Just past the jewelry case full of cowrie shells and predator teeth on hand-woven African necklaces was a collection by the Japanese label L.G.B. (Le Grand Bleu, for long) -- knits apparently designed for packs of outlaw samurai skateboarders. A long, black sweater-vest was webbed with built-in rips and runs ($460); a leather buckle-neck hoodie came with what felt like a long real-hair mohawk -- perfect for the urban Hun who hates to lose his ponytail when his hoodie is up.
 The back of the store is devoted to yellowing, ghostly summer whites: stiff, crinkly safari linens, revived after their mysterious coma in the mummy tomb. A large table displays the Christian Peau reinterpretation of the white buck shoe. It is a white buck shoe, actually, but hand-painted -- like, with paint -- into such a yellowing gesso, such lopsided stiffness that they look as if they should be nailed next to a Rauschenberg goat. 
 I selected (for the pleasure of the black lacquer lawn gnome that lives in the dressing room) a modified 1940s black silk dress from Share Spirit. It had a detachable satin collar, tuxedo pin-tucks up one side and a satin rifle patch on one shoulder ($838) -- heaven, but too big. L.G.B.'s leather motorcycle jodhpurs were an alluring butch-action design, but sadly, Japanese unisex sizing does not quite accommodate my pneumatic American caboose.
 My favorite garment was one I tried as a joke: a shiny black liquid-satin funnel-neck tube shirt by Michel Berandi ($500). Slipping it on, however, felt like swan-diving into cool mercury; the cut evoked the hypersexed space-age track costumes of the late great Florence Griffith-Joyner. Needless to say, I wanted it beyond all reason, but my credit cards began to pray audibly, and I pulled myself together. 
 Downstairs, in a pewter tile chamber framed by black garden rocks, I found what I didn't know I was really looking for: authentic American style. An entire wall of plaid cowboy shirts, roughhoused into softness with frayed hems and bleach holes: creamy ranch-style dressing nonpareil. The piece de resistance, in a glass case, was a pair of battered motorcycle pants, hand-painted with stars and stripes to resemble something Peter Fonda might have worn in ''Easy Rider.'' 
 It is both tragic and fortunate that vanquished indigenous cultures, like that of Hawaiians or Hopi Indians, have ended up in large part preserved for the sake of tourist entertainment. The fruits of our American counterculture, indigenous art forms that our own mainstream has never quite fully appreciated (jazz, rockabilly and break dancing, to name a few), owe a great debt to the Japanese for their good sense in adopting, fetishizing, reinterpreting, remanufacturing -- and thereby rescuing and historically preserving them. 
 Here we are, more than 60 years after Hiroshima, and a shop full of clothes by Japanese designers is, with great humor and helpfulness, trying to sell their improved version of America's lost fashion soul back to us. We should acknowledge Amalga's gift, and be humbly grateful.
 AMALGA
 114 Wooster Street (between Prince and Spring Streets); (212) 334-1014
 A GLAMA O lucky America: a store full of exotic Goth-friendly Japanese designs by the luminous likes of L.G.B., Share Spirit and Christian Peau, redefining the old and wringing in the new. 
 AM A GAL One must beware of dangerously silky cashmeres and hand-woven cottons shaped into very persuasive, tentacled cardigans that practically reach into your wallet by themselves. 
 A LA MAG If Victorian mourning and British night life mows your lawn, there is also an amalga-mation (yes, the shop name) of Vivienne Westwood and Thomas Wylde: pick up latex bondage pants and that tank top you've always wanted that spells ''HEROIN'' down the back in rhinestones. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (78%); RUGBY (77%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (70%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (69%); BIRDS (67%); STARTUPS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



61 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Irresistible and Affordable

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
''IWANT our clothes to be the least expensive thing on the floor,'' Isaac Mizrahi said last Thursday at Macy's in Herald Square as he made his way to a promotion for the Liz Claiborne collection he now designs.
 ''How much is Eileen Fisher charging these days?'' he asked, pawing a display of T-shirts from a competitor. ''Sixty-eight dollars for a tank top?'' His eyes were as wide as a pauper's at Prada.
 No surprise, Mr. Mizrahi, whose collections for Target turned him into a maharishi of value-minded fashion for most of America, makes a tank for a lot less. A blush-pink style in stretch jersey, trimmed with lace, is $35 in the spring Liz Claiborne collection. And it's cute, too.
 More than 400 people had turned up to see Mr. Mizrahi introduce his makeover of an aging label that style-conscious women had all but abandoned. People were shopping, and like Mr. Mizrahi, price was on their minds. 
 ''I don't think I've been in Macy's in like a hundred years -- it's always so vanilla,'' said Jill Sussman, who owns an art gallery in Manhattan and described herself as a fashion devotee. She is a regular client of Prada and Issey Miyake, although lately she has been shopping for those brands at Tokio7, a consignment store. At Macy's, she had her eye on some snappy belted cardigans that were $69.
 ''I'm looking for something kind of edgy and fun,'' she said. 
 As customers re-evaluate their relationship with designer clothes, high prices are driving some of them to hunt for fashion in stores or from brands they had previously overlooked. If they are not just staying home, shopping their closets, they may be part of a consumer pattern of trading down, from a Saks Fifth Avenue to a Macy's, for example, and liking what they see -- or at least not being horrified. 
 At the same time, mainstream retailers like Ann Taylor and Talbots have been hiring new designers and sprucing up their looks to appeal to modern women who are now shopping for style within their means. As these stores become ''recession destinations,'' as described in a report by the research firm YouGov, shoppers are discovering that they aren't as fuddy as they used to be. 
 No matter how tempting the new designs, the challenge for these stores is to shake consumers from what could be called a ''Cathy'' mentality -- that is, an economy so bad even the comic strip heroine won't shop. In a recent survey by the consulting group WSL Strategic Retail, 80 percent of shoppers across all income levels said they would not make a purchase unless it was an absolute necessity. (As Cathy recently told her long-suffering saleswoman, ''I'm tightening my belt by not buying a belt.'' Ack!)
 ''At this point, we're trying to resist,'' said Callie French, a makeup artist who was also at Macy's. ''I really am not looking.''
 Well, maybe just a little. Ms. French has noticed more fashionable designs at stores in her Brooklyn neighborhood, including Ann Taylor. And the bright colors of Mr. Mizrahi's collection were hard to resist, ''something that's fun, something to lighten up, something that you might look at and smile,'' she said.
 Consumers know that a lot of interesting fashion is now available for less, a result of the decade-long trend of democratized design that introduced to the American market stores like H & M, Zara and the Topshop store opening Thursday in Manhattan. But for working women and many customers out of their 20s and 30s, those designs skew too trendy or are inappropriate for office attire. It is almost as if that democratization had overlooked an entire segment of the population: baby boomers who want a version of fast fashion for grown-ups. 
 Now the windows at the Ann Taylor store on Fifth Avenue are filled with smart sleeveless dresses in black-and-white graphics or watercolor floral prints. A little black dress for $139 has pleats tucked around the waist. Although the chain reported deep sales declines for the fourth quarter, down 31.6 percent, Ann Taylor has been credited by some analysts for introducing attractive clothes at affordable prices and for recognizing the subtleties of the consumer mind-set in its marketing. (A cross-promotion with Procter & Gamble to emphasize its machine-washable clothes was cited by WSL.) As it adapts, the company has also been closing 163 of its roughly 900 stores, including locations for its Loft division, which offers less expensive, more casual clothes.
 ''We want to make our client feel she's making a really smart choice,'' said Christine Beauchamp, the president of Ann Taylor Stores.
 Over the next several months, the 55-year-old company known for classics for career women -- Elle, in a recent issue, boiled the Ann Taylor style down to ''Sarah Palin-style power suits'' -- is introducing a new look by its lead designer, Lisa Axelson, who was recruited from Club Monaco. Ms. Axelson has been developing what she calls ''the perfect pieces,'' versatile items like black pants, a trench coat and cardigans that women can rely on to make an outfit feel pulled together. 
 ''I love the challenge to create really great looking products that you're surprised to find at this price,'' she said. 
 ''The item,'' Ms. Beauchamp added, ''more than ever has to be irresistible.''
 Ann Taylor, Talbots and the new Liz Claiborne are focusing on the emotional impulse of purchasing, but they are keeping in mind that customers are more likely to look twice or three times before buying. At Talbots, which is also trying to revamp its image in the face of slumping sales, down by 23.4 percent in the fourth quarter, the new mantra is ''tradition transformed,'' said Michael Smaldone, the company's chief creative officer. (Mr. Smaldone, until 2007, was the designer at Ann Taylor.)
 Some of Mr. Smaldone's new designs are now appearing in stores and in the company's catalogs, with a broader redesign planned for August. Walking into the Talbots store on Madison Avenue, with its festive red painted door, homey decor and piles of melon-colored cardigans, bamboo prints and safari suits, the change is only beginning to become apparent. You might think that Michael Kors and Tory Burch had wed in a year-round Christmas superstore. A planned remodeling has taken a back seat in this economy to improving the fashion, its executives said. ''When you've got 600 stores, the transformation is a little slower,'' said Lori Wagner, the company's chief marketing officer. 
 But in the Talbots showroom, Mr. Smaldone's designs for fall offer a stark contrast, one that is more in line with the broader trends of fashion, like a chic black cotton knit dress with delicate draping for $129 and tweed lady jackets for $219 that captured the same manor-house vibe as Miuccia Prada's fall collection. There was also a $159 sheath in chunky black lace similar to a Prada motif from last fall -- and a conspicuous number of sleeveless dresses, owing to customer demand for looks inspired by the style of Michelle Obama. 
 ''Our customer reads all these magazines, and she knows what is going on in fashion,'' Mr. Smaldone said. ''You give her that in a simple shift and she loves it.''
 Alas, love, like credit cards, may be denied. The retail outlook is so grim, especially for fashion, that more affordable designs may not be enough to entice shoppers to buy, said Wendy Liebmann, the chief executive of WSL. 
 ''The stores could be doing the right thing -- the fashion and the service could be immaculate -- but until people get out of the need stage, or the window-shopping stage, and put their shoe in the door, it's going to be a very tough spring and summer,'' she said. ''People are saying, 'Oh, isn't that nice, but I wonder if I'll have a job in three weeks.' ''
 Ack! That's too much of a downer to contemplate, said Mr. Mizrahi, who remains in the camp of those who believe that want will ultimately conquer need. Macy's has already reordered several Liz Claiborne items, like a $79 rose-print short-sleeve cardigan, a $119 denim trench dress and a $189 taffeta gingham strapless, which could hardly be described as the bare necessities. 
 ''People have their basics,'' he said. ''I want what I can't resist.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PRICE POINTS: An Ann Taylor updated cotton dress (left), $139, and sleeveless denim trench (right), $129. A Talbots safari suit (center), $212 for the jacket and $110 for the pants.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 HOT LIST: At Macy's, fans line up to see Isaac Mizrahi's new Liz Claiborne collection, which includes a cardigan and skirt ($79 each), above, and a jacket ($219), sweater ($49) and skirt ($99).(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (MACY'S))(pg. E7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY KIM DeMARCO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); RETAILERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (52%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



62 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, History Speaks To the Present

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
History is told in many strange ways, and often it isn't told at all.
 But for a reminder of how much politics, strategy and salesmanship can go into the telling, consider the scene on Monday when President Obama signed legislation establishing a national park in, of all places, Paterson, N.J., a faded industrial town that is one of the poorest in the nation.
 This was no small triumph for Paterson; for its congressman and former mayor, Bill Pascrell Jr.; and for one Leonard Zax, a Paterson native and lawyer who a few years back took on the role of designated pain in the butt to push this thing forward. 
 Reporters deal with people like him all the time, many of them invested in some cause that is unlikely to see the light of day. That definitely seemed the case with the proposed Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park, billed as a way to preserve Alexander Hamilton's vision of an industrial America at the Great Falls of the Passaic River, where every day two billion gallons of water cascade 77 feet to the gorge below. In a draft report, officials said existing parks covered the themes proposed for Paterson. The Bush administration, for economic reasons, opposed adding national parks, and the idea, to the uninitiated, seemed more than a stretch.
 Actually, as a resolute cadre of historians pointed out, the idea wasn't a stretch at all. And for Mr. Zax, it became a testament not just to the power of history but to one thing Americans value even more -- home.
 ''I am what I am because of Paterson,'' said Mr. Zax, whose grandparents settled there in the early 1900s and whose father became a well-known lawyer. ''Paterson matters to me, and the more I talked to residents and scholars, the more I realized how many of them had affection for or took inspiration from Paterson and its history.''
 As historians including Ron Chernow, Richard Sylla and Richard Brookhiser have noted, the country's industrial history began at Paterson. Looking for a site for America's first industrial city, his counterpoint to Thomas Jefferson's vision of an agrarian America, Hamilton saw the raging waters of the falls as an energy source and located his town there. The result, wrote Mr. Chernow, was ''this futuristic city, this model of what America could be.''
 Paterson became a city of mills and factories, making everything Hamilton envisioned: cotton, sailcloth, flax, hemp, paper, nails, steel, iron, silk and much more. Over time, there was the first Colt revolver plant and the world's first motorized submarine. 
 The falls endure. The factories, almost all shuttered husks, are a sad reminder of the nation's industrial past. 
 The roots of the park effort date to the 1960s, when the city fought off a proposed highway through the area. The Great Falls were named a national historical landmark in 1976. Mr. Pascrell proposed a study of the feasibility of the park in 2001. Over lunch in 2006, he discussed the project with Mr. Zax, who investigated its chances and then, after realizing that someone had to be the designated pest and promoter if it was to happen, took on the job of helping get the proposal through Congress.
 WHEN the proposal finally became law this year, the 35-acre site became the 391st national park, part of a network that includes great wildernesses like the Grand Canyon and Yosemite and urban areas like Lowell National Historical Park in Massachusetts. 
 Mr. Zax, who since July has been chairman of the Hamilton Partnership, a nonprofit effort to create the park and related community development, lined up a broad coalition to make his case. History is about the past, but it's about the present, too. 
 One of the supporters was John Hope Franklin, who died last week and had been chairman of the federal advisory board that produced a 2001 report, ''Rethinking the National Parks for the 21st Century.'' He told Mr. Zax that millions of Americans, particularly members of racial minorities and recent immigrants, felt little or no connection to our national park system. He hoped that a park in urban Paterson would resonate with Americans, starting with the Latino, African-American and Muslim residents who otherwise might never set foot in a national park.
 And with the nation's economy sagging and its industrial base in tatters, a remark Mr. Pascrell made a few years back seems even more relevant now.
 ''We have lost our will to make anything,'' he said. ''A guy or gal who uses plastic, uses metal, uses wood to create objects is looked down on. That's why this is important.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (79%); HISTORIC SITES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

PERSON: BILL PASCRELL JR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



63 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Video Pros Find It's Game Over

BYLINE: By RYAN GOLDBERG

 BODY:
Until recently, Emmanuel Rodriguez worked on a stage, under bright lights, amid intense competition and before cheering fans. He was a professional video-game player, and a world champion. 
 Now he works at the customer service desk of a Sam's Club in Dallas.
 Rodriguez, a brash 23-year-old whose nickname in the gaming community is Master, dominated an international field in July in Dead or Alive 4, a popular fighting game, on the Microsoft Xbox 360. He picked up $5,000 and a trophy for the victory.
 The competition, held in Los Angeles, was part of the world individual finals of the Championship Gaming Series, a league started two years earlier by News Corporation and DirecTV. And Rodriguez, given his success and his swagger, was a star. As a designated franchise player, he received a base salary of $30,000. During the regular season, he lost only one match, good enough to be named North American most valuable player. 
 For Rodriguez and others like him around the world, playing video games had become a career. 
 That, however, has changed for many players. Video games may be as popular as ever -- people in more than 65 percent of American households play, according to the Entertainment Software Association -- but the professional sport of gaming has nearly collapsed.
 Major companies have pulled sponsorships and several tournaments have folded. And in November, News Corporation and DirecTV unexpectedly shut down the Championship Gaming Series.
 Rodriguez and more than 100 salaried players had their short-lived dreams dashed. He returned to the job he left in 2007, at Sam's Club.
 ''Going into this, I busted my heart out,'' Rodriguez said recently. ''It felt like I put in all this energy to build something big. I felt like everything I built up was gone.''
 For years, video gamers sharpened their skills for fun wherever they could find competition -- in basements, dorm rooms and even big-box stores. Companies recognized the potential of marketing products to this vast informal community, and a sport began to grow.
 Tournaments were created and existing ones expanded. Events appeared on cable television and on the Internet. Leagues formed, and players received exclusive contracts. 
 But the recession has left only one significant competitive circuit in North America, Major League Gaming. 
 ''We have driven everybody else out of the business,'' Matthew Bromberg, the league's president and chief executive, said in a recent interview at his office in Manhattan. ''The history of league sports begins with one league.''
 Bromberg said Major League Gaming had not lost any sponsors and would turn its first profit this year. Since 2006, he said, the company has raised $42.5 million in venture capital. The 2009 season begins this weekend at the Meadowlands Exposition Center in Secaucus, N.J.
 Professional gaming is divided between two distinct segments: personal-computer gaming and console gaming, which is played principally on the Xbox 360. Major League Gaming features Halo 3, a first-person shooting game.
 Personal-computer gaming tournaments and sponsorships have been hit particularly hard by the recession.
 ''It's kind of like someone hit the reboot button on gaming,'' said Craig Levine, a 25-year-old who formed a team as an undergraduate at New York University in 2002.
 The current landscape resembles the one he entered, with few endorsements and little prize money. His group, Team 3D, is credited with becoming North America's first professional gaming team. Levine managed the team until May 2007, when he sold it to the Championship Gaming Series. The team played the seminal computer game Counter-Strike, in which five-person teams fight as terrorists and nonterrorists. 
 Levine helped develop a model in which independent players could sign with a team, then compete around the world and online. Success garnered sponsorships, in part to cover travel expenses and entry fees. He said that top players could earn from $50,000 to $60,000 a year in winnings and endorsements.
 Rodriguez began playing in this fragmented circuit. He graduated from high school in 2003 and soon after he focused on Dead or Alive, entering online tournaments and small live events.
 ''I was spending between $200 to $400 to go somewhere to win $200 to $400,'' he said, laughing. ''Personally, I wanted to see how far I could go. I didn't play for the money.''
 By 2007, he had won several major tournaments. Big money and stability arrived for him and others with the Championship Gaming Series, playing Counter-Strike, Dead or Alive and other games. The league held a draft, established franchises and opened a competition in which players chased $1 million in prize money during the playoffs.
 In 2006, Major League Gaming was the first to offer contracts to top players. The Championship Gaming Series did the same, and there was a rush to sign the best gamers.
 The Championship Gaming Series began with a five-year plan, but it was shut down after two. DirecTV officials who ran the league declined to comment for this article.
 If fewer opportunities are available worldwide, that has not stopped young gamers who play Halo 3. Nearly six million copies of the game have been sold since its release in September 2007, according to the market research firm NPD Group. 
 Justin Brown, 18, is one such gamer. In Major League Gaming, he plays on a four-person team he started with his twin, Jason. As high school seniors last year, they each won $30,000 at tournaments. They have been playing Halo since they were 13. 
 ''On the weekends, we would play for 12 hours straight, only taking breaks to eat and sleep,'' Justin Brown said. ''That was the greatest time of my life then.''
 Within a few years, the brothers were unbeatable in tournaments online and around their hometown, Urbana, Ill. At one tournament, held at a local theater, they won movie tickets. 
 The stakes quickly grew. At 16, they paid their way into a Major League Gaming event and finished fourth. A year later, they finished second in the league's championship. College will have to wait as they pursue gaming careers.
 ''I never expected to make money off of it,'' Brown said. ''Thinking about it, it's just amazing. We are a small class of people who are able to do this.''
 In 2008, three players in Major League Gaming earned more than $75,000, and three others had six-figure salaries, largely from endorsements. Justin and Jason Brown are well on their way; Old Spice recently decided to sponsor their team.
 Major League Gaming shows events live on its Web site and operates GameBattles.com, a site used by more than a million players, mostly amateurs. A narrow but defined path remains for those who want to become pros.
 Rodriguez was a pro, and he still has few challengers in Dead or Alive 4. For now, though, his game is without a league. He plans to host his own tournament this spring in Dallas. He has also taken up a new game, Street Fighter 4.
 Rodriguez said his mother and sister recently asked him if he might consider college or seeking a higher position at work. He told them he intended to give this quest one more shot.
 ''I still believe in gaming,'' he said. ''I wouldn't be able to live with myself if I just gave it up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emmanuel Rodriguez went from an elite club of professional gamers back to Sam's Club, where he works in customer service.
 Some of the awards that Rodriguez, nicknamed Master, won for his gaming skills. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALLISON SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); ATHLETES (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); RETAILERS (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (92%); SAM'S CLUB (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



64 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2036 words

HEADLINE: Bearing the Cost of Lost Savings

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
JUSTIN WILLIAMS worked as an engineer at Honeywell International for 31 years, and when he retired last April, he knew he could not afford to stop working. His home in suburban Maryland, on which he had spent his 401(k) savings, was losing value, and his pension did not replace enough of his former income. 
 Mr. Williams, 65, took stock. He did not want another job in engineering. In past years he had volunteered in public schools, helping young children learn reading and math.
Then he did what increasing numbers of older Americans are doing, especially as the economy sours -- he enrolled in community college. 
 ''I realized there was a need for educators,'' in large part because so many teachers are retiring, he said of his choice, an accelerated program in early education at Prince George's Community College in Largo, Md. ''I saw things I could do as well or better.''
 The impact of the economic and stock market declines on retirees and workers about to retire has been especially pronounced. While younger workers have time to recover some of their losses, many older workers and retirees have to follow Mr. Williams's example and remake themselves for the job market. 
 In many cases, they find that their skills, experience and contacts are not enough. So they send themselves off to community colleges or training programs, where they are often surrounded by people far younger, and they have no realistic expectation that whatever new job they might find will produce income comparable to their previous one. In all, it's daunting. 
 ''Major professionals we're seeing are going back to work for lower salaries'' and often downplaying their accomplishments on their resumes, said Margo Brewer, senior educational director at National Able Network, a nonprofit counseling, placement and training service based in Chicago that receives public and private financing. ''The upper-income jobs just are not as available as they once were. And a lot of companies are hesitant to hire full-time staff,'' so they are instead creating temporary jobs. 
 Many community colleges have started to cater to older people, offering incentives that include free tax preparation and valet parking, said Susan Porter Robinson, vice president of lifelong learning at the American Council on Education. Often employers in an area work with community colleges to develop curriculums geared toward actual job needs, sometimes providing scholarships or promises of jobs after graduation. 
 Coursework tends to be focused and practical, and tuition well below that of universities, Ms. Robinson said.
 ''Older adults tell us they're interested in certificate training that will be quick,'' she said. ''They don't have two years. What they may be missing are what I call skill-ettes. Right now there's pressing needs for people in fields like teaching and the health sciences, so that's where a lot of the classes are.''
 The hot fields for older workers are the same as those for younger ones: health care, alternative energy and education, and the economic stimulus program is expected to create jobs with the federal government, said Charlene M. Dukes, president of Prince George's Community College.
 Both employers and schools are recognizing older workers as an untapped resource, said Laura A. Robbins, director of the program on aging in the United States for the Atlantic Philanthropies, which provides grant money to community colleges and other programs for retraining workers over age 50. ''You can get community colleges, universities, volunteer networks and employment agencies all in a unified network like a wheel with spokes. But I can't tell you that there's a silver bullet right now.'' 
 Like others interviewed for this article, Dr. Dukes said available job opportunities were clustered around the national median household income of $51,000. The school discourages six-figure expectations, she said.
 ''There's not currently a lot of pathways to help older adults go to the next thing,'' Ms. Robbins said. ''It's not just a short-term emergency problem.''
 For Mr. Williams, the path began at a friend's birthday party, where he learned that the community college provided nearly free tuition to students over age 60 and that it had a one-year program leading to an associate's degree in early education. 
 Now back in school, Mr. Williams and his wife, Cookie, are providing day care in their home, which they hope to expand to a day care center and eventually a private school. 
 ''I enjoy going back to school more than I did in the early days,'' he said. ''It's a pleasure, though I'm usually the oldest person in the class.''
 He said he was happy to be active and building a business -- one not at all related to his previous professional experience. ''I never saw retirement as laying back on a beach,'' he said. ''It can't replace the money I made at Honeywell, but my lifestyle is such that I don't need to replace it all.'' 
 For job-seekers of any age, the market is tight but not impossible, said Ms. Brewer of National Able Network. ''It appears there are jobs everywhere but in limited numbers,'' she said. ''It's a matter of matching skills.''
 One retiree who came through Ms. Brewer's program is Rae Lynn Schneider, 61, of Chicago. 
 Ms. Schneider taught in Chicago's public schools for 34 years and retired in 2003 with full benefits. She thought her pension and savings would provide enough for her to live comfortably, including travel overseas. But now her annuity no longer looks certain because it's invested in the stock market. 
 She did not want another teaching job, in part because she wanted to work close to her home, so she took an eight-week class in basic computer skills and earned a certificate in customer service. 
 With that in hand, Ms. Schneider found a seasonal job at an American Girl store near her home, and she discovered that her skills as a teacher transferred well to retail: she was used to being on her feet, she was a good communicator and comfortable speaking in public, and she was punctual and orderly. 
 ''In this job market, I said, 'How am I going to get in?' '' she said. On the advice of friends and job counselors, she dyed her gray hair blond.
 She said the training she got at National Able Network gave her self-confidence, as well as contacts.
 ''The group I was in really bonded, just in studying the material, which was not easy,'' she said. ''It was mostly women in their late 50s and early 60s. We have similar problems.'' 
 Ms. Schneider's job ended in January, but she is hoping to be rehired this summer. Though the income is below what she earned as a teacher, it is a welcome supplement to her pension, she said. And when the economy recovers, she may be in a good position to earn more, she said. 
 Peter Cappelli, director of the Center for Human Resources at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, said he did not recommend retraining for workers who had successful careers. Instead, he suggested that they consider part-time or contract work in their fields, where they can use their experience and skills to their advantage. 
 ''If someone has I.T. experience but they haven't programmed in a while, it might make sense to take a couple classes,'' he said. ''Or if a C.P.A. has mainly been in management, he could go back and get his accounting skills up to date. But if you're an accounting guy and you want to go to school to learn marketing, then you're not making use of the skills you acquired over the years. You're going to be competing in the job market without a competitive advantage.''
 The good news for older workers, he said, is that they may be more flexible about taking part-time or seasonal work, unless they have to replace a large income. In surveys, older workers and retirees say they want jobs without the time demands or pressures of their old career tracks. 
 ''Until the economy is strong, companies are not going to be looking for full-time workers,'' Professor Cappelli said. ''Project work or contingent work often suits older workers. If you want benefits, I'm not sure how great that is. But temp work generally pays 30 to 40 percent more per hour than full-time work.'' 
 For Sally Stevens and Mark Noonan, who both live in Portland, Ore., pursuing their old career fields was not an attractive option. Ms. Stevens, 58, was a social worker specializing in outpatient alcohol and drug treatment when methamphetamine hit.
 ''I didn't think that worked as outpatient treatment, so I felt totally unsuccessful,'' she said. 
 Mr. Noonan, 56, worked as a technology manager, a job that consumed 60 hours a week and demanded he be available by BlackBerry at all hours. Through Life by Design, an Oregon program that offers training workshops sponsored by a consortium of institutions -- a community college, a university, nonprofit groups, an employment agency, AARP and several public agencies -- Mr. Noonan and Ms. Stevens decided to train for new careers: in gerontology. 
 ''I decided gerontology was a real growth career,'' Mr. Noonan said. ''It reminded me of when I first got into high tech.'' 
 Both he and Ms. Stevens enrolled in Life by Design through Portland Community College, which, like many community colleges, offered an online degree program, relieving Mr. Noonan's fear of being stuck in a roomful of 20-year-olds. Ms. Stevens chose more traditional classroom courses, but with supplementary peer mentoring and online study groups. 
 ''I had a snobbish attitude about community colleges,'' she said. ''I thought that's where people go who don't have much intellectual ability. It's not that way anymore.'' 
 Now Ms. Stevens works as a case manager for older adults. Mr. Noonan designs programs for Elders in Action, a nonprofit advocacy group in Portland. Both took significant hits in their earnings but said they expected greater opportunities in a few years. ''The hardest part was that I was used to knowing my job,'' Ms. Stevens said. ''I had to go back as a newbie, having to ask questions of someone who's 24. It's good for me, though. It humbles you.'' 
 Even when older workers need the money, many say they are more concerned about the value of their work, said Pamela Tate, president of the Council for Adults and Experiential Learning, a nonprofit group in Chicago. 
 ''What they need to do is pay more attention to what would make them feel interested and like they were making a contribution, rather than old-fashioned career advancement,'' she said. ''That's a young person's approach. Now you need to think, 'what are you giving back to society or your company?' It's a shift from personal ambition to social ambition.''
 For Faye Milbourne, training for a second career meant realizing, ''I don't need the attaboys and the kudos I needed when I was a career person,'' she said. 
 Mrs. Milbourne, 57, previously worked for the company that became Verizon -- ''31 years, 2 months and 24 days,'' she said -- before taking an early retirement package in 2006. While at the company, she earned a bachelor's degree in psychology and a master's in urban education. She had no plans to kick back in retirement. 
 ''A friend said, 'You need to learn to do something you would do for free,' '' Mrs. Milbourne said. So she enrolled in Career Switcher Programs at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va., and Regent University in Virginia Beach designed to bring people from various fields into the teaching profession. Now she is a permanent substitute teacher in Virginia Beach, working for a fraction of her old salary. 
 Though her retirement funds have taken ''a half-million downslide'' in the last year, she said she was still secure financially and found the work more rewarding than her past career. ''For the first time in my life I feel I'm doing something I love to be doing,'' she said.
 Yet even this career is threatened by the economy, she said. She hopes to find placement as a student teacher in the fall, then advance to a full-time teaching job. But many school districts, including hers, have been forced to cut back. 
 ''If that doesn't happen, I'll continue to substitute,'' she said. ''And if nothing else, I can always be a mentor.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANOTHER DAY: Faye Milbourne, a former Verizon worker who went back to school to become a teacher, waits for students to arrive at an elementary school in Virginia Beach.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
RETOOLING: Rae Lynn Schneider, an ex-teacher in Chicago, trained in customer service and found work in sales.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA RIVKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SECOND CAREER: Justin Williams, above, an engineer at Honeywell for 31 years, enrolled in an early education program at Prince George's Community College in Largo, Md. He now runs a day care center in his suburban Maryland home, where he assists Theawesome Jackson, 6, left, and Jus'Divine Jackson, 4.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NEW LIFE: Mark Noonan, above, who retired from a technology job in Portland, Ore., trained for a career in gerontology and now works for Elders in Action, a local advocacy group. At left, Helen Toye gets help at a nursing home in Jefferson, La., from Constance Dye, center, and Victoria Lenza, who are retraining to work in health care through AARP's Work- Search Program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE KEEFE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); CURRICULA (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%)

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (59%)

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (59%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



65 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Standoff Ends at Caterpillar Plant in France

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Workers at a Caterpillar plant in the French Alps let their bosses go Wednesday after holding them overnight in a dispute over their severance packages. 
 The Caterpillar executives, jeered by union members, were escorted from the plant by police and union security, after being detained for more than 24 hours, according to an Associated Press reporter at the scene. 
 The standoff ended after President Nicolas Sarkozy said in an interview with Europe 1 radio Wednesday that he would ''save the site,'' and that he would meet with union members. ''We won't abandon them,'' he said.
 On Tuesday, striking workers at the plant detained five managers in a dispute over benefits to departing employees. They later let one manager go out of concern for his health. 
 A Caterpillar spokesman, Jim Dugan, said Wednesday that no one had been hurt. 
 ''At a time when the company is making a profit and distributing dividends to shareholders,'' Pierre Piccarreta, a representative from the C.G.T. union, on Tuesday told The Associated Press, ''we want to find a favorable outcome for all the workers and know as quickly as possible where we are going.''
 A member of the worker's council reached by telephone through a union contact said ''the employees just want a fair deal.'' He refused to identify himself. 
 Chris Schena, a Caterpillar executive, said Tuesday in a statement that the company ''is hoping this matter can be resolved quickly,'' and that Caterpillar's the ''utmost priority is to find a solution that guarantees the sustainability of our presence in Grenoble.''
 Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Ill., in January and February announced 22,000 job cuts worldwide. It is seeking to lay off 733 workers -- about a quarter of the work force -- at its factories in Grenoble and Echirolles. Combined with those already laid off and those whose short-term contracts will not be renewed, a total of about 1,000 workers at the French factories are losing their jobs. 
 Caterpillar France has said the job cuts were necessary because its order book had been cut in half. 
 In another show of worker anger on Tuesday, Francois-Henri Pinault, the chief executive of PPR, had to be rescued by riot police in Paris after workers protesting job cuts at his FNAC and Conforama units surrounded his car and blocked the road with garbage cans to keep him from escaping.
 Workers at a 3M plant in the plant in Pithiviers, in central France, held their boss last week for more than 24 hours in a labor dispute. Workers at a Sony plant in Pontonx-sur-l'Adour, in southwest France, held their boss overnight to gain better severance packages.
 France, with a long history of labor militancy, has becoming increasingly restless as the impact of the global economic crisis deepens. The French unemployment rate rose to 8.6 percent in February from 8.5 in January, according to the European Union.
 Demonstrations in recent months have drawn millions of protesters to the streets to challenge Mr. Sarkozy's handling of the economic crisis. Opponents of Mr. Sarkozy's government say he has focused on bailouts for banks and industrial companies while ignoring the fate of workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (79%); STRIKES (79%); DISMISSALS (79%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); DIVIDENDS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR FRANCE SA (52%); CONFORAMA FRANCE SA (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (52%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); PEORIA, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ALPS (73%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



66 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; THE STARTER GARDEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: A Novice In Search Of Bounty

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

DATELINE: Minneapolis 

 BODY:
 SINCE my girlfriend and I bought a vacant lot in the winter of 2000, it has provided us with a steady harvest of nothing. Perhaps that's unfair. The yard next to our Minneapolis duplex does yield a bumper crop of burr grass and peppermint schnapps bottles -- offerings from our neighborhood homeless, who bed down in the high weeds now and then. 
 So, in the stifling whiteness of January, I resolved to plant a brand new vegetable garden. The plan is to transform my family's diet, save a few coins, make over the property -- and, maybe, receive a congratulatory note from Michael Pollan for my new green virtue. To keep sentimentality at bay -- I'm thinking of all those paeans to the sensual pleasures of loam -- I intend to unloose my inner bean counter. This means keeping a strict account of how much money and time I bury in the garden, and the cash value of the produce I pull out (at Whole Foods prices). 
 In the outlines of this plan I am not alone. The recession garden seems to be enjoying a revival during these bad times. In a survey released in February, the National Garden Association's research director, Bruce Butterfield, said he anticipated a 20 percent annual increase in first-time household food gardens. 
 That said, it is also true that there is a name for folks with the knowledge, resources and experience to successfully raise food. We call them ''farmers.'' According to Christopher Grampp, a landscape architect and historian in Oakland, Calif., the rest of us Americans are willing to devote just two hours a week to our yards. ''Growing vegetables as a major part of your life requires major sacrifices,'' Mr. Grampp said. 
 First-time gardeners also face a number of other knotty choices. Should they cart in fresh dirt to fill raised beds or try to remediate blighted soil? Fertilize with chemicals, compost or organics? Start from seed or seedlings?
 My first decision -- selecting a site -- was easy. My side yard is the only area that soaks up the six hours or more of direct sunlight needed for most vegetables. Yet it has been a killing field for the half-dozen plants I've plunked into the soil over a little less than a decade and then reliably failed to water.
 Testing the soil quality struck me as the first step toward reclaiming our patch of urban barrens.
 ''I think for any gardener just starting out, it's good to get a soil sample,'' said Carl Rosen, an extension soil scientist with the University of Minnesota. In exchange for $15, Mr. Rosen's lab would analyze my Ziploc bag of dirt and send me a pH reading and measurements of the soil's organic matter and its phosphorus and potassium content. 
 Of course these figures would be as random and meaningless to me as Citibank's balance sheet. And so I was relieved to learn that the report would also recommend a specific fertilizing regimen. Universities and extension offices around the country -- such as Cornell University in New York (cnal.cals.cornell.edu) -- offer similar tests. For an extra $15, gardeners can have the Minnesota lab test the earth for lead. Unless it's at really high levels, it won't leach into your vegetables, but it's problematic if your small children, like my two, consume more dirt than they do produce. 
 The report that came in the mail 10 days later indicated that my dirt was nitrogen-poor and only a little less sandy than Jones Beach. If I wasn't satisfied with another bumper crop of burr grass and dandelions, I'd do well to add organic materials to the soil. I thought I could at least try to start a backyard compost bin for all the grapefruit rinds and moldering cilantro that come out of the refrigerator. 
 It turned out we already had one, sitting next to the abandoned boat trailer at the top of the driveway. It's a big, black Smith & Hawken special that my girlfriend ordered through a city environmental program. The next time I mushed up a banana for the baby, I tossed the peel into a blue enamel pot next to the sink. A few days later, the pot was two-thirds full. I schlepped this garbage salad out to Black Beauty and dumped it in. For better or worse -- I'm not sure which -- I'd just become the kind of person who composts.
 Ask a master gardener what kind of vegetables you should grow, and you often get a question in return: Well, what do you like to eat?
 ''I like avocados,'' I told Jackie Smith, an extension coordinator in suburban Minneapolis who also runs the state's testing of vegetable varieties. ''Could I grow those?''
 ''No,'' she said. ''That's a tropical plant. You could grow one indoors, but they'd get way too large before you'd get any produce.''
 ''How about pomegranates?''
 ''No, they're not Minnesota-hardy.''
 ''Broccoli rabe?''
 ''It likes very cool weather,'' Ms. Smith said. ''We have hardly any spring, and once it starts to stem, it's done. Our weather doesn't quite do what it should do.''
 ''Artichokes?''
 ''They are what I call challenging,'' Ms. Smith said, and chuckled. ''You're not going to find a plant anywhere. To be guaranteed of getting an artichoke that first season,'' she said of new seedlings, ''you need to keep them cold at night. Put them next to a cold window. Don't water them that often. I'd call it tough love.''
 Not everything I wanted to grow would require a sadomasochistic streak. Eggplant, snap peas and sweet corn should be manageable, if not without their individual complications. ''Easy is kind of a relative term,'' Ms. Smith said.
 Still, the conversation left me feeling a little like I'd shown up for a fantasy baseball draft and found out I couldn't pick any righties. What I would need to do is select vegetables and varietals that can go into the ground in the weeks after the last frost (around May 1), when the ground dries out and warms up, and, for the most part, finish their act by the first week of October. (New York City's last spring frost comes, on average, between April 10 and 20.)
 I found the seeds at a company called Fedco (fedcoseeds.com), a cooperative in Waterville, Me., where sales are up 28 percent so far this year. All of Fedco's seeds are hardy for Maine's northern climes, their catalog claims. Many are organic and none are genetically modified. 
 My original plan had been to create up to a dozen 4-foot-by-8-foot mounds and line them with plants from the St. Paul Farmers' Market, which moves outside in late April. If this strategy didn't increase my odds of success, it would at least be an easier way to fail than germinating seeds in pots and trays. But as I plowed through the Fedco catalog, my inner consumer started awakening from a deep recessionary slumber.
 Why not buy two varieties of turnip: Gold Ball and Purple Top? The sample-size packs of seeds were only 70 cents (an eighth of an ounce) and $1.50 (half an ounce). Maybe my problem with beets is that I've never had a Golden Grex! For another buck and a half, I took the plunge. 
 By the time I was done entering my Visa number, I'd ordered 22 vegetable varieties and spent $30 (shipping was free). I probably had enough seeds to plant a quarter-acre. It was mid-February, it was minus 18 degrees outside, and I'd already binged on my austerity garden.
 Three weeks later, the seeds arrived in a 9-inch-by-6-inch priority mail package. The box felt undersized, somehow, for the scale of the ambitions I'd invested in it. My first thought was to start riffling through the packets, dropping everything in starter pots that I wouldn't be directly sowing outside. But theonly thing that actually needed to be started now was an Imperial Star globe artichoke, which came in a sample-size pack of 12 seeds. At a little eco-boutique called Home Depot, I bought 120 starter cells, pots and trays in a range of sizes and materials, along with fertilizer-free potting soil. (The receipt: $37.) 
 The next day, I read the seeding and planting instructions off the envelope and sprinkled soil as light as fake snow into a few two-inch fibrous pots (they're supposed to break down when they are planted, with the seedlings, in the ground). Next, my 3-year-old daughter, Bea, and I probed downward with the handle of an Ikea teaspoon -- how's that for folk know-how? -- and deposited groupings of three seeds a half-inch down. I'd sunk four hours, total, into the starter garden, and nothing was dead yet.
 My garden, as it lives in my mind, is perfect: undulating and bountiful and soft underfoot. Sometime in the next week, though, the first dumb green shoot of that artichoke will grope its way out of the dirt and start screwing everything up.
 This is the first in an occasional series of articles about the process of creating a vegetable garden. There will also be updates on the Times Topics blog at topics.blogs.nytimes.com/tag/gardening/. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOUGH LOVE: The author planted his Imperial Star artichoke seeds early, putting them by a cold window to aid in their growth. His daughter Bea's Passover parsley sits nearby. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA JORDE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
 THE GERMINATOR: With help from his daughter, Bea, 3, the author prepares trays for his Piracicaba broccoli, one of 22 vegetable varieties he ordered for the garden he plans in his side yard. His tools: seeds from Fedco (fedcoseeds.com), starter cells and soil from Home Depot (homedepot.com) and several reference books, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA JORDE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (77%); AGRONOMY (77%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); HISTORY (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



67 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Just Medicine

BYLINE: By PHILIP K. HOWARD. 
Philip K. Howard, a lawyer, is the chairman of Common Good, a legal reform coalition, and the author of ''Life Without Lawyers: Liberating Americans From Too Much Law.''

 BODY:
WASTE in the health care system costs America upwards of $1 trillion per year. Much of this waste is generated or justified by the fear of legal consequences that infects almost every health care encounter. The good news is that it would be relatively easy to create a new system of reliable justice, one that could support broader reforms to contain costs. 
 The legal system terrorizes doctors. Fear of possible claims leads medical professionals to squander billions in unnecessary tests and procedures. ''Defensive medicine'' is so prevalent that it has become part of standard protocol -- for example, mandatory pre-operative exams even where the patient record is current, and even for minor procedures. 
 Like a cancer, this legal anxiety corrodes relationships with patients. Doctors and nurses don't want to speak up for fear of assuming legal liability, and this causes unnecessary errors. Under instructions from lawyers, they don't apologize or offer explanations when things go wrong. They sometimes conceal errors in an effort to avoid a legal ordeal. Even in ordinary daily encounters, an invisible wall separates doctors from their patients. As one pediatrician told me, ''You wouldn't want to say something off the cuff that might be used against you.'' 
 As the culture of health care disintegrates, costs rise further. In hospitals, self-protective bureaucracy multiplies. Patient encounters require witnesses, wasting professional time. Patients, sensing distrust, demand second opinions even on minor ailments. There are psychological costs as well: doctors no longer find professional fulfillment and drop out in their prime. Forget productivity -- sometimes doctors avoid using e-mail so they don't have to put things in writing. 
 Restoring a foundation of trust requires a new system of medical justice. Medical cases are now decided jury by jury, without consistent application of medical standards. According to a 2006 study in the New England Journal of Medicine, around 25 percent of cases where there was no identifiable error resulted in malpractice payments. Nor is the system effective for injured patients -- according to the same study, 54 cents of every dollar paid in malpractice cases goes to administrative expenses like lawyers, experts and courts.
 America needs special health courts aimed not at stopping lawsuits but at delivering fair and reliable decisions. A special court would provide expedited proceedings with knowledgeable staff that would work to settle claims quickly. Trials would be conducted before a judge who is advised by a neutral expert, with written rulings on standards of care. 
 With a special health court, damages would consist of all lost income and medical costs, plus ''pain and suffering'' based on a set schedule depending on the severity of the injury. All information about each incident, including details learned in settlements, would be compiled and disseminated so that doctors and hospitals could learn from their errors. Proponents of special health courts have estimated that the total cost of such a new liability system would be about the same as the existing system -- less than 2 percent of America's total health care costs. One benefit would be that the quicker, streamlined system would compensate far more people, with drastically lower legal costs. Most important, it would restore faith in the reliability of medical justice.
 A court that freed doctors from worries about unnecessary and unreasonable malpractice claims would transform the culture of health care. Doctors could finally emerge from their defensive cocoons and start focusing on the health of the patient. Hospitals would concentrate on productivity and safety. Doctors could be more candid about decisions for terminally ill patients, and offer more guidance about high-risk procedures. 
 This country has a long tradition of courts and tribunals to deal with issues like bankruptcy that require special expertise. Nowhere is that expertise, along with the stability and trust it would bring, more needed than in health care.
 Several prominent hospitals, including New York Presbyterian, have said they are interested in being part of a health court pilot project. Some large consumer and patient safety groups support the idea. The fastest way to do this would be for Congress to authorize and finance pilot courts around the country. These ideas already have some bipartisan support: Bills for alternative medical justice systems have been introduced in Congress.
 Cutting back on the notorious inefficiency of American health care is essential to achieve universal care, as well as make the American economy more competitive. Part of the solution -- overhauling the reimbursement model so that doctors get paid only for what is needed -- is unavoidably complex. But restoring trust in law, the other essential reform, can be accomplished with the creation of reliable courts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (88%); JURY TRIALS (85%); DAMAGES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); JUDGES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



68 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Home Sales Helps Counter Gloomy Jobs Data

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
New economic data, including a report that raised questions about whether unemployment was rising faster than economists had expected, gave mixed messages about the health of the economy on Wednesday. 
 In a series of reports from the government and private groups, an index of manufacturing activity improved slightly in March but was still mired in negative terrain. Construction spending fell. And a measure of pending home sales rose as housing prices continued to drop. 
 A report from ADP and Macroeconomic Advisers said the private sector shed an estimated 742,000 jobs in March, a higher figure than average expectations for the government's monthly report on unemployment. Economists say they believe the economy lost 660,000 jobs in March, and are waiting for the Labor Department to release its jobless report on Friday.
 But whether job losses for the month total 600,000 or more than 700,000, economists are bracing for a bad number. 
 Other reports released on Wednesday offered glimpses of daylight, but only faint ones.
 The Institute for Supply Management said its March report showed that manufacturing conditions declined for a 14th month, but the group's index rose slightly, to 36.3, from 35.8 a month ago, possibly reflecting moderation in the declines. 
 New orders increased 8.1 percent, which prompted one economist to report seeing some ''shoots of green in the details'' of the report.
 The National Association of Realtors reported that sales of pending homes rose a seasonally adjusted 2.1 percent in February from a month earlier, bolstered by double-digit increases in the Northeast and Midwest. The index of pending-home sales -- which encompasses deals that have signed contracts but have not closed -- bounced off a record low.
 The group's index of affordability rose to a record as home prices continued to slide and mortgage rates declined. The Mortgage Bankers Association said the average interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 4.61 percent last week as the Federal Reserve's actions to ease lending rippled through credit markets.
 The government's latest report on construction spending showed a decline of 0.9 percent in February, a shallower drop than expected.
 But residential construction hit another wall. Spending on residential construction projects fell 4.1 percent from January and was 29 percent lower than a year ago. Spending to build offices, highways, hospitals and other nonresidential projects was up slightly, but economists expect that section of the market to shrink.
 ''There's no sign of any inflection point at all,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist for the research firm High Frequency Economics. ''The trend is clearly downward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (85%); MORTGAGE RATES (85%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NEW ORDERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



69 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: With April 15 in Mind, It's Time to Strategize

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
RETAILERS and transit systems are not alone in offering senior discounts. There are also tax breaks for retirees or people saving for retirement. Many of the benefits require careful financial planning, however, and now, with your tax information fresh in mind, is an ideal time to consider tax-saving strategies. 
 It is even possible to save on 2008 taxes. Single people whose adjusted gross income is less than $53,000 have until April 15 to contribute up to $5,000 -- or for those age 50 and older, $6,000 -- to traditional, deductible I.R.A.'s. Those with higher incomes, up to $63,000, are allowed smaller contributions.
 For couples filing jointly, the income limit phases out between $85,000 and $105,000. Even people who are retired but younger than 70 1/2 may contribute if they have enough earned income to offset the contribution. 
 Most tax-saving strategies, however, are for this year and beyond. Do not assume that your lawyer or accountant will keep you advised of new strategies and changes in the law, said Julian Block, a tax lawyer in Larchmont, N.Y. ''At the very least, you should be knowledgeable enough to raise good questions and evaluate answers when you deal with a professional,'' he said. ''The informed client gets the best advice.''
 Following are some strategies from Mr. Block and other tax professionals.
 RETIREMENT PLANS AND INCOME Health savings accounts, sometimes known as H.S.A.'s, which can be established only in conjunction with a high-deductible health insurance plan, can add to retirement savings, said Tim Kochis, chief executive of Aspiriant, an independent wealth management firm with offices in San Francisco and Los Angeles. Pretax money that is not used for medical expenses accumulates in the plan, as it does in an I.R.A., and at age 65 people can draw on the plan for retirement. Many employers are now offering high-deductible plans in their benefits menus. 
 Required minimum distributions from retirement plans -- which normally must begin by April 1 of the year after the account holder turns 70 1/2 -- have been suspended for 2009. However, account holders may take the distributions, and several advisers, expecting that top tax rates will rise, suggested that affluent taxpayers take distributions this year. 
 Higher tax rates make Roth I.R.A.'s especially attractive because distributions are tax-free, said Avery E. Neumark, a partner in the New York accounting firm Rosen Seymour Shapss Martin & Company. Single taxpayers with an adjusted gross income of less than $105,000 for this year, phasing out at $120,000, and joint filers with incomes of less than $166,000, phasing out at $176,000, are eligible. It's a good time to convert a regular I.R.A. to a Roth now, when account values are battered, because the taxes due will be lower.
 Social Security also figures into tax planning. In recent years, some people have retired early and applied for Social Security at age 62. Now, seeing their retirement account balances shrinking, they might want to do consulting or part-time work, but they should visit a Social Security office before doing so. For people younger than full retirement age (66 for those born from 1943 through 1954) $1 in benefits will be deducted for each $2 earned above the annual limit, $14,160 this year. 
 Another decision, Mr. Neumark said, is when to take Social Security. There is no penalty for earned income for people older than full retirement age, but some prefer to wait until age 70 because the monthly payment is higher then, and over a long life the total payout will also be higher. But it is a complex decision, involving other assets, income taxes and estate plans, so it is best discussed with an adviser. 
 WHERE TO LIVE The choice of whether to continue to live in your own home or to move -- perhaps to a warmer climate or a smaller home -- is essentially a lifestyle decision, but one that can have tax consequences as well. 
 A widow who had become physically weak but who wanted to stay in her home hired a maid and a gardener to do work she could no longer do. As she learned from her lawyer, what is known as the nanny tax applies to any household employee, and her maid was legally a part-time worker. That required filing proper tax papers and paying Social Security, Medicare and perhaps unemployment taxes. State laws on workers' compensation insurance vary. The gardener, who owned a landscaping business and had many clients, was an outside contractor, so no such filings were required. The legal tests for the distinction between employee and outside contractor are complex, so it is best to consult your accountant or lawyer on individual cases. 
 Mr. Block said retirees who wanted to relocate and sell homes they had owned for two or three decades might find that, even in today's depressed real estate market, they had capital gains that exceeded the tax exclusions of $500,000 for a couple or $250,000 for a single filer. But they might be able to escape capital gains taxes, he said, if they had big carry-forward losses from last year or were sitting on wilted stock portfolios. They could sell some losers to offset the gains on the home sales. 
 To qualify for the gains exclusion, the home must have been the taxpayer's principal residence for two of the last five years. Effective last year, a surviving spouse may exclude capital gains of up to $500,000 if the home sale is within two years of the other spouse's death.
 WILLS AND GIFTS Review estate plans to be sure that they are up to date with both current law and your personal finances, advised Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer and certified public accountant. He told of a recently widowed woman whose husband left their house and his retirement plan to her, but the retirement assets were so badly eroded last year that she now lacks the money for living expenses. Other assets were bequeathed to others, and she has no claim to them. 
 Estates of less than $3.5 million will not be subject to taxes this year. Under present law there is supposed to be no estate tax in 2010, and in 2011 it is set to revert to the 2001 level of $1 million. But there is wide expectation among tax professionals that Congress will pass a new law to change that. 
 They advise people with sizable assets, comfortably exceeding what they will need in retirement, to make gifts to reduce their taxable estates. This year people may give up to $13,000 each to as many people as they like. 
 Mr. Kess said that even more could effectively be given by paying education expenses for grandchildren, provided the money goes directly to the schools, and by contributing to Section 529 college plans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (69%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



70 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: A-Plant's Life Is Prolonged In New Jersey

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission voted Wednesday to allow the Oyster Creek nuclear reactor in South Jersey to operate for another 20 years, rejecting claims made by opponents about risk. 
 The Oyster Creek case had generated intense interest because the plant, in Lacey Township in Ocean County, is the nation's oldest nuclear reactor, having opened in 1969, and rust had corroded its steel liner. The liner would contain radioactive steam in an emergency and supports hundreds of tons of water in a pool above the reactor during routine refueling. 
 But after extensive repeated examinations by the plant's operator, now called the Amergen Energy Company, engineers at the regulatory commission concluded that the rust was not progressing and that enough metal remained for safe operation. 
 Since 2000, the commission has allowed extensions of initial 40-year licenses for 51 other reactors in the country. By authorizing its staff to extend the Oyster Creek license, it sent a signal that opponents of renewals at other plants -- including Indian Point 2 and 3 in Buchanan, N.Y., and Vermont Yankee in Vernon, Vt. -- may find it hard to prevail. 
 Three of the commission's four members voted to uphold a ruling by a lower regulatory panel to license the plant and deny an appeal by opponents who wanted the case reopened for discussion. The fourth dissented from part of the majority opinion but said he agreed with much of it. 
 Some commission officials have even discussed the possibility of a second round of extensions that would allow reactors to operate for up to 80 years. The commission's position is that the initial licenses were limited to 40 years to address antitrust concerns and future economic considerations -- not because of the reactors' physical limits.
 The prospect of higher prices for competing fuels like oil and natural gas has also been good news for old nuclear reactors lately. Proposals to impose new costs on coal-fired plants for the carbon dioxide they emit, a factor in global warming, have also heartened nuclear operators.
 Opponents of the Oyster Creek extension had been hopeful that President Obama would appoint new members to the commission who were less friendly to the industry before the decision. (There is one vacancy now, and another may open this summer.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POWER PLANTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (55%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

COMPANY: ASHTEAD PLANT HIRE CO LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



71 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: A Quest for a Home, Put On Hold

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN

 BODY:
WEST NEW YORK, N.J.
 THE one thing Marge Yanker knows for sure about her next move is that she wants it to be her last.
At 73, retired twice -- first as an executive of the American Management Association, then as associate chancellor of the University of South Carolina at Beaufort -- Dr. Yanker has lived in 11 states (and been to scores of foreign countries), but she says the move to a duplex here two years ago has been overwhelming and exhausting. 
 Weary of ownership worries like appliance repair and lawn maintenance, Dr. Yanker sold the last of four homes she had owned in South Carolina over 40 years and invested the $500,000 profit. Thus began her quest to find a continuing care retirement community that would allow her to keep the busy life of organizations, activities, friendships and lifelong learning that she loves -- and, when the time came, to ease into assisted living or even nursing care without wrenching decisions or hassle. 
 But as 2009 dawned, Dr. Yanker was not, as she expected, finalizing plans to move into SearStone in Cary, N.C. (''Where your options keep getting better with age''), or Kendal at Oberlin, in Ohio (''Yesterday, today, tomorrow -- celebrate life'') or The Classic Residence by Hyatt in Palo Alto, Calif. (''Worry less, live more''). Instead, she found herself waking up at 3:30 a.m., around the time Fidelity Investments updates its mutual fund balances online, to see how her nest egg had shriveled. And, for the first time in her life, she is buying the occasional $2 lottery ticket.
 ''That's the only way I can refill the pot,'' said Dr. Yanker, who has a Ph.D. in education and anthropology and was widowed on her 38th wedding anniversary, in 1994. ''We are never going to recoup this market. When your broker tells you, or your kids tell you, or the media tells you, 'The market's coming back,' the truth of the matter is we aren't going to be here when it comes.''
 Dr. Yanker knows she has it better than most. She is in great health, not even taking any medication regularly (though she notes, sardonically, that the actuarial tables suggest that this will mean more years of expenses to underwrite). She has five children eager to help support her (though one was recently laid off). She still has significant savings, and while she does not live extravagantly, she could certainly downsize (she tried in vain to get her landlord to lower the $4,000 monthly rent on her waterfront apartment to the current market rate when the lease expires in June). 
 The uncertainty she suddenly faces -- after years of careful spending and saving, meticulous research and planning -- is resonant across the income spectrum. While some retirees are visiting food pantries or applying for food stamps for the first time, others are redrawing expectations about what they will be able to leave behind for heirs or charities.
 In the middle are the hundreds of thousands of older Americans who are sitting on homes they cannot sell, watching dividends disappear and, in many cases, putting off much-anticipated moves into retirement communities.
 The National Investment Center for the Seniors Housing and Care Industry estimates that occupancy rates for independent and assisted living fell about 2 percent last year, and up to 20 percent or more in hard-hit areas like Florida. Waiting lists are vanishing, and some high-end developments are offering unprecedented bridge loans or month-to-month deals to lure residents. (Continuing care generally has an up-front buy-in of $100,000 to more than $500,000 that keeps members housed until death, with monthly payments depending on the range of health services needed.)
 ''Last fall, when concerns about the economy came to the forefront, yes, we saw more hesitancy or delays in making the move,'' said Amy Schuster, a spokeswoman for Atria Senior Living Group, which runs 127 continuing care communities in 27 states.
 Judith A. Lamoureux, director of sales and marketing at The Highlands in Topsham, Me., said more families were pooling resources or using home-equity loans to finance down payments, and that her facility had started offering seminars on ''lending, long-term planning, real estate and right-sizing for the future.''
 Dr. Yanker attacked the search for her last move with zeal, collecting stacks of glossy brochures with horses or farm scenes on the covers, and visiting no fewer than 18 communities in the Carolinas, Florida, Illinois, California, Kentucky, Texas, Ohio, New York and New Jersey. She ruled out the most expensive, The Clare at Chicago's Water Tower, because she felt it was too institutional. She keeps up e-mail friendships with residents she met at several locations; the places affiliated with universities, she said, feel most like home.
 Over the past year, Dr. Yanker said, she has lost about 30 percent of the value of her I.R.A.'s, and more than half of her real estate bounty, which she had invested 70 percent in stocks and 30 percent in bonds at the market's height. Now she is pondering whether it's worth the tax penalty to cash out her retirement accounts for the entry fee to a continuing care community, or whether it's time to accept help from her children. She is also considering putting everything in storage and shuttling among friends and relatives for awhile.
 ''If I can't do it, I will go and find the cheapest apartment I can find that is safe,'' she said. ''It won't be in New York, and it won't be my last move. It's not what I want to do.''
 Dr. Yanker is a savvy, spunky, seize-the-day kind of senior who started riding a motorcycle at age 67 and traveled to Cali, Colombia, over Christmas to watch bullfighting. She takes the ferry, bus and subway into Manhattan six days out of seven, serving as the volunteer organizer of a lifelong learning program at New York University (whose closure at year's end has contributed to her sense that it is time to move on), attending plays or meeting for monthly lunches with any number of networking groups. 
 Her two-bedroom, two-and-a-half bath duplex here, with its postcard-perfect view of Midtown from the den, is splashed with bold pieces by the Brazilian neo-pop artist Romero Britto, including a portrait that her son commissioned showing Dr. Yanker with polka-dot hair dancing in high heels with arms spread to embrace all life offers. 
 Though she is hardly suffering, life is suddenly circumscribed. Dr. Yanker, who not too long ago took 18 family members on safari in Kenya, this year is eschewing gifts to all but the youngest two of her nine grandchildren. On Sunday, bound for Brooklyn to meet a friend, she skipped the $11 ferry, instead taking the bus for $1.15, but when on the return trip she discovered the bus had a different weekend route, she had to take a cab and ended up second-guessing herself for spending the $10.
 ''In my life, until now, I have never done that kind of penny counting,'' Dr. Yanker said. ''I never lived extravagantly. I'm not a clotheshorse. Spend money on travel; spend money on education. Usually had a decent place; could do the things I wanted to do without having to think about it very much. Now, when I look back, I say: Why did I in such a cavalier way think that I could go to dinner whenever I wanted to, that I could go to the theater whenever I wanted to, that I could take that trip?''
 After weeks of waking up in the middle of the night to check her Fidelity accounts, Dr. Yanker finally cashed the stocks on March 16 -- just before the market rallied 600 points. ''So I'm kicking myself, but I'm sleeping better,'' she said. That weekend, out to dinner with friends, ''I said, 'I'll buy, I feel wealthy today, I didn't lose any money this week.' ''
 Now, she says, she is unsure whether to spend $45 for dinner with one of two groups of bullfighting aficionados she belongs to -- something she ''wouldn't have thought twice about'' a year ago. It reminds her of decades ago, when her mother admitted she had skipped the church supper because she could not afford it.
 Dr. Yanker and her husband drove the next day to Henderson, Ky., Dr. Yanker's hometown. To help Mom while preserving her dignity, they bought her house. ''From that moment on, my relationship with my mother changed,'' Dr. Yanker recalled. ''I became the parent. My mom would call me and would say, 'I really thought that I would put a new garage on.' She would call me and ask for things like a child would ask, 'Can I have a candy bar?' ''
 Now, Dr. Yanker must decide whether to let her own children help her live out her life as she wants. 
 ''They say, 'Mother, you have five children, we are always certainly ready to step up to the plate,' '' she said. ''I kid back and say, 'I'm certain when I'm sitting outside Grand Central with a cup, you'll step up.' But it's uncomfortable for me.
 ''I don't want to change our relationship. I don't want to go to my children like children go to parents, 'Please can I have this, can I have a new dress?' I'm not prepared yet to be in that role.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUMPY LANDING: Marge Yanker, 73, has had to scale back her life and her meticulous plans for retirement because of the economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 NEXT STOP?: Marge Yanker, with a portrait of her by the Brazilian artist Romero Britto, in her home in West New York, N.J., which she will be leaving soon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); CHILDREN (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); LOTTERIES (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: CLASSIC RESIDENCE BY HYATT (67%); FMR CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (58%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (67%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (67%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



72 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Protecting Retirement Accounts From Creditors

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
RETIREMENT accounts remain among many people's most valuable assets, even at today's depressed values. That means you need to protect them from creditors, a category that can include former spouses or people who have won lawsuits against you.
 The asset protection strategies available to you depend on the type of account you have, where you live and whether you inherited the assets or amassed the funds yourself, among other factors. 
You can start by understanding the exemptions in federal or state laws that may protect your retirement accounts. The good news is that most employer-sponsored plans, including 401(k)'s, are covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, known as Erisa, and are completely protected from creditors -- except when those creditors are former spouses or the I.R.S., said D. James Gehring, a lawyer with Seyfarth Shaw in Chicago. 
 The bad news is that individual retirement accounts are not covered by Erisa. If you have filed for bankruptcy, federal law protects up to $1 million in an I.R.A. that you contributed to directly, and protects the entire account balance if the money was rolled over into an I.R.A. from a company plan, said Jonathan E. Gopman, a lawyer with Cummings & Lockwood in Naples, Fla. So it's important to keep careful records tracing the funds. 
 For anything short of bankruptcy, state law determines whether I.R.A.'s (including Roth I.R.A.'s) are shielded from creditors' claims, Mr. Gopman said.
 Most states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, exempt 100 percent of the assets while they are in the account. But laws in other states vary widely on whether withdrawals are covered, whether protections extend to inheritors as well as the initial owner and whether former spouses can reach the funds. 
 Some states limit how much is exempt -- Nevada caps it at $500,000 -- while California and other states exempt only what is ''reasonably necessary'' to support the owner and her dependents. Such wording is, inevitably, an invitation to lawsuits. 
 In deciding whether, under California law, an I.R.A. can be attached by creditors, courts look at the owner's age, earning ability and other assets, said Alex M. Brucker, a lawyer with Brucker Morra in Los Angeles. If someone had a $1 million company plan that was fully protected from creditors, a court might find that a $500,000 I.R.A. was more than what was reasonably necessary and thus should not receive the same protection, he said. And in some states, an innocent misstep could leave retirement assets vulnerable to creditors' claims.
 If, for example, you have been laid off or are retiring, rolling over assets from a qualified plan, like a 401(k), into an I.R.A. has estate-planning benefits. However, if you live in or are moving to a state where I.R.A.'s are not protected from creditors, you would be better off leaving the assets in the company plan, Mr. Gehring said. So you should consult a lawyer familiar with the rules of the state where you plan to live. 
 If you have at least $5,000 in the plan, the company must allow you to leave the money there until you are 65, but it is not required to let you take partial withdrawals or borrow against the account, Mr. Gehring said. ''If the company goes bankrupt, your money is perfectly safe,'' he said, because the business must keep retirement funds in a separate trust where its own creditors can't reach them. 
 If you are leaving a company that has a cash-balance pension plan, you should resist the temptation to withdraw the money in a lump sum, Mr. Gehring said, unless you need the money to live on. Upon withdrawal, the money would be exposed to creditors' claims, and you would have to pay income tax on the full amount.
 As with money coming out of a 401(k), you can defer the income tax until you make withdrawals by rolling over the money into an I.R.A., but, again, your protection from creditors will depend on the state where you live.
 For example, you might be returning to work after a period of unemployment and have rolled over an I.R.A. when you left your previous employer. Most companies will allow you to transfer that money directly into their plans as you come on board, Mr. Gehring said. You might want to do that either for asset protection or to take advantage of investment offerings. This strategy also works for people who are starting their own businesses and setting up 401(k)'s, Mr. Gopman said. 
 Note, however, that under federal law an I.R.A. that has been converted to a Roth I.R.A. cannot be rolled back into a company plan, Mr. Brucker said.
 Be aware that state and federal laws against fraudulent conveyance prohibit transfers intended to hinder, delay or defraud creditors. 
 As a rule, such transfers must be in place before there is even a hint of potential trouble, said Gideon Rothschild, a lawyer with Moses & Singer in New York, to be sure they are protected.
 If you plan to leave at least some of your I.R.A. to your family, remember that the assets may not be protected from your beneficiaries' creditors, depending on where the beneficiaries live. 
 But you can shield the assets by leaving an I.R.A. to a trust, Mr. Rothschild said. To do that, you must name the trust (which in turn benefits certain people) on the beneficiary designation form on file with the financial institution that holds your retirement account. You should be sure not to withdraw the money from the account and put it in a trust; that would make the money subject to income tax. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NANCY CARPENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (92%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LITIGATION (77%); ESTATE PLANNING (73%); LAYOFFS (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%)

COMPANY: SEYFARTH SHAW LLP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NAPLES, FL, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



73 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMINST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: At Stake Are More Than Banks

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
As world leaders gather in London for the Group of 20 summit meeting, the most wrenching statistic is this: According to World Bank estimates, the global economic crisis will cause an additional 22 children to die per hour, throughout all of 2009. 
 And that's the best-case scenario. The World Bank says it's possible the toll will be twice that: an additional 400,000 child deaths, or an extra child dying every 79 seconds. 
 ''In London, Washington and Paris, people talk of bonuses or no bonuses,'' Robert Zoellick, the World Bank president, said this week. ''In parts of Africa, South Asia and Latin America, the struggle is for food or no food.''
 That's what makes the G-20 summit -- and Europe's penchant for sniping at the United States instead of doing more to resolve the mess -- so frustrating. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is obstinately resisting a coordinated global stimulus package, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France threatened to walk out if he didn't get his way and the Czech leader threw a tantrum.
 For Americans like me who deeply believe in multilateralism, all this is enormously disappointing and makes us doubt Europe's seriousness. 
 Granted, there are some exceptions here. The British prime minister, Gordon Brown, has a steady hand on his economy and has pioneered approaches to bank nationalization that we could learn from. But much of Europe seems paralyzed.
 Japan's prime minister, Taro Aso, drew on the lessons of Japan's ''lost decade'' to scold Germany in an interview with The Financial Times for its dithering about a stimulus. When a Japanese prime minister scolds you for passivity, you know you're practically a zombie.
 As usual, the greatest price for incompetence at the summit will be borne by the poorest people in the world -- who aren't represented there and who never approved any bad loans. 
 I'm just back from Haiti and the Dominican Republic where I saw the impact of the crisis firsthand. In the Haitian slum of Cite Soleil, ravenous children tore at some corncobs that my guide had brought; it was their first food that day.
 In a slum hospital, where admissions for malnutrition have doubled since September, I met a woman who used to sell shoes on the street. Shoe sales dropped with the sagging economy, so the woman was forced to use her sales revenue to buy food for her child instead of to replace inventory. Now she has no more merchandise to sell, no food to eat and the child she cradled was half dead with starvation.
 Ann Veneman, the executive director of Unicef, says that reports coming in from the field suggest that malnutrition rates are rising.
 ''If you have prolonged malnutrition in kids, it will have a long-term impact on cognitive abilities,'' she said. ''It impacts your ability to learn in school and to earn as an adult.''
 Impoverished parents in developing countries often try to keep their sons alive in famines by taking food from their daughters, so mortality is disproportionately female. The United Nations Development Program says that in some countries, the increase in child mortality during an economic downturn is five times higher for girls than for boys.
 One of the most preposterous ideas floating about is that the world's poor feel ''entitled'' to assistance. Entitled?
 Wall Street plutocrats display a sense of entitlement when they demand billions for bailouts. But whether at home or abroad, the poor typically suffer invisibly and silently. 
 Oxfam has calculated that financial firms around the world have already received or been promised $8.4 trillion in bailouts. Just a week's worth of interest on that sum while it's waiting to be deployed would be enough to save most of the half-million women who die in childbirth each year in poor countries. 
 The 500 richest people in the world, according to a U.N. calculation a few years ago, earned more than the 416 million poorest people. It's worth bearing in mind that the first group bears a measure of responsibility for the global economic mess but will get by just fine, while the latter group has no responsibility and will suffer the worst consequences.
 If the G-20 leaders want to address these needs, there are many ways they can do so with negligible sums. Mr. Zoellick at the World Bank is pushing a trade support program to help developing countries sustain their trade. Muhammad Yunus, the microfinance pioneer who won the Nobel Peace Prize, urges the G-20 leaders to create a fund to invest in organizations that offer small loans or otherwise bolster commerce in poor countries. 
 So what will it be? More squabbling and recalcitrance, or something constructive for those whose lives are at stake in this downturn? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MALNUTRITION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); STARVATION (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SALES FIGURES (73%); NATIONALIZATION (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FOOTWEAR (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); COMPANY REVENUES (63%); RETAIL SALES (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (54%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%); ANGELA MERKEL (52%); TARO ASO (50%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (56%); LATIN AMERICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



74 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Toll Discounts for In-State Residents Draw Constitutional Challenge

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Is E-ZPass helping states violate the Constitution?
 Massachusetts and Rhode Island use electronic toll systems to charge their residents less than out-of-staters at some bridges and tunnels. Now two new lawsuits filed in federal courts say the practice is unconstitutional.
 An out-of-state driver crossing Narragansett Bay on the Claiborne Pell Newport Bridge must pay $1.75 with an E-ZPass transponder in the car, but Rhode Islanders, under a resident discount program introduced in January, pay just 83 cents with a transponder. (No break for anyone who pays cash.) Massachusetts has a similar program that reduces the cost of some bridge and tunnel tolls in Boston for those who live nearby. 
 The lawsuits claim that this differential pricing violates the constitutional provisions that prohibit burdens on interstate commerce and promise equal treatment under the law. 
 ''This type of economic protectionism,'' the lawsuit in the Rhode Island case states, ''is exactly the type of discrimination the commerce clause was designed to prevent.''
 The clause was written into the Constitution to promote a common market among states, and to correct ''cycles of discrimination and retaliation'' that had occurred in the 1780s, explained Brannon P. Denning, a professor at the Cumberland School of Law at Samford University in Birmingham, Ala. ''They were afraid this interstate friction would harm political union,'' Professor Denning said. 
 Since then, courts have required states to meet tough tests if they are to favor their residents. They must, for instance, justify the favoritism by showing a valid local purpose unrelated to economic protectionism, and demonstrate that there are no alternatives less discriminatory.
 Many states have given discounts to residents living near tolls -- even in the days before electronic transponders -- to ease the financial burden of crossings that may be necessary daily, said James A. Crawford, executive director of the E-ZPass Interagency Group, an organization of agencies around the country that offer electronic tolling.
 ''Toll operators have recognized their presence in a community and their need to economically support that community,'' Mr. Crawford said. He has seen no similar suits in which discounts were challenged on state discrimination grounds, he said, aside from a 2007 case in Massachusetts that was dismissed. 
 New York drivers could be affected by the lawsuits, because the state has a large number of resident discount programs. Most drivers with an E-ZPass pay $8.30 to cross the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, but Staten Islanders pay just $4.98. Residents of the Rockaway section of Queens get a similar break on the Marine Parkway Gil Hodges Memorial Bridge and the Cross Bay Veterans Memorial Bridge, and people living on Grand Island north of Buffalo pay less than a dime to cross their local bridge.
 New Jersey also provides various turnpike and parkway discounts that are available to people with E-ZPasses registered in the state, although drivers do not have to be residents.
 In Massachusetts, people who live near the Tobin Memorial Bridge in Boston and who use the transponder -- Massachusetts calls its system Fast Lane -- pay 30 cents to cross, while others have to pay as much as $3. In February, the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority raised tolls at the Ted Williams Tunnel and the Sumner Tunnel, charging nearby residents 40 cents and nonresidents $7. 
 Representatives of the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority, the Massachusetts Port Authority and the Rhode Island Turnpike and Bridge Authority, the defendants in the two new lawsuits, declined to comment in detail about the cases. David A. Darlington, chairman of the Rhode Island authority, said in a statement, ''We strongly believe in the merits of our position, and we believe that Rhode Island residents are entitled to a discounted rate, and we intend to defend that position.''
 The suits were filed by a handful of law firms that specialize in class-action litigation. They seek refunds for drivers charged more than the in-state or local rate, as well as a declaration that the discount programs violate the constitutional rights of drivers.
 In the 2007 Massachusetts case, a state judge, Allan van Gestel, upheld the discounted toll program for residents near the bridges and tunnels, saying it imposed a ''minimal'' burden on the right to interstate travel guaranteed by equal protection. Rhode Island officials have said they looked closely at that case in determining the legality of their current policy.
 In an interview, Judge van Gestel, who is now retired, expressed surprise that his reasoning had had such influence on Rhode Island. He noted that his had been a state-level case, while the new lawsuits were filed in federal court, and that it had not turned on the issue of the commerce clause.
 The plaintiff in the Massachusetts case, Carol F. Surprenant, an emeritus professor of marketing at the University of Rhode Island, seemed nonplussed when reached by telephone on Tuesday. Before giving the name of her lawyer and ending the call, Ms. Surprenant, who has received several press inquiries about the case, said, ''I cannot believe that this many people are interested in restraint of trade.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The East Boston entrance to the Ted Williams Tunnel, one of the crossings at issue in Massachusetts and Rhode Island.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID L. RYAN/BOSTON GLOBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SAMFORD UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (73%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



75 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: People in Need Are Filling and Taxing Libraries

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY and KAREN ANN CULLOTTA; Malcolm Gay contributed reporting from St. Louis.

DATELINE: ARLINGTON HEIGHTS, Ill. 

 BODY:
The public library here had just closed its doors one evening in December when two homeless men who had been using the stacks as shelter from the cold got into a fight on the outside steps.
 What began as bickering took a violent turn when one of the men pulled out a knife and stabbed the other six times, leaving him bleeding beside the book drop.
 Like libraries across the country, Arlington Heights Memorial had strived to keep pace with the changing times, ensuring its relevance in the digital age by becoming something of an indoor town square, and emphasizing that its money-saving services catered to the community's needs.
 These days, however, community need reaches far beyond reference help -- and in many libraries, it is turning a normally tranquil place into an emotional and stressful hotbed. 
 As the national economic crisis has deepened and social services have become casualties of budget cuts, libraries have come to fill a void for more people, particularly job-seekers and those who have fallen on hard times. Libraries across the country are seeing double-digit increases in patronage, often from 10 percent to 30 percent, over previous years.
 But in some cities, this new popularity -- some would call it overtaxing -- is pushing libraries in directions not seen before, with librarians dealing with stresses that go far beyond overdue fines and misshelved books. Many say they feel ill-equipped for the newfound demands of the job, the result of working with anxious and often depressed patrons who say they have nowhere else to go. 
 The stresses have become so significant here that a therapist will soon be counseling library employees.
 ''I guess I'm not really used to people with tears in their eyes,'' said Rosalie Bork, a reference librarian in Arlington Heights, a well-to-do suburb of Chicago. ''It has been unexpectedly stressful. We feel so anxious to help these people, and it's been so emotional for them.''
 Urban ills like homelessness have affected libraries in many cities for years, but librarians here and elsewhere say they are seeing new challenges. They find people asleep more often at cubicles. Patrons who cannot read or write ask for help filling out job applications. Some people sit at computers trying to use the Internet, even though they have no idea what the Internet is. 
 ''A lot of people who would not normally be here are coming in to use the computers,'' said Cynthia Jones, a regional branch manager in St. Louis.
 ''Adults complain a lot about kids just playing games and you know, 'I need to do a resume, or 'I need to write, I need some help,' '' Ms. Jones said. ''There's a bit of frustration.''
 Ms. Jones instructed her staff to tread carefully. ''You don't want to upset people,'' she said. ''You don't know what might set somebody off.''
 Paul LeClerc, president of the New York Public Library, said resume writing had become a major use of library computers, and every librarian in the system had received training in how to better assist patrons conduct job searches. The 40 million visits to New York libraries over the past year, he said, is the greatest ever in a 12-month period.
 Here in Arlington Heights, newly homeless patrons are showing up in their business suits, said Paula Moore, the library's director.
 ''They are living in their cars after losing a job they had for a number of years,'' Ms. Moore said.
 The American Library Association does not keep statistics on incidents in and around libraries, but anecdotal evidence from around the country suggests that some libraries are struggling with their newfound popularity and the social ills that can come along with it.
 In Los Angeles, the police say the Central Public Library has become a magnet for thieves, and that, excluding shoplifting at stores, there were more thefts of personal property at the library last year than any other location in central Los Angeles.
 ''We hope things get better,'' said Lt. Paul Vernon, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department, noting the difficulty of policing libraries. ''The library is a place where people tend to congregate, and from a public and government standpoint, you can't really restrict people.'' 
 In Sacramento this year, two branches of the public library temporarily stopped accepting cash as fines for overdue books, after thieves struck three times since June -- in one instance, taking off with a safe filled with money.
 In Lynchburg, Va., a gunman shot a man outside the public library on a Monday afternoon in late January. The victim, who survived, staggered into the library bleeding and looking for help. Since then, an off-duty police officer has been hired by the library for extra security.
 And in Quincy, Mass., where a man was recently arrested in the library and charged with assault and battery with a dangerous weapon, among other offenses, a police officer on beat patrol now walks through the library during operating hours. 
 Though homelessness is not new to Arlington Heights, security at the library has been tightened since the stabbing. (The man was charged with attempted murder, and the victim survived.) Although such violence is unusual, a library patron, Judi Crawford, said the scene around the building still made her uncomfortable.
 ''I don't like my 16-year-old son to study at the library at night anymore,'' Ms. Crawford said. ''If he is studying here, I make sure he stays inside until he sees me pull up, and he can just run out and get in the car.''
 Other things have changed at the library here, too.
 It has tried to anticipate the new needs of its neighborhood. Next to its welcome desk, it created a job-search desk, and it has recruited volunteer professionals to review resumes, set up a support and networking group for the unemployed, and assembled a Web site offering the best of its online resources.
 Officials said the library was experiencing double-digit increases in the circulation of DVDs, CDs and books on tape. The library's many children's programs and cultural arts events are also filled to capacity, reflecting a growing demand, linked to the economy, for free entertainment.
 With an estimated 2,500 patrons visiting the library every day, employees must now park at a parking lot at a nearby church.
 ''When you walk by our new job-search desk, you see people in line and even waiting on the benches for assistance,'' said Ms. Moore, the director of the Arlington Heights Memorial Library. 
 A therapist is planning to give a workshop at the library called ''Finding Hope After Losing a Job,'' while also offering advice to library employees who are increasingly being thrust into the role of first responder to emotionally distraught patrons who view them as confidantes.
 ''I've had people come in and talk for hours,'' said Barbara Vlk, a librarian specializing in business at Arlington Heights. ''More and more people are in need of help and direction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rosalie Bork, an Illinois librarian, is seeing more stress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); LIBRARIANS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); BUDGET CUTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



76 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: 'ER' Goes the Way of Nurses' Caps

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Yahoo and Netscape first surfaced in 1994. That was the year Nelson Mandela was elected president of South Africa, the World Economic Forum ranked the United States as the world's most competitive economy, and ''ER'' made its debut on NBC.
 Its intense, exhilarating look at an overburdened Chicago emergency room instantly turned ''ER'' into a cultural milestone. Now the fictional County General Hospital is at long last closing its doors after a 15-year run. For all the NBC hype, Thursday's retrospective of clips and a two-hour finale is a little like a postscript. 
 Almost all long-running hit shows indulge in a sentimental victory lap. ''ER'' has devoted almost this entire season to its dolorous valedictory, underscored by cameo reappearances by the likes of George Clooney and Noah Wyle. Most strikingly, however, the final episodes served up a parable of anxiety -- not the viewers' sense of loss, but the creators' fears of oblivion. 
 This medical drama that won 22 Emmy Awards and at its height commanded audiences 30 million strong hasn't received an Emmy since 2005 and is outshone in the ratings by newer hospital dramas like ''House'' and ''Grey's Anatomy.'' 
 Talented, powerful doctors leave the E.R. for cushier jobs and are quickly replaced. A onetime wunderkind returns, and the new interns and residents don't know him or trust his skills, which seem rusty. The doctor who decades earlier invented the modern emergency room is long forgotten -- even he, struck by senile dementia, cannot remember his own name and accomplishments.
 The show's executive producers include John Wells, who was also an executive producer of ''The West Wing,'' and few have any reason to worry about their futures. But all kinds of endings can be traumatic, whether it's a student's graduating from college, a family's moving to a new house or a longtime employee's preparing to retire: did any of it matter, and will anyone remember?
 And more than any other, an episode about change, titled ''A Long, Strange Trip,'' seemed to signal the writers' and producers' underlying distress (and also, perhaps, grief: Michael Crichton, the novelist who wrote the original ''ER'' script in 1974, died last year).
 In an early scene workers cart off dozens of boxes, old medical files consigned to what one doctor describes as ''remote storage.'' (''ER'' is in reruns on TNT.)
 An elderly man is found staggering without a wallet or a memory; only a County retirement watch hints at his identity. The old man seems insentient, but he has recurring black-and-white flashbacks to 1968, when nurses wore white stockings and crisp caps, and police cars, as well as ambulances, ferried patients to the hospital. 
 Next to him, doctors struggle to save a woman who they have determined has terminal cancer. Disturbed but unable to speak, the old man feebly grabs a yellow legal pad and scratches on it ''TB.'' (Fittingly, the episode is laced with strains from ''La Boheme.'') It turns out that he is right, that she has tuberculosis, and that the brilliant chief of surgery was wrong. 
 The stranger, described by one medical worker as a ''demented grandpa,'' turns out to be Dr. Oliver Kostin, an innovator who in 1968 created County's first modern emergency services unit. ''You're all here because of this guy,'' David Morgenstern (William H. Macy), a former County chief of surgery and Kostin protege, tells the ER staff. 
 The episode ends with the main characters respectfully gathered around Kostin as he is tenderly unhooked from machines and allowed to die in dignity.
 And so ''ER'' will end, with dignity and esteem. But so did ''St. Elsewhere'' and ''Chicago Hope,'' shows that are now footnotes in television history. Medical shows thrive on matters of life and death; the final season of ''ER'' has been preoccupied with recognition. 
 And that could be why a documentary crew showed up at the E.R. to interview doctors and nurses about their busy lives -- and most proved too busy saving lives to record their own adequately. 
 The episode that chronicles the departure of Neela (Parminder Nagra) included many tearful moments, like a tender airport adieu with her former boyfriend, Simon (David Lyons). But the emotional high point came when Neela is taken down to the basement to place her locker tag on the hospital's wall of honor. Some of the tags belong to colleagues who have died, but most have merely moved on. As Neela pays her respects, elegiac music plays in the background -- the kind suited to a ceremony at the Vietnam Memorial or Pointe du Hoc.
 Mr. Clooney's much-heralded return as Dr. Doug Ross was anticlimactic: Dr. Ross, still handsome and winning, is still happily married to his broody old flame, Nurse Carol Hathaway (Julianna Margulies). Both stars were eclipsed by a guest appearance by Susan Sarandon, who stole every scene as the grief-wracked grandmother of a boy killed in a traffic accident. 
 The reappearance of Mr. Wyle as Dr. John Carter, on the other hand, was stretched into a multi-episode arc that chronicled the pain of obscurity. His need for a kidney transplant was nothing compared with the shock of returning to an emergency room where nobody knew his name. 
 All that angst, conscious and unconscious, made for a bracing season. Just as TB patients develop rosy cheeks in the final stages, ''ER'' at the end recovered the vigor and urgency of its prime. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many hands and stethoscopes: from left in the front row, John Stamos, Scott Grimes, Linda Cardellini, Laura Ceron, Angela Bassett and Noah Wyle, along with other members of the ''ER'' cast. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. ALTHAUS/WARNER BROTHERS TELEVISION ENTERTAINMENT) (pg.C1)
 From left, John Stamos, Rance Howard as Dr. Oliver Kostin, Scott Grimes and William H. Macy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NBC) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); DEMENTIA (63%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ER (TV Program); ER (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



77 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA GUEST COLUMNIST HEADING HOME; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: The World in One Game

BYLINE: By DOUG GLANVILLE

 BODY:
When people ask me what I miss the most about playing professional baseball, my answer usually surprises them. Fame, fortune, performing and world travel had its perks, but what I really miss is the diversity.
 Take a close look at the recent World Baseball Classic and you'll see how far the sport has come in a short period of time. It is no longer a homogeneous, closed circle of local athletes, but rather an entire world of cultures. 
 Only 60 years ago, Jackie Robinson broke through a glass ceiling for African-American ballplayers, but since then there's been a quiet inflow of many other cultures that has also changed the game dramatically. The powerful impact of Latino players is clear, and they now represent roughly 30 percent of all major leaguers. But in the last decade you can also find icons like Japan's Ichiro Suzuki (who has a type of sushi named after him at Safeco Field in Seattle) and Hideki Matsui, who became a one-man movement in Japan after signing with the Yankees (I witnessed the paparazzi following him around firsthand in 2005). 
 The game has truly gone global, in the process bringing in tremendous new talent. Just recently, a player named Gift Ngoepe became the first black South African to sign a professional baseball contract. Soon baseball scouts will have to cover the entire planet or risk missing a superstar who might not only help an organization win games, but also open up a new market for the business of the game. These international players are not just fillers. The fact that we can now watch teams like the Netherlands make a great run at the World Baseball Classic title -- which Japan has won two years in a row -- makes it clear that the game has grown in ways that once seemed unimaginable. 
 (Watching the W.B.C. was also a great reminder that players we admire, who've carried the banner of the game, were not always born in the United States. Pedro, Jeter and Pudge are all names that in five letters apiece evoke something powerful about baseball, yet in the W.B.C. they played for three different countries.) 
 The game also grows and changes when its doors open up to the world. Each culture adds its own flavor -- just as when Jackie Robinson arrived with elbows flying and spikes high, something unheard of in 1947. It challenges everyone to see the game through new eyes; it improves baseball.
 In this country, in many areas, baseball has often led the way. The longtime battles between the players' union and the owners, for instance, resulted ultimately in refinements in employment law nationwide. Integration of the game sparked our entire country to rethink its attitudes toward race, ultimately expanding diversity beyond just black and white. 
 When I played, I was always inspired by the fact that my teammates of nearly all walks of life prayed together, won together, lived together, traveled together, cried together, rose above together -- and we did it every single day. If you want to survive as a unit, you have to figure out how to work in harmony. Once you taste the power of pooling global, cultural and economic diversity (religious diversity needs some work), it is almost impossible not to have a new understanding of how much people really have in common and how much further we can go together when we respect that power.
 I have had the pleasure of speaking to many players from the Negro Leagues, like Buck O'Neil and Mahlon Duckett, and without exception they were humbled and thankful for their trials and tribulations -- something I found to be amazing. They maintained faith in a better day for all of America -- one in which the game of baseball did not exclude.
 Part of the reason this experience is so moving to me is that I hail from a small town (Teaneck, N.J.) and this particular tone -- people from all walks of life working together -- was set for me from the time I went to kindergarten. Teaneck is known for having the first high school in the United States to voluntarily integrate its student body, in 1965. But more importantly, they took that fact and improved on it.
 So I grew up in a community committed to learning how to communicate across cultural and religious lines. Cottage parties would fill up a neighbor's basement to discuss Jewish and African-American relations, meet-up groups would form to decide how to celebrate various cultures at the high school, dialogues and community sessions were constantly challenging people to learn outside the box. The town decided that it was stronger as a cohesive unit than as a scapegoating machine that fell upon the ease and comfort of stereotyping. It took control of its destiny and found a way.
 My baseball team in high school was ethnically diverse. Unfortunately, it was not uncommon for us, when traveling to some nearby towns, to hear from opposing fans exactly how uncomfortable our smorgasbord of cultures made them feel. Once, one of my teammates got tired of verbal abuse from a spectator who had gone on for an entire game, and yelled back at the offender. After the game, this fan's husband (who happened to be dressed in business attire) waited near our bus and kicked one of our players in the chest. He capped that off with some racially inappropriate comments. 
 But the entire team banded together and stood firmly behind our teammate in support. It wasn't because he was black, or our captain for that matter -- he was our teammate. That moment demonstrated how it's possible to avoid making decisions based on the side of the tracks you live on or what box you check to describe your race in a questionnaire. 
 After I left Teaneck High School, I didn't see quite that kind of commitment -- people working together to make diversity a strength -- until I put on that major league uniform. I still believe it is the best lesson baseball can give us.
 Because baseball's power is unique. No game reflects the cultural diversity of our country on a day-to-day, team-by-team level as well as baseball. (Soccer has global popularity, but lacks that every-single-day presence here.) Baseball has the ability to unite and transcend and, most importantly, share with young people the importance of understanding and inclusion. This is what opens up our world, this is what allows us to see how much more potential there is in cooperation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); WOMEN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



78 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: To Chagrin of Republicans, Compensation Bill Passes

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House has approved yet another bill to restrict bonuses and compensation at financial firms that have received government bailout money, as Democrats muscled the legislation past angry Republican opposition. 
 The vote on Wednesday was 247 to 171, with 237 Democrats and 10 Republicans in favor. 
 Congress has been wrestling with the issue of limiting bonuses ever since a public outcry last month over $165 million in payouts made by the American International Group, the insurance firm, which has received about $200 billion in bailout funds. 
 Amid the populist furor, the House overwhelmingly approved a near total tax on any bonuses paid since Jan. 1. But that legislation stalled after President Obama expressed misgivings. Senate Republicans also voiced opposition to it. 
 The bill adopted by the House on Wednesday would bar companies that received a capital infusion from the federal government from paying any bonus or other compensation that is ''unreasonable or excessive'' as defined by the Treasury, until they had repaid their bailout money to the government. 
 The companies would also be barred from paying any bonus that was not ''directly based on performance-based measures.'' 
 A spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said his party would study the House legislation along with other proposals and would decide how to proceed ''over the next few weeks.'' 
 Democrats, including Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the chairman of the Financial Services Committee and main author of the bill, said the measure would address pay limits adopted in the economic stimulus plan. 
 Republicans roundly criticized it, however, as blatant interference by government in the private sector. 
 The willingness of Republicans to oppose the bonus restrictions seemed to reflect a calculation that the public uproar had mostly subsided and that they would be seen as defenders of the free markets and not as supporters of big Wall Street paydays. 
 A spokesman for the Republican leader in the House, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said Democrats had pushed a bad bill to make up for their failures to prevent the bonuses at A.I.G. He said the measure would undermine efforts to stabilize the financial system by encouraging companies to pay back their bailout money too quickly. 
 The debate on the House floor was raucous and frequently acrimonious as lawmakers traded barbs. 
 ''Would our forefathers ever have considered giving the government a say on how much a private citizen earns, a so-called say on pay?'' asked Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Financial Services Committee. 
 The bill would require the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, to define what constitutes ''unreasonable or excessive pay.'' 
 And Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia, derisively recited Mr. Geithner's resume, saying that nothing in his experience at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the Treasury, nor in his educational background as an Asian studies major at Dartmouth College, qualified him to make such decisions. 
 ''What experience does he have in setting compensation?'' Mr. Price asked. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%); TOM PRICE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



79 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Only Hours From Memphis, but a World Apart

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Lexington is a mere four-hour drive from Memphis. 
 But if you include pressure and expectations, the University of Kentucky and the University of Memphis are thousands of miles apart. 
 John Calipari will find this out soon enough.
 Calipari ended a week of speculation on Wednesday, when he became the new coach at Kentucky -- its third in four seasons. 
 As Roy Williams (North Carolina), Jay Wright (Villanova), Jim Calhoun (UConn) and Tom Izzo (Michigan State) prepare their teams for the Final Four in Detroit, Calipari, with no N.C.A.A. championships, becomes the highest-paid coach in college basketball. 
 Makes sense? It does to the Kentucky president, Dr. Lee T. Todd Jr., and its athletic director, Mitch Barnhart. 
 ''We're the pre-eminent basketball program in the country and if we want a premier coach, then that may be what it takes to get it done,'' Barnhart said.
 On Wednesday morning, Calipari traveled from Memphis to Lexington to say hello to the news media and to friends and issued a disclaimer: ''I do not walk on water and I do not have a magic wand.'' 
 That must have shocked the Kentucky faithful. Why would a university pay that kind of money in this economic climate for a coach who couldn't walk on water?
 Kentuckians expect their coaches to fly. Calipari acknowledged as much when he said the challenge of coaching in Kentucky was not ''competing for national titles, but winning them; but that's what you buy into when you come here.''
 On Wednesday afternoon, Calipari was back in Memphis, speaking to reporters in an emotional news conference in front of his home. Here's the difference between Memphis and Kentucky: Calipari had Memphis up by 9 points late in last season's national championship game. Kansas came back to win in overtime.
 Memphis fans thanked Calipari for taking them so far; in Lexington he might still be receiving hate mail. 
 ''It wasn't about going to Kentucky,'' he said. ''It was about how do you leave a place that you feel so connected to. How do you leave people that you truly love? How do you leave players who have given their heart and soul to the city, the program, to me personally? How do you do that?''
 He did it by looking at an eight-year, $31.65 million deal, and the allure of coaching in a B.C.S. conference at one of the storied college basketball programs. 
 ''I sat there and said, 'Will I be able to live with myself two or three years from now if I let this go?' '' he told reporters.
 Some Memphis students were hurt. Some were angry. Some felt betrayed. 
 ''I imagine they're hurt and mad and I accept that,'' Calipari said. ''I hope they know that everything I did here was try to make it a better situation for all the students. There's never a good time to leave. I will tell you, it's better to leave wanted than to be shoved out of town.''
 More than changing his address, Calipari will have to change his entire approach, which has been playing the role of the outsider, the coach who does so much with so little -- the Little Engine that could.
 Calipari took over a University of Massachusetts program that had suffered 10 losing seasons before he arrived. He led UMass to the Final Four in 1996. 
 Calipari took over a listing Memphis program in 2000. By 2008 he had Memphis playing for the national championship.
 What may wound the Memphis program even more than Calipari's loss is the recruits it may lose.
 Two of the nation's five highest-rated recruits, Xavier Henry and DeMarcus Cousins, have committed to Memphis, and another, John Wall, reportedly the top-rated player, had been leaning toward Memphis. Will they follow Calipari?
 ''What I would hope is all the players that signed at Memphis will go to Memphis,'' Calipari said. ''That's my hope.''
 The reality is that Henry, Cousins and Wall were considering Memphis not because they loved its engineering program, but because of Calipari. They may elect to go to Kentucky for the same reason. If they don't, Calipari's history at UMass and Memphis suggests there will be a line of talent waiting to sign up at Kentucky.
 The difference between Calipari's old city and his new home is that in Memphis there was an appreciation for winning. In Lexington, there is an expectation of it. 
 ''Now you've got to go do the job, which is the scary part,'' Calipari said Wednesday night from Memphis. ''It's standing there in front of you, now go do it.''
 For nine seasons in Memphis, Calipari built his program around the notion that it was an underdog. In Lexington, Calipari is Top Dog. 
 That's a designation that may take some getting used to.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (84%); VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (57%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (77%) KENTUCKY, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



80 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Japan Tries to Increase Exports

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japanese companies are caught in a double bind, facing markets at home that are shrinking with the population as well as the global downturn. Nevertheless, companies must expand foreign sales aggressively -- or face longer-term decline.
 Exports from the world's No. 2 economy fell an unprecedented 49 percent in February. But even as Japanese policy makers call for a renewed focus on domestic markets, companies are tying themselves more tightly to overseas markets and innovation.
''Japanese companies themselves just don't see a future in the domestic market,'' said Yasuo Yamamoto, senior economist at Mizuho Research Institute. ''They're looking for opportunities overseas instead of investing at home. That makes it almost impossible for Japan to reduce its export dependence.'' 
 Prime Minister Taro Aso announced Tuesday that Japan would put together yet another economic package to stimulate demand, with steps to create jobs and further reduce taxes. Japan has already announced stimulus plans worth 12 trillion yen, or $122 billion, including 2 trillion yen in cash handouts.
 A recovery led by domestic demand will be difficult. Even as the government pumps money into the economy, household spending has continued to decline, falling 3.5 percent in February as unemployment jumped to 4.4 percent, the highest level in two years.
 With the decline in domestic spending, Japanese companies have their eyes fixed overseas despite the fall in exports. A cutback in spending among consumers in the United States, Japan's biggest export market, is simply turning attention toward new foreign markets. The trend is clear in companies across the spectrum.
 Hurt by a global slowdown in sales, Panasonic is set to book a net loss of 380 billion yen, or $3.9 billion, just in the year through March. The electronics company will lay off 15,000 workers. But as part of a new strategy called ''Double-Digit Overseas Growth,'' the company is making products specifically for emerging markets like China and Vietnam. And last month, Panasonic introduced a line of household appliances in Europe.
 It is a similar story for Japan's carmakers. While most auto markets could recover from the global slump as early as next year, vehicle sales in Japan are in decline, hurt by a marked lack of interest in cars among younger Japanese.
 Sales of new cars have slumped by more than half from their peak in 1990. An industry organization expects sales to fall to their lowest since 1977 in the coming fiscal year.
 Even Toyota Motor, which has doubled its overseas sales since 1998, experienced a drop of almost 10 percent in Japanese sales in that period.
 At a recent news conference held by Honda Motor's incoming president, discussions about a recovery in sales inadvertently turned to the United States market.
 ''America will always require cars,'' said Takanobu Ito, who takes the helm at the automaker in June. ''In Japan, consumers aren't finding anything they want to buy.''
 Even companies that previously concentrated on the home market are turning overseas.
 Kirin Holdings, one of Japan's largest breweries, grew rapidly as bubble-era Japanese drank more beer. But consumption peaked in the mid-1990s, hurt by a long economic malaise, an aging population and a shift in consumer tastes toward wine.
 To woo recession-weary consumers, Kirin introduced a cheap, low-malt beer in 1998, and an even cheaper beer-flavored beverage seven years later that did away with malt altogether. Kirin also bought a domestic winemaker. Yet the company still struggled to grow.
 Now Kirin has begun an aggressive buying spree overseas to bolster its foreign sales. It recently announced it would spend $1.26 billion to raise its stake in the beer unit of a Philippine conglomerate, the San Miguel Corporation. That came after Kirin bought National Foods, an Australian company, for $1 billion in 2007.
 ''Australia is an attractive market compared to Japan, because population and income are actually growing there,'' a Kirin spokesman, Makoto Ando, said. (Australians also drink twice as much beer per capita as Japanese.)
 Underlying the rush overseas is the acuteness of Japan's demographic challenges. Japan's population has been falling since 2005, and its working-age population could fall by a third by midcentury.
 The Japanese are also becoming poorer, relatively speaking: Japan's income per capita, once among the top five in the world, slipped to 19th in 2007, far behind the United States and many European countries.
 A mismanaged pension system, cumbersome regulation in sectors like services and health, and a stark frugality adopted by many Japanese during years of economic stagnation are also weighing on spending and darkening the prospects of many companies.
 Prime Minister Aso has tried to lift domestic demand with a series of stimulus measures, but gridlock in the country's Parliament is slowing progress. Moreover, economists say Mr. Aso's plans will be little more than stopgap measures.
 ''Any government spending could support domestic spending, but the effects will be temporary,'' said Hiroshi Shiraishi, a Tokyo-based economist at BNP Paribas. ''Japan faces deeper structural problems.''
 Marketers at a baby goods maker, Unicharm, say they have done everything to keep sales growing despite the falling birthrate and sluggish economy.
 A leading maker of disposable diapers, the company seized on a striking fact: even as the number of babies was falling, the Japanese were keeping more pets. So Unicharm used its diaper technology to develop paper litter sheets for cats and dogs. The company also developed a line of adult diapers for Japan's swelling ranks of the elderly.
 But that will not be enough to stem a downward trend in sales, said a Unicharm spokesman, Yasushi Shiraishi.
 To make up for the shortfall, Unicharm is increasing its sales network in neighboring China. This year, the company plans to increase its sales network to 500 cities across China, from about 300 now. The company has also started selling diapers in Southeast Asia.
 ''Thanks to our efforts, we're not seeing sales fall off precipitously in Japan -- yet. But a decline is inevitable in the long run, so it's important to look overseas,'' Mr. Shiraishi said.
 ''There are 18 million babies born in China every year,'' he said. ''That's 16 times more babies than Japan.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Business was slow in March at the port of Kobe in Japan. Exports fell 49 percent in February. Nevertheless, with Japan's population declining, many companies see exports as their best bet.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVERETT KENNEDY BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (55%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (60%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (51%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (60%); HMC (NYSE) (60%); 7267 (TSE) (60%); TYT (LSE) (51%); TM (NYSE) (51%); 7203 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: TAKANOBU ITO (59%); TARO ASO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) KINKI, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



81 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Grocery Workers to Back Bloomberg, Slighting Democratic Rival

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
In the first labor endorsement of the mayor's race, the union representing 12,000 of the city's supermarket workers will back Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg for re-election on Thursday, after snubbing him in 2001 and 2005, union leaders said. 
 The support, from Local 1500 of the United Food and Commercial Workers, is a symbolic blow to the leading Democratic candidate for mayor, William C. Thompson Jr., whose campaign is relying on robust support from organized labor. 
 It may prove scarce. 
 Many of the city's private-sector unions -- and several of its public unions -- appear to be tilting toward Mr. Bloomberg, potentially depriving Mr. Thompson of much-needed political manpower in the race, according to interviews with labor leaders. 
 To compensate for the mayor's staggering war chest, political consultants say, Mr. Thompson will need thousands of volunteers, from unions and community groups, to work the phones and streets from now until Election Day. 
 ''Thompson really can't afford to have labor defect on him wholesale and hope to win,'' said Steven A. Cohen, a professor of public policy at Columbia University. 
 Leaders of the New York City chapter of the grocery workers' union said the mayor had earned their endorsement by collaborating with them to preserve supermarkets in the five boroughs. 
 Under assault from nonunion competitors like drug stores and bodegas, unionized supermarkets have closed in record numbers in the last decade. 
 In its second term, the Bloomberg administration set up a commission to study the issue, and is pursuing a plan to encourage supermarket development through zoning and financial incentives. 
 ''The city has been working hard on this issue,'' said Pat Purcell, who oversees political operations for Local 1500. 
 ''Our members have developed a real confidence in him,'' he added. 
 The endorsement is a reversal for the union, which backed the Democratic candidate, Mark Green, over Mr. Bloomberg in 2001 and was neutral in 2005. 
 With the economy in the doldrums, and the city threatening layoffs, winning endorsements from unions would seem tricky at best. And several unions representing city workers, like the United Federation of Teachers and District Council 37, are expected to delay an endorsement until after the mayor passes a fiscal 2010 budget, in June. 
 District Council 37, which represents 121,000 city employees, endorsed Mr. Bloomberg in July 2005. ''But it's very different this time,'' said its president, Lillian Roberts, who is anxious about proposed budget cuts. ''We will not be pushed into a position because there is a crisis,'' she said. 
 But in interviews, nearly a dozen labor leaders praised the mayor, saying he had proven attentive to unions' needs and was popular with their rank and file. 
 And, privately, several union officials said it was pragmatic to back an incumbent who is heavily favored to win in November. ''The presumption is that he will be around for another four years,'' said one labor leader, speaking on condition of anonymity because his union has not yet announced its endorsement. 
 The Bloomberg campaign is moving aggressively to exploit its advantage. It has deployed two aides, Patrick Brennan and Karen Persichilli Keogh, both former union officials in the city, to court labor leaders. And Mr. Bloomberg himself is sitting down with the presidents of major unions in an attempt to close the deal, aides and labor officials said. 
 In the last several weeks, the mayor has met with Stuart Appelbaum, of the retail workers' union; Bruce W. Both, of the grocery workers; and Bruce S. Raynor, of the hotel and garment workers' unions. 
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for the Bloomberg campaign, said the mayor ''intends to aggressively pursue the support of every labor union in the five boroughs based on the mayor's strong record of fighting for middle-class New Yorkers.''
 Eduardo Castell, Mr. Thompson's campaign manager, countered, saying, ''We're confident that hard-working men and women across the city will support Bill Thompson's record of fighting for them come November.''
 Undercutting Mr. Thompson, unions representing carpenters, janitors and Teamsters appeared to signal their support for Mr. Bloomberg last fall when they lined up behind his legislation to re-engineer the city's term-limits law so he could seek a third term. 
 But union leaders said they are torn because Mr. Thompson has deep ties to organized labor. As comptroller, he oversees pension funds for the city's major unions and enforces the prevailing wage law against employers that try to underpay workers. 
 ''There is a real reluctance to do anything that would hurt Billy,'' said the political director at a major union in the city. 
 The endorsement from Local 1500 could help dispel depictions of Mr. Bloomberg as an out-of-touch billionaire focused on the wealthy in Manhattan. Many of the union's members are black and Hispanic, are in the working class and live in other boroughs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, leaving a Republican fund-raiser on Wednesday, is set to receive Local 1500's endorsement.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); MAYORS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); BUDGETS (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); ZONING (76%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); STEVEN COHEN (50%); STEVEN A COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



82 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 333 words

 BODY:
AUTO SALES OFFER HOPE New-vehicle sales fell in March for a 17th consecutive month, but carmakers said proposed federal incentives could mean the market was bottoming out. 
 CHINA PURSUES ELECTRIC CARS Chinese leaders have adopted a plan aimed at turning the country into one of the leading producers of hybrid and all-electric vehicles within three years, and making it the world leader in electric cars and buses after that. [A1.] 
 BIG CHANGES FOR PCS Personal computers and their makers are on the verge of a major change that will bring laptops the size of a skinny paperback that can run all day on a single charge, have touch screens and cost less. [B1.]
 HARD TIMES IN HUNGARY The sinking economy in Hungary, the former Soviet satellite, needs a stimulus but the government can't provide one -- in part because of an I.M.F. loan. [B1.]
 FEEDER FUNDS IN TROUBLE Some of the hedge funds managers who fed clients to Bernard L. Madoff's are paying the price for not performing due diligence. [B1.]
 OBAMA SEES MISSTEPS On the eve of a summit meeting in Britain, President Obama said the United States had ''some accounting to do'' for failures that led to the financial crisis, but brushed past pressure for sweeping financial regulations. [A1.] 
 RESTRICTING BONUSES The House approved yet another bill to restrict bonuses and compensation at financial firms that receive bailout money. [B3.] 
 A TOO-EARLY SNEAK PEEK 20th Century Fox is investigating how a work-in-progress version of ''X-Men Origins: Wolverine'' was leaked online a month before its release in theaters. [B3.] 
 BEYOND 'EXPECTING' The word ''pregnant,'' once verboten on prime-time television, is now so common that an at-home fertility test will soon be advertised on TV. Advertising. [B3.] 
 HOSPITAL READMISSIONS The nation spends billions of dollars a year on patients' return visits to the hospital -- many of which are readmissions that could be prevented with better follow-up care, a study has found. [B3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (62%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BERNARD MADOFF (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); HUNGARY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



83 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The People Have Mumbled

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
We were so excited about that special Congressional election in upstate New York. Finally, a chance to find out whether the nation really approves of what Barack Obama has been doing!
 You cannot figure these things out with tea leaves or polls. Just ask the Republicans in Washington. They certainly would be giving Obama more help if the country really demanded it. But what if the people who said nice things about the president to the pollsters just liked Michelle's vegetable garden?
 And who better to set us straight than the residents of a nearly 200-mile-long district that was gerrymandered so carefully for the G.O.P. that it wound up looking like an outline of Bart Simpson doing a swan dive? Or perhaps a designer boot with fire coming out of the toe. 
 The Republicans were desperate for some sign that the tide had turned on Obamamania. They all rallied around their party's candidate, James (A Proven Record) Tedisco, even though for a long time Tedisco muddied the waters by refusing to say how he would have voted on the stimulus package. He is the longtime minority leader of the State Assembly, a job that requires all the quick-thinking and decision-making capacity of a fishing warden in the Gobi Desert.
 Still, he was the best the G.O.P. had to work with. Michael Steele, the Republican National Committee chairman, threw whatever is left of his prestige on the line. Rudy Giuliani did a robocall in which he managed to avoid mentioning 9/11 or standing up to terrorists. Instead, Giuliani promised that Tedisco would ''stand up to Nancy Pelosi,'' which somehow does not sound quite as dramatic.
 The Obama administration seemed a wee bit hesitant to place any big bets on the Democrat, Scott (Entrepreneur!) Murphy. He is a 39-year-old venture capitalist with little political experience but a very large extended family -- no small matter in a race that was all about turnout. Everyone seemed agog when, at the last minute, the president finally coughed up an endorsement via e-mail.
 And Joe Biden made a radio ad praising Murphy. True, Biden would go on the radio to say nice things about a molting pigeon, but still.
 Clearly, the voters were being primed for a pivotal moment in political history -- a battle of the giants. The Republicans made fun of Murphy for having been raised in Missouri. The Democrats made fun of Tedisco for not actually living in the district, which you have to admit is a little bit more amusing.
 Tedisco dodged the first televised debate in favor of a Q.-and-A. session with help from the dreaded Twitter at his campaign headquarters. The final question was: ''Tell us how great a representative you've been, and how great a congressman you will be.''
 Anyhow, on Tuesday the voters were supposed to send a message. Or at least they were going to do something that we would get to interpret as a message, and talk about for days and days during the significant chunks of down time that occur at meetings of the G-20.
 We've missed having elections. Lately, all we've gotten is vote-counting in Minnesota and unsatisfactory stories about Senate seats being filled by gubernatorial appointment. The battle lines were murky and some of the governors, frankly, did not seem competent to select a good salad dressing, let alone a senator.
 The 20th Congressional District election was called, in fact, because Gov. David Paterson picked the incumbent House member, Kirsten Gillibrand, to fill Hillary Clinton's Senate seat. Very few people outside her district had ever heard of Gillibrand, though we have since learned that she talks about 100 miles a minute, is extremely flexible in her gun-control positions and once jump-started her legal career by helping Philip Morris keep the Justice Department from finding out the tobacco company knew that cigarettes were bad for you. 
 The proverbial stakes were high when the voters went to the polls on Tuesday. They were voting in Saratoga Springs and Hudson and Rhinebeck. Some people were trying to vote in Schenectady, where Tedisco lives, until the officials convinced them there was no election there.
 They were voting at the Martin Van Buren National Historic Site in Kinderhook. We have been thinking about the eighth president of the United States quite a lot recently, since he presided over the Panic of 1837. If you ever find yourself feeling anxious about the course of our economy today, just tell yourself ''well, at least it isn't the Panic of 1837,'' and you will feel better.
 Finally, the 20th District spoke and ... it was a tie. The Democrat was ahead by 64 votes, but the absentee ballots are still coming in and probably favor the Republican. Somebody will be seated, which makes no difference at all given the size of the Democratic House majority. Nobody gets bragging rights.
 Back to the tea leaves. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TERRORISM (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (62%); RADIO ADVERTISING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); MICHAEL STEELE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); GOBI DESERT (54%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



84 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Eyes of the World Are on Obama

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
The rapid political rise of Barack Obama can be gauged in many ways, but one of the best measures can perhaps be found in London, on the front stoop of No. 10 Downing Street.
 Mr. Obama walked through the famous doorway for the first time less than four years ago. A dozen reporters were on hand that afternoon in August 2005, at least half of whom were waiting for someone else. After speaking for a moment, Mr. Obama climbed into a white van, along with the rest of a Congressional delegation, and was soon walking through the streets of London alone, on his way to meet his older sister for dinner.
 When Mr. Obama came back last summer for a Downing Street appearance on the final leg of an overseas campaign trip, the pack of journalists had swelled by a few hundred. The tabloid reporters, along with adoring crowds, screamed his name. 
 That scene was magnified yet again on Wednesday. This time, after meeting for two hours inside No. 10 with Prime Minister Gordon Brown, Mr. Obama held forth at a press conference that was televised live on both sides of the Atlantic.
 ''I came here to listen, not to lecture,'' Mr. Obama said, standing before a row of American and British flags. Before leaving, he added: ''There's one last thing I should mention I love about Great Britain and that is the Queen. I'm very much looking forward to meeting her.''
 On Mr. Obama's first journey overseas as an American president, the eyes of the world are upon him as never before.
 Gone are the days when he can walk unnoticed into a pub, as he did one night four years ago, and sip a pint with a handful of Americans who were traveling with him. And he surely can no longer express childlike delight, as he did during his first visit to No. 10 Downing Street, when he declared: ''They let me sit in Winston Churchill's reading chair!''
 While the stakes are remarkably high for the Group of 20 summit meeting, where he will meet his new contemporaries from around the globe, this is essentially the trip Mr. Obama has been waiting for since the moment he began his presidential campaign. One of reasons he made the improbable decision to run, he told voters again and again over the last two years, was to try and renew America's image around the world.
 Mr. Obama, one of the few United States presidents to have spent a substantial part of his childhood abroad, has long had a feeling of wanderlust. From the moment he arrived in the Senate in 2005, his aides began sketching out a foreign travel schedule for his first term, all of which was considered official business because he was a member of the Foreign Relations Committee.
 The first year: Russia, Ukraine and a quick stop in London. He played the role of political understudy to Senator Richard Lugar, Republican of Indiana, for his annual inspection of nuclear weapons sites in the former Soviet Union. (It was on this trip that Mr. Obama learned a lesson in the art of patient diplomacy, when the senators were detained for several hours in the city of Perm, about 500 miles outside Moscow. Mr. Lugar let his staff do the arguing as he settled into an easy chair to wait. Mr. Obama quickly followed suit, taking a nap on a couch nearby.)
 The second year: Africa. Mr. Obama traveled solo to the continent of his father, where he was greeted by throngs of adoring Kenyans. (This time, he faced a different question of diplomacy: What to do with a goat that was offered up as a gift to the visiting American?)
 He did not schedule a foreign trip during his third summer in the Senate, so he could spend time in Iowa and other early-voting states. And last year, a high-profile trip to the Middle East and Europe essentially served as a test drive for this week -- except that now the plentiful challenges facing the United States and the world are his burden to bear. 
 ''The world is hungry for American leadership,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview last summer aboard his campaign plane as it flew from Paris to London. ''There remains great respect and fondness for America and the American idea. And if we can tap into that, it will help us with our agenda.''
 When Mr. Obama spoke those words, he did not know whether he would ultimately become president. His trip stirred controversy, with Senator John McCain mocking him in a round of television commercials as a celebrity to the world, showing images of Mr. Obama delivering a speech to thousands of Germans who were waving American flags. 
 Now, that is precisely what will be tested: whether Mr. Obama's celebrity can help overcome resentment of the United States for its role in the global economic crisis. 
 When he arrived at Downing Street on Wednesday morning, his presidential limousine and a full motorcade waited outside.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); WRITERS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GORDON BROWN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UKRAINE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



85 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Brown Urge United Action on World Economy

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Searching for a broad international consensus in advance of a meeting of the Group of 20 countries to debate the global economic crisis, President Obama played down reports of discord Wednesday, saying that reports of international divisions had been ''vastly overstated.''
 But, he said at a joint news conference in London with Prime Minister Gordon Brown, the nature of the crisis demanded an integrated response. 
 ''We can only meet this challenge together,'' he said.
 Mr. Brown -- the host of the G-20 meeting -- said the summit in London faced five major tests to confront what he called an unprecedented economic and financial crisis. He hailed his country's relationship with the United States as ''a kinship of purpose.''
 ''The option of doing nothing is not available to us,'' Mr. Brown said, joining Mr. Obama'a attempt to rally world leaders.
 In the past, Mr. Brown has called the United States the source of the crisis, and President Obama said Wednesday the United States ''certainly has some accounting to do.'' But, ''I'm less interested in identifying blame than fixing the problem,'' he said. 
 He went on: ''I'm a big believer in looking forward rather than looking backward.''
 Both men stressed the need for international efforts to create more powerful regulatory systems.
 ''Across borders there has been a tendency to believe that whatever the global capital markets were doing, it's ultimately beneficial,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But what we have to understand is that that's going to require some sort of regulatory framework.''
 ''That's something we are going to be able to put together,'' he said.
 Mr. Obama sought to play down divisions in advance of the summit meeting which starts on Thursday. ''The separation between the various parties involved has been vastly overstated,'' he said.
 He said that on topics such as government efforts to stimulate growth and impose new regulatory measures, there had been ''an extraordinary convergence'' of views among participants.
 Earlier, President Nicholas Sarkozy of France was quoted by officials in his government as saying he would walk away from the summit if it failed to meet his demands for measures to confront the crisis.
 Mr. Brown said the world had witnessed ''the biggest fiscal boost'' in history to cope with the crisis. He listed the priorities at the G-20 meeting as tighter regulation, the resumption of growth, growth in emerging markets, expanded global trade and help for the poorest countries.
 The British leader said that, as a result of the crisis, ''people have lost their homes, their jobs and sometimes their hopes.''
 Mr. Obama returned several times to the theme that the crisis would at some stage end. So, he said, ''basing decisions around fear is not the right way'' for people to deal with the crisis. ''We are going to get through these difficult times.''
 ''Don't shortchange the future because of fear of the present,'' he said. While times were difficult, he said, the current situation was ''not what happened'' to the generation that lived through the Great Depression.
 Asked what he liked about Britain, Mr. Obama said one aspect of his visit that he was looking forward to was a meeting with Queen Elizabeth II later on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GORDON BROWN (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



86 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Miles to Go on E-Health Records

 BODY:
President Obama is counting on electronic health records to help modernize the nation's dysfunctional health care system, improve the quality of care and reduce its cost. His stimulus package will provide $19 billion over the next two years to promote the adoption and use of health information technology, and he has pledged to spend some $50 billion in all over five years. 
 There is a long way to go. A new study reveals that American hospitals have been appallingly slow to adopt electronic records, just as previous studies have shown that American physicians have been very slow to computerize their operations. By contrast, a vast majority of doctors in four other industrialized nations have adopted electronic records, although hospitals are thought to be lagging.
 The study was published in The New England Journal of Medicine and led by Harvard researchers, including Dr. David Blumenthal, who has been chosen by Mr. Obama to be national coordinator of health information technology. 
 The researchers surveyed some 3,000 acute-care hospitals last year. Only 1.5 percent had a comprehensive electronic-records system in all major clinical units that performed all 24 functions deemed important by a panel of experts. Such systems incorporated physicians' and nurses' notes, the ability to order laboratory and radiological tests, clinical guidelines on how to treat various conditions and alerts to avoid dangerous drug interactions, among other capabilities. Only 11 percent of the hospitals had even a basic system in at least one major clinical unit that performed eight functions.
 The main impediment is money. Many hospitals simply do not have the capital to buy systems that can cost $20 million to $200 million, especially when so many are struggling to remain solvent. Hospitals also worry about high maintenance costs, an uncertain payoff on their investment, a lack of staff with adequate technical expertise and resistance from doctors.
 The president's stimulus plan should help ease the financial obstacles. It will provide $17 billion in financial incentives (higher payments through Medicare or Medicaid) to get hospitals and doctors to adopt electronic health records and will impose financial penalties on those that do not. Another $2 billion will help hospitals and doctors keep their systems working and up-to-date. 
 The ultimate goal is an ''interoperable'' system that would allow easy exchange of clinical data between hospitals and doctors. The modernization effort will have limited value if a melange of different computer systems can't talk to one another.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (93%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (92%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); TELEHEALTH (78%); MEDICAID (73%); ACUTE CARE (73%); MEDICARE (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



87 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Few Power Plants Would Benefit From Change Considered by Paterson

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO; Danny Hakim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When Gov. David A. Paterson indicated last month that he might ease demands made on industry under New York's plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it was with companies like Indeck Energy Services in mind.
 Indeck, which operates five power plants in the state, is chafing under the requirements of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, or RGGI, the 10-state pact to tackle global warming. 
 The initiative, Indeck officials say, is good for the environment but imposes an unfair burden on some power producers. They say the rules saddle the company with unrecoverable costs of $1.6 million a year to buy what are called allowances, which permit companies to pollute -- in Indeck's case, nearly half a million tons of carbon dioxide dioxide at its plant in Corinth, N.Y., in the Adirondack foothills. 
 In late January Indeck filed suit against the state, claiming that it had no authority to impose the emission- control rules. 
 ''We believe in doing our part,'' said Peter Barden, an Indeck spokesman. But, he added, ''This is a hit to our bottom line.''
 Indeck, based in Illinois, is one of nine companies to ask the state to make RGGI less onerous, though it is the only one to file suit. States have the option of giving away part of their allowances to companies that are unable to pass along their cost to utilities because they must sell their power at a previously fixed price. 
 After meeting with officials from some of the companies, the governor angered environmentalists in early March when he said he would consider increasing the number of allowances that the state would give away.
 But market analysts and state officials say a vast majority of the 95 electricity producers affected by RGGI -- which aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 10 percent by 2018 -- appear to have no problem with the initiative. 
 That is because most of those companies, unlike Indeck, can recover the cost of paying for the allowances by passing it along to utilities, which in turn can pass along the cost to consumers. Producers can also resell their allowances in the secondary market if they don't need them, in a system known as cap-and-trade.
 Most companies are expecting the federal government to act to curb carbon dioxide emissions at some point with a similar carbon trading program that the Obama administration and Democratic leaders are trying to push through Congress this year.
 For many power producers, RGGI (pronounced reggie) serves as a useful introduction to carbon trading, said Milo Sjardin, an analyst with New Carbon Finance, a firm that tracks the carbon trading market. 
 ''The essential role of RGGI is to set up the infrastructure of carbon trading in the United States and get companies familiar with the concept of carbon prices,'' he said. ''It's been very successful at that end.'' At the same time, the recession, by lowering demand for electricity, has also lowered carbon dioxide emissions, reducing the amount companies must pay to comply with the initiative. 
 Mr. Sjardin said that despite some complaints about the financial burden, no power producer is likely to pack up and leave the state. ''The carbon prices are not significant enough to really cause large disruptions,'' he said.
 Power plants account for more than a quarter of the 188 million tons of carbon dioxide emitted each year in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic region. 
 Under RGGI, which covers 10 states from Maine to Maryland, companies buy their carbon allowances, sold by states at quarterly auctions. Each allowance grants a company permission to emit one ton of carbon dioxide. 
 Each state can decide what percentage of its allowances to sell at auction and what percentage to give away to companies that are financially burdened. New York, which currently auctions 97 percent of its 64 million allowances and sets aside 3 percent that can be given away, sells a higher proportion than most other RGGI states. (Of the 3 percent, 1 percentage point is set aside for companies that invest in renewable energy.) 
 The states are using the revenue from the auctions to invest in renewable energy sources and projects that would reduce energy use, thereby offsetting any increases in power rates.
 Though most power producers can pass along carbon costs to the utilities that buy their power, some plants cannot recover that money because they are bound by long-term contracts that did not envision this new expense. Indeck Energy's 128-megawatt plant in Corinth has a fixed-price contract with Consolidated Edison dating to 1989. The plant releases 480,000 tons of carbon dioxide, for which it has to pay $1.6 million in allowances each year at current auction prices.
 Indeck and the eight other energy producers are asking state officials to even the playing field by either giving away allowances to the plants that cannot recover their costs or making the utilities that buy the power pay for the allowances, since they can pass the costs on to ratepayers.
 If the state heeded the request, the percentage of free allowances would be increased to 11 percent, said Peter Iwanowicz, director of the climate change office at the State Department of Environmental Conservation. But some environmental groups oppose raising the number of free allowances because it would reduce the auction proceeds that go into a pot for energy-saving projects.
 Mr. Paterson seems to have adopted a more guarded position on the allowances, as the Department of Environmental Conservation has been reviewing applications from the companies to allow the emission of 6.6 million tons of carbon dioxide, up from 1.5 million the state had reserved for companies that hold long-term contracts, at no cost to the companies.
 Risa B. Heller, the governor's communications director, said, ''We will review whether to amend the RGGI rule if it is determined that there is a need to do so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Corinth, N.Y., power plant operated by Indeck Energy. Indeck sued New York State over emission control rules.(PHOTOGRAPH BY INDECK ENERGY SERVICES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); LITIGATION (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%)

COMPANY: INDECK ENERGY SERVICES OF ILION INC (58%); INDECK ENERGY SERVICES OF OLEAN INC (58%); INDECK ENERGY SERVICES OF OSWEGO INC (58%); INDECK ENERGY SERVICES INC (58%); INDECK ENERGY SERVICES OF SILVER SPRINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



88 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
THE STATE OF VOICE MAIL
 When it was introduced in the early 1980s, voice mail was hailed as a miracle invention. But in an age of instant information gratification, the burden of having to dial in to a mailbox, enter a passcode and sit through ''ums'' and ''ahs'' from unwanted callers can seem too much to bear. Do you think voice mail is on its way to becoming obsolete? Share your thoughts. 
 nytimes.com/style
 Opinion
 Timothy Egan The Orphans of Ireland
 Ireland, booming no more, gets reacquainted with its tradition of misery.
 nytimes.com/egan
 Doug Glanville The World in One Game
 Take a close look at the recent World Baseball Classic and you'll see that it is no longer a closed circle of local athletes, but rather an entire world of cultures.
 nytimes.com/opinion
 While world leaders battled to settle differences over how to fix the global economy, riot police clashed with protesters in London. 
 nytimes.com/world
 VIDEO: COMMUNITY DURING
 The Great Depression
 The latest episode of New Hard Times: An interview with Peter Holden and his family about the role of community during the Great Depression and today.
 nytimes.com/thenewhardtimes
 On the White House The One Obama Has Been Waiting For
 This is the trip Barack Obama has been waiting for since he began his presidential campaign, Jeff Zeleny writes in his column. 
 nytimes.com/politics
 VIDEO: U.S.-EUROPE DIVISION
 John F. Burns discusses the disagreements that remain between Europe and the United States on their economic stimulus plans as the G-20 opens. Also, the difficulties ahead for President Obama as he heads into the summit.
 nytimes.com/world
 City Room A New Face on Freedom
 City Room is calling on readers to draw up hypothetical logo proposals for 1 World Trade Center, the structure being erected at ground zero that was known until recently as the Freedom Tower. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 RETIREMENT SPECIAL SECTION
 Finding their nest eggs less than what they had hoped for, many retirees are doing what is necessary to find a new career. Two slide shows as part of special section online. 
 nytimes.com/retirement
 AUDIO: PERSONAL TECH
 A free online showcase for budding artists, new gadgets suitable for travel, the tech term ''trolling,'' a Circuits preview and technology news, including Skype for the iPhone. 
 nytimes.com/personaltech
 The Starter Garden 
 Green in the City
 A new blog about a novice gardener's process of creating an urban vegetable garden in Minneapolis. 
 nytimes.com/home
 INTERACTIVE: THE RIGHT TOOLS
 The essentials every home needs for simple home repair and do-it-yourself jobs.
 nytimes.com/home
 KEEPING THE YARD
 Healthy for All
 The Green Home column asks a nonprofit group devoted to sustainable farming and gardening for tips on achieving an attractive, healthy yard without wreaking environmental havoc. 
 nytimes.com/home

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL DE SOUZA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); GARDENING (85%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BASEBALL (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (65%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (62%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



89 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: The Forgotten Rich

 BODY:
The Senate budget debate began this week against a backdrop of war and recession, rising unemployment and surging foreclosures, runaway health care costs and diminishing insurance coverage -- to name just a few of the nation's big problems. But for Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, and Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, the most pressing issue is clear: America's wealthiest families need help. Now.
 The two senators plan to propose an amendment to deeply cut estate taxes for the fraction of the top 1 percent of the population still subject to those levies. 
 The proverbial millionaires next door -- the plumbers, contractors and accountants who amass substantial wealth through hard work and modest living -- are not the intended beneficiaries of the proposed cut. The Obama budget already takes care of them, because it retains today's law, which imposes the estate tax only on couples with property worth more than $7 million, or individuals with property worth more than $3.5 million. That means 99.8 percent of estates will never -- ever -- pay a penny of estate tax. 
 The heirs of the remaining 0.2 percent of estates are who Ms. Lincoln and Mr. Kyl are so worried about. Their amendment would increase to $10 million the level at which the estate tax kicks in. It would also lower the top estate-tax rate to 35 percent from 45 percent.
 With all the serious work before Congress, it is a colossal waste of time to have to rebut the false claims and warped premises of ardent estate-tax cutters. Ms. Lincoln's and Mr. Kyl's colleagues in the Senate should make short work of it and move on to urgent matters. 
 In addition to creating the false impression that the estate tax eventually hits everyone -- by mislabeling it a ''death tax'' -- opponents routinely denounce the 45 percent top tax rate as confiscatory. In fact, the rate applies only to the portion of the estate that exceeds the exemption. As a result, even estates worth more than $20 million end up paying only about 20 percent in taxes. 
 Another misleading argument is that the estate tax represents double taxation. In truth, much of the wealth that is taxed at death has never been taxed before. That's because such wealth is often accrued in the form of capital gains on stocks, real estate and other investments. Capital gains are not taxed until an asset is sold. Obviously, if someone dies owning an asset, he or she never sold it and thus never paid tax on the gain. 
 If those arguments aren't enough to stop the Lincoln-Kyl show, lawmakers should consider this: The estate tax creates a big incentive for high-end philanthropy, because charitable bequests are exempt. On Tuesday, Independent Sector, a nonpartisan charitable coalition representing thousands of public charities, private foundations and corporate-giving programs, urged the Senate to reject the Lincoln-Kyl amendment and to keep the tax as proposed in the Obama budget. 
 Finally, reducing the estate tax from the level proposed by Mr. Obama would cost an additional $250 billion in forgone revenue over 10 years, at a time when the nation already has to borrow heavily for real needs. Ms. Lincoln and Mr. Kyl have made rumblings about offering a way to offset that cost. Let's hear what they say, and once we see how they've come up with a quarter-trillion dollars, let's talk about better ways to use the money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); WILLS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (68%); PHILANTHROPY (60%)

PERSON: JON KYL (79%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



90 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Lower Profile for Clinton, But Her Influence Rises

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
For Hillary Rodham Clinton, arriving here on Tuesday night from The Hague was a lesson in the difference between being a supremely important person and just a very important one.
 Mrs. Clinton's government plane was put into a holding pattern in the skies over Stansted Airport because air traffic had been backed up by Air Force One and other planes carrying world leaders to the economic summit meeting here. Once on the ground, her blue-and-white Boeing 757 taxied past President Obama's much larger 747, parking at a respectful distance.
 After jetting around the world for the last two months as the chief emissary of the United States -- conferring with presidents, announcing diplomatic overtures and getting rapturous receptions from Indonesia to Turkey -- Mrs. Clinton has abruptly become a foot soldier again, in a squad led by her boss. 
 The secretary of state is not even the president's most important lieutenant at the Group of 20 meeting. That distinction goes to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who is responsible for the economic issues under discussion here and will serve as Mr. Obama's right hand.
 Mrs. Clinton spent Wednesday accompanying Mr. Obama to meetings with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia and President Hu Jintao of China. Six weeks ago, Mr. Hu received Mrs. Clinton in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
 The administration's hierarchy was also on vivid display last week, when Mrs. Clinton flew home from Mexico late Thursday, so she could stand wordlessly behind Mr. Obama at the White House as he presented his Afghanistan policy on Friday. She then flew right to Texas to pick up an award from Planned Parenthood.
 In The Hague, where Mrs. Clinton attended a conference on Afghanistan, she even took a back seat -- in visibility, if not in substance -- to one of her subordinates, Richard C. Holbrooke, the administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
 Mr. Holbrooke managed to grab a few words during a lunch break with an Iranian diplomat, marking the first face-to-face encounter of the Obama administration with the Iranian regime. It was the headline of the day, and Mrs. Clinton found herself confirming Mr. Holbrooke's coup.
 Aides to Mrs. Clinton said she encouraged the meeting, largely because protocol prevented her doing it herself. Iran's representative, Mohammad Mehdi Akhondzadeh, is only a deputy foreign minister.
 Mr. Holbrooke attributed the rendezvous to geographic happenstance: he was seated at a table next to Mr. Akhondzadeh's and was able to table-hop for a two-minute chat about Persian architecture.
 ''For her to cross the room to greet him would have been odd,'' Mr. Holbrooke said Wednesday by telephone from Munich, where he was at a follow-up meeting on Afghanistan.
 Mrs. Clinton will be at Mr. Obama's side for the next few days, as he travels to a NATO summit meeting in France and Germany, and a European Union gathering in Prague. Aides say it is entirely possible she will not utter a word in public during any of Mr. Obama's appearances. She has sent her own plane home, kept only a handful of staff members and now views herself as the No. 1 member of the president's staff, the aides said.
 White House officials said Mrs. Clinton's collegial, pragmatic approach has enhanced her influence with Mr. Obama. On her trip to China, for example, she played down human rights concerns, saying she did not want them to interfere with priorities like climate change and the economy.
 That cost her with human-rights groups: Amnesty International said it was shocked by what it viewed as her backsliding. But it helped her with the White House. She laid the groundwork for Mr. Obama's meeting with Mr. Hu on Wednesday, these officials said.
 At home, Mrs. Clinton has no shortage of access to Mr. Obama. In addition to their regular weekly meeting on Thursday afternoons, aides say, she sees him several times a week at the White House.
 When Mrs. Clinton travels, there are always reminders that she is no ordinary secretary of state. On her flight here from The Hague, a large bouquet of Dutch tulips occupied a seat in the press section, which was empty because most members of the traveling press corps had opted to fly home.
 A gift of the Dutch foreign minister, they were Hillary Clinton tulips, a variety that was especially cultivated and named for her in 1994, when she was first lady. (Barbara Bush also has her own.)
 Mrs. Clinton asked that the flowers be brought to cheer up her hotel room in central London. Mr. Obama has less need of that: he and the first lady, Michelle Obama, are staying at Winfield House, the magnificent residence of the American ambassador to the Court of St. James's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (79%); HU JINTAO (72%); GORDON BROWN (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



91 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: To Beat a Dictator, Ignore Him

BYLINE: By B. R. MYERS. 
B. R. Myers is a researcher of North Korean ideology and propaganda at Dongseo University.

DATELINE: Busan, South Korea 

 BODY:
 NOT so long ago, when we wanted to learn why hostile leaders were hostile, we studied their ideologies. Nowadays, having learned that ideology is either dead or an arbitrary system of signs, we analyze leaders by ''putting ourselves in their shoes'' -- in other words, by assuming that everyone thinks the way we do.
 So it is that North Korea watchers who speak no Korean can confidently tell the rest of us what motivates Kim Jong-il. His country is poor, so he wants aid. We bombed his country flat in the Korean War, so he's afraid of us. That missile launching Pyongyang has said it will carry out next week? Mr. Kim wants to get President Obama's attention, so he can squeeze more money and security guarantees out of the next round of talks. 
 If, however, we assume the perspective expressed in the North Koreans' own official writings, things look very different. The first step is to regard not the devastation of the Korean War but the victories of the late 1960s as having defined the country's relationship with Washington. That was when the North detained the crew of the American spy ship Pueblo for almost a year and shot down an American reconnaissance plane, killing all 31 people aboard. Every North Korean schoolchild knows that the United States did a lot of saber-rattling but ended up doing nothing. 
 Over the past decade North Korea's string of nuclear provocations has reinforced the public conviction that Washington's bark is worse than its bite. Kim Jong-il has so far shown little indication that he does not share this conviction. 
 As for economic matters, the leadership in the North has always considered them secondary to domestic security. If the masses lived well, fine, but Mr. Kim's father, Kim Il-sung, once told the East German dictator Erich Honecker that they behaved better when they didn't. In the mid-1990s, when Kim Jong-il was forced to choose between opening his country to the outside world and letting perhaps a million citizens starve to death, he did just what his father would have done. 
 North Koreans now know that they are much poorer than their brethren in the South. They know this not just because the information cordon that once sealed off the country is in tatters, but also because the Kim Jong-il regime openly, even proudly, admits the gross economic disparity. The propaganda apparatus assures the masses that their heroic sacrifices are helping to nuclearize the North and keep America down. They are also told that the South Korean masses, for all their material comfort, are ashamed of being under the thumb of the Yankees and yearn to live under Kim Jong-il. 
 This message worked well enough when left-wing South Korean administrations were paying tributary visits to Pyongyang, and making sure that their news media referred to Kim Jong-il as ''the National Defense Council chairman.'' But since he became president of South Korea last year, the conservative Lee Myung-bak has attached conditions to aid for the North and sharply criticized its nuclear program. The message to the North Korean people is clear: their Dear Leader is not as feared and respected as they have been led to believe. This challenge has thrown the Kim regime into a crisis of which the outside world remains largely unaware. 
 Thus, with the announcement of the imminent missile launching, the dictator is not trying to get Mr. Obama's attention so much as his own people's. It is not merely a question of carrying out the threats of the anti-Lee rhetoric, rich in allusions to a pending comeuppance, that have filled the party newspapers since last fall. The now-familiar cycle of North Korean provocation, American warnings, North Korean follow-through and American calls for more peace talks -- calls that are always mocked as an abject surrender -- must turn every few years if the ''military first'' regime is to justify its existence and give heroic meaning to the people's hardship. 
 Were the North to exchange its nuclear program for an aid package and an American Embassy it would quite literally become a poor man's version of South Korea. Mr. Kim is realistic enough to know how long such a state would last. 
 Secretary of Defense Robert Gates has been wise to reject the idea of shooting down the Taepodong-2 missile. It is safer to allow Pyongyang another hollow victory than to humiliate it before the world. Punitive sanctions after the fact would most likely make no difference, because North Korea will return to negotiations in any case. But next time we go into talks, we must do so with an awareness of the domestic political realities that force the North Koreans to do the things they do. 
 This means demanding changes where they matter most, and can be immediately verified -- on the propaganda front -- before putting our faith in some grandiose timetable of disarmament. If Kim Jong-il will not cease referring to himself as a ''military first leader,'' or stressing that America and North Korea ''can never share the same sky,'' we can be certain, without letting yet another deadline elapse, that he is negotiating in bad faith. For far too long, American diplomats have treated Kim Jong-il's political culture as his business. It is ours as well. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: (DRAWING BY SEYMOUR CHWAST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); KOREAN WAR (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); STARVATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (66%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



92 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: China Takes Stage as World Economic Power, but Its Transformation Is Incomplete

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES and EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Let the rest of the world dither over whether this week's economic summit meeting in London will save the planet from economic collapse. 
 China arrives at the meeting with a sense of momentum, riding a wave of nationalism and boasting an economy that, more than any other, is surfing the trough of a crippling recession. While other major economies shrink this year, China's is expected by some economists to pass Japan's as the world's second largest, if it has not already. 
 The most talked-about new book here, ''China is Unhappy,'' combines hypernationalism with biting criticism of Western mismanagement and of China's reluctance to grasp its place in history. 
 China's normally faceless vice president, Xi Jinping, achieved cult status in late February after cameras caught him in an unguarded moment in Mexico, attacking ''foreigners who had eaten their fill and had nothing better to do, pointing their fingers at our affairs.'' 
 It has not dampened this spirit that China -- and its $2 trillion in exchange reserves -- are viewed around the world as the solution to a host of problems, whether by shoring up the capital base of the International Monetary Fund or by becoming a bigger engine of growth for Asian economies long dependent on the United States market.
 Yet even as Presidents Hu Jintao and Obama had their first meeting on Wednesday on the sidelines of the summit proceedings, the Chinese appeared torn between seizing their moment in the geopolitical spotlight and shying from it. 
 Government censors quickly deleted Mr. Xi's remarks from Chinese news reports last month. On Wednesday, the front page of China Daily, the English-language newspaper that telegraphs government positions to the outside world, warned that China ''is not as strong an economy as some people think.''
 ''Bailing out China is our most important contribution to bail out the world,'' Tang Min, an economist at the state-financed China Development Research Foundation, was quoted as saying. 
 Such is the quandary of a nation whose rise to power appears both inevitable and, in the view of many experts, still a bit premature. 
 ''China is a major global economy now. That is a fundamental reality,'' Chu Shulong, who directs the Institute of Strategic Studies at Tsinghua University in Beijing, said in an interview. ''What China says and does has an effect on international finance, international economics and other economies.''
 But just as real, Mr. Chu and others said, are the factors that hamstring China: widespread poverty, authoritarian rule, a culture shrouded by decades of isolation and poorly understood intentions. China's global ambitions are unlikely to be realized until it resolves those issues.
 Even then, China's economic fortunes remain deeply entangled with those of the United States, its biggest customer, rival, debtor and still -- by far -- the world's biggest economy. 
 So although Beijing may agitate for changes in the global financial structure, and relish some schadenfreude at Washington's expense, its interests lie very much in getting America back on its economic feet.
 That does not negate China's newly enhanced status. With most of the world in financial collapse, China's economy has suddenly become too big -- and too healthy, expected to grow by at least 6.5 percent this year -- for the rest of the world to ignore. 
 Evidence of China's ascension is everywhere. Three years ago, China did not have a single bank among the world's top 20, measured by market capitalization. Today the top three are Chinese. (In 2006, the United States had 7 of the top 20 banks, including the top 2; today it has 3, and the biggest, Morgan Stanley, is rated fifth.)
 China's government-owned enterprises are buying companies, technology and resources worldwide. This year they have spent $13 billion in Europe, and plan new investments in the United States. China has struck long-term oil contracts with Brazil and Russia, and is angling for a more than $20 billion stake in three Australian mining companies. 
 China holds $1 trillion in United States government debt, and that is but half the foreign reserves generated by its huge trade surplus and investment inflows. The rest of the West owes China money, too.
 Just as clearly, China harbors global ambitions. Military spending has grown for years at a double-digit clip, though as a share of gross domestic product, it is half of the United States' military spending. China is slowly building a blue-water navy, and in December it sent three ships to the waters off Somalia to patrol against pirates, in the first modern active deployment of its warships beyond its home waters.
 Foreign analysts uniformly say they are struck by China's new assertiveness in diplomatic and military affairs, from tart critiques of American fiscal policy to verbal sparring over control of the South China Sea.
 Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a Brookings Institution scholar who oversaw White House Asia policy from 1998 to 2000, said the Chinese traditionally deferred to Washington on major economic and strategic issues, assenting or differing only after Washington made its case. 
 But ''in meetings with the Chinese on several issues in the last two months, I've been quite surprised that Chinese are sitting there talking the way you would expect a major power to talk,'' he said. ''They are beginning to appreciate that when countries emerge from this current economic crisis, China is likely to be either the first to emerge or right after the U.S., and that China will be one of the very few countries at the end of this crisis to emerge without having high levels of government debt.''
 ''There is a palpable change taking place here,'' Mr. Lieberthal added, ''with a sense of greater confidence that China has now become an important place and needs to act that way.''
 But economic importance does not automatically translate into geopolitical heft. In China's case, most of the other components of true global power -- moral sway, military clout, cultural influence, to name a few -- are in the assembly stage, or missing altogether.
 Even China's unquestioned economic clout comes with an asterisk. While Chinese megacities boom and the country's coast has become the world's factory, 800 million of the nation's 1.3 billion citizens remain farmers, many mired in poverty. China remains a developing nation, still vying for first-world status.
 ''I would be careful calling China a superpower. It is not one,'' David Shambaugh, who directs the China Policy Program at George Washington University in Washington, wrote in an e-mail message. ''It has no global military reach, its soft power is limited, and its diplomatic reach, while now global, is still limited in areas such as the Middle East and Latin America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Timothy F. Geithner in London with President Hu Jintao, shaking Mrs. Clinton's hand, and other Chinese officials.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); SURFING (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CENSORSHIP (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HU JINTAO (77%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



93 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Experienced, Eager to Serve, Will Travel

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH POPE

 BODY:
WITHIN two days of President Obama's Inaugural Address, online applications to the Peace Corps spiked, as many Americans responded to the call to serve.
 The president's appeal resonated strongly with many people, including those 55 and older who are flocking to domestic and international volunteer programs. Some are motivated by a desire to do good, others by the weak job market and lagging business. Volunteering is a time-honored way to make contacts, learn skills and burnish a resume during a career transition.
In the last year, Peace Corps applications from those 50 and older have shot up 40 percent, helped along by a two-year marketing campaign. There are 428 volunteers in that age group now serving, according to the Peace Corps.
 Other international volunteer programs also report strong interest from midlife professionals. The Financial Services Volunteer Corps, a nonprofit organization based in New York that recruits financial experts for brief consulting projects in developing countries, has seen an increase in resumes from unemployed midcareer adults. Inquiries are also up at the International Senior Lawyers Project, which recruits volunteers for pro bono projects overseas. 
 ''Some volunteers say business may be down but they want to get involved in something positive in these dark times,'' said Andra Moss, the project's communications director. ''As bad as it is here, it's worse in the world's poorest countries.''
 The Peace Corps, which requires a 27-month commitment, has long welcomed older adults -- the most famous may be President Jimmy Carter's mother, Lillian, who served in India at age 68. The oldest volunteer currently serving, according to Laura Lartigue, the agency's acting press director, is John Guy LaPlante, 79, an English teacher in Ukraine. 
 The agency has found that host countries often appreciate older volunteers who come with a career's worth of experience and expertise. Ukraine, South Africa, Mexico, Jamaica and the Philippines draw a larger share of older volunteers, who are posted there because their business and technical skills are in demand and because more sophisticated medical care is available. 
 More than half the volunteers age 50 and older surveyed last year by the Peace Corps said they had not retired and planned to work after service, possibly in a new field.
 The application process can take six months or longer because time is needed to match an applicant's availability, skills, experience and medical limitations with the host country's needs and ability to provide medical care. About a third of the 12,000 to 13,000 applicants of all ages are accepted each year. 
 For older adults, the medical screening that all applicants must undergo can be prolonged. ''We have to look at the individual's health history, the conditions in the host country and the medical support available,'' Ms. Lartigue said. ''Your apartment in Ukraine may be on the fifth floor with no elevator -- can you climb those stairs day in and day out?''
 Leslie Michael, 59, of Columbia, S.C., first thought of joining the Peace Corps in college but instead embarked on a 31-year career in elementary education. Seven years ago, she learned that she had breast cancer, and the Peace Corps idea resurfaced. She waited five years after completing her cancer treatment and applied. 
 ''The application process was not difficult, but the medical screening was awful,'' she said by e-mail. ''At first, I was rejected because I have rheumatoid arthritis, but I appealed and was finally accepted.'' 
 After four weeks of training in Namibia, including site visits and job shadowing, she lived with a family for several weeks for cultural and language training and is now training preprimary teachers in Swakopmund. 
 The Peace Corps provides volunteers with comprehensive health coverage; round-trip transportation to the placement destination; a monthly stipend to cover rent, food, clothing and transportation; and an accrued allowance paid at the end of service. Volunteers also receive job- placement support and preferential treatment if they apply for federal jobs. 
 Older adults whose children have left home and who have completed their primary careers are ripe for what gerontologists call life review and new challenges, said Dr. Carl Eisdorfer, director of the Center on Aging at the University of Miami. ''You start asking, 'What have I done with my life?' For some people, life has been good, and there's a tendency towards altruism. What better way to do that than spend time in another culture where your skills have value?'' 
 And in some traditional cultures, gray hair and a few wrinkles can enhance respect. ''I'm taken more seriously and can say what I think without anyone getting angry with me,'' Ms. Michael said. 
 JUD DOLPHIN The kitchen and bathroom in Jud Dolphin's home in Portland, Me., are papered with sticky notes scribbled with Ukrainian phrases. When he was in his 20s, Mr. Dolphin dropped out of training for a Peace Corps placement in Brazil because he had trouble with the Portuguese language. Now 63, he said he did not want that to happen again. 
 After a long career as an executive director for a nonprofit organization, Mr. Dolphin left for Kiev over the weekend for language and cultural training before working with Ukrainian nonprofit organizations. 
 In January 2008, he applied through the Peace Corps Web site and was finally accepted in September. His history of skin cancer required that he submit medical reports and prevented a posting to sun-baked Morocco that he had wanted. And with his post-Peace Corps plans unclear, he has given away or sold most of his household goods and put his home on the market. 
 ''I feel like my life has come full circle, and I'm brimming over with a sense of legacy and accomplishment,'' Mr. Dolphin said. ''Now I have the opportunity to take all my experience to a country that needs it.'' 
 RANDALL AND YOLANDA HESS Seven years ago, Randall and Yolanda Hess, of Texarkana, Tex., took a family vacation in the Philippines. ''We wanted to show our kids the beauty of Yolanda's native country, but the beaches were littered with plastic bags and bottles,'' he said. ''It was embarrassing.'' 
 Mr. Hess, a former Defense Department chemist, and his wife were determined to find a way to fight pollution, and an Internet search for volunteer environmental projects led them to the Peace Corps. 
 An agency policy against sending volunteers to the countries where they were born ruled out the Philippines, and minor medical issues prevented a posting to Thailand they had longed for. After more than 18 months of waiting, the Hesses were posted to Jamaica, where Mr. Hess served as a health adviser; Mrs. Hess, a medical technologist, taught about sanitation and the environment at schools, churches and PTA meetings.
 ''It was very exciting to give a talk and see that what you said had an impact,'' said Mrs. Hess, who recalled lecturing 700 students sternly on the hundreds of discarded foam food containers in the schoolyard. On a surprise visit a few weeks later, the containers were gone, she said. 
 When their tour ended in July, they were ready to leave. Overcrowded minibuses, bucket baths and hand-washed laundry did not wear them down. It was the lack of privacy. Peace Corps volunteers can be seen as objects of curiosity, and the couple grew weary of neighborhood children staring into their dining room window. 
 The Hesses, in their 60s, hope to retire to the Philippines this year and replicate their Peace Corps experience in the schools there. 
 JACQUELINE KEHL Around her village in northeast Thailand, near the border with Laos, Jacqueline Kehl's nickname in Thai is Old Lotus. Her short gray hair draws attention because most older Thai women wear their hair long and dye it black.
 ''The fact that I'm still working and ride a bicycle gets lots of comments about how 'strong' I am,'' said Ms. Kehl, 60, of Lincoln, Neb. She works with grades four through nine, training educators to teach English as a foreign language. 
 After three decades as a special-education teacher, including two English-teaching stints arranged on her own in Istanbul and Almaty, Kazakhstan, she said she found she was getting restless. She said she wanted a situation that provided language and cultural training, adequate health care, the support of a large organization and a stronger sense of belonging.
 ''The concept of being alone is foreign here in Thailand,'' she said by e-mail. ''Thais want everyone to be happy.'' At communal meals the older women bring her extra food, making sure it isn't too spicy. Children cross the street to greet her, and teachers take her on trips or invite her to eat with them. 
 When she finishes her tour next year, she said she might extend her tenure in the village or reapply for Peace Corps service elsewhere. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'OLD LOTUS': In her Thai village Jacqueline Kehl, with dancers, draws attention for her short gray hair.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF JACQUELINE KEHL)
 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION: Yolanda Hess, a medical technologist, helping children clean a street in Jamaica, where she taught sanitation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDALL HESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); PRO BONO LAW (67%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (94%); FINANCIAL SERVICES VOLUNTEER CORPS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UKRAINE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



94 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Justice Dept. Moves to Void Stevens Case

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Justice Department moved on Wednesday to drop all charges against former Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, who lost his seat last year just days after being convicted on seven felony counts of ethics violations.
 The case was one of the most high profile and bitterly fought in a string of corruption investigations into current and former members of Congress. But Justice Department lawyers told a federal court Wednesday that they had discovered a new instance of prosecutorial misconduct, on top of earlier disclosures that had raised questions about the way the case was handled, and asked that the convictions be voided. 
 The attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., said he would not seek a new trial. 
 Mr. Stevens, 85, was the longest-serving Republican in the history of the Senate and Alaska's dominant political figure for more than four decades. His career mirrored the state's rough-and-tumble journey from a remote territory to an economic powerhouse as he used his influence to send billions of dollars in federal aid to Alaska.
 The collapse of the Stevens case was a profound embarrassment for the Justice Department, and it raised troubling issues about the integrity of the actions of prosecutors who wield enormous power over people they investigate. Mr. Stevens's case was handled by senior officials of the department's Public Integrity Section, which handles official corruption cases.
 Mr. Holder, himself a former prosecutor and judge, noted that the department's Office of Professional Responsibility was conducting a review of the prosecutors' conduct, raising the possibility that some of those who tried Mr. Stevens on ethics charges could themselves now face ethics charges. 
 The application to throw out the conviction of Mr. Stevens will almost certainly be ratified by the court at a hearing scheduled for next Tuesday. But it will do nothing to undo the loss of his Senate seat. Within days of the verdict, Mr. Stevens lost his re-election bid by fewer than 4,000 votes, less than 2 percent of votes cast.
 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said that without the guilty verdict, Mr. Stevens would have been re-elected, giving the 41 Republicans an additional vote and voice in the Senate.
 If the charges had been thrown out before the election, Mr. McConnell said in an interview, ''Ted Stevens would still be in the Senate.''
 ''It literally cost us a seat,'' he said.
 Mr. Stevens said in a statement: ''I always knew that there would be a day when the cloud that surrounded me would be removed. That day has finally come. It is unfortunate that an election was affected by proceedings now recognized as unfair.''
 Mr. Stevens was charged in July with lying on Senate disclosure forms by concealing an estimated $250,000 worth of goods and services he received, mostly to renovate a chalet he owned in Alaska. Prosecutors said he had received the bulk of the goods and services from Bill Allen, a longtime friend who had made a fortune by providing services to Alaska's booming oil industry. 
 But in their filing on Wednesday, government lawyers said they had recently learned that trial prosecutors had concealed from Mr. Stevens's defense lawyers the notes from a 2008 interview with Mr. Allen that raised significant doubts about the charges. Among other things, Mr. Allen asserted in the interview that the work on the Stevens home was worth only about $80,000, they said. 
 Mr. Stevens's lawyers argued during the trial that the senator had been unaware of the help he received from Mr. Allen and had not intentionally concealed anything. Mr. Allen, the prosecution's chief witness, provided forceful testimony intended to demonstrate that Mr. Stevens had been fully aware of what he received and had even signaled that he wanted it concealed.
 Mr. Holder said in a statement that ''I have concluded that certain information should have been provided to the defense for use at trial.'' 
 Mr. Stevens's lawyers, Brendan Sullivan and Robert Cary, welcomed the decision in a statement and praised Mr. Holder as ''a pillar of integrity.'' They said the case was a warning to everyone that ''any citizen can be convicted if prosecutors are hellbent on ignoring the Constitution.'' 
 Senator Mark Begich, the Democrat who defeated Mr. Stevens in November, issued a statement calling the Justice Department's decision ''reasonable.''
 Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Utah Republican and longtime friend of Mr. Stevens, told reporters: ''Here's a guy who gave better than 60 years' service to our country and was screwed. Screwed by our own Justice Department.'' 
 Mr. Hatch praised Mr. Holder for ''standing up and fixing this foul situation.''
 Mr. Stevens had faced an almost-certain prison term on the conviction. But Judge Emmet G. Sullivan had delayed imposing a sentence because he was considering motions by Mr. Stevens's lawyers to throw out the conviction based on previous disclosures of prosecutorial misconduct. The judge repeatedly scolded prosecutors during the trial over a series of incidents in which they concealed information from defense lawyers.
 Judge Sullivan recently ordered that some of the government lawyers involved be held in contempt of court, including the two top officials of the Public Integrity Section.
 Judge Sullivan displayed his annoyance with the prosecutors' conduct for the first time almost four weeks before Mr. Stevens was convicted. On Oct. 3, the judge almost declared a mistrial after discovering that prosecutors had not told the defense team about a different interview with Mr. Allen by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 ''How does the court have confidence that the Public Integrity Section has public integrity?'' Judge Sullivan asked that day.
 The chief prosecutor, Brenda Morris, apologized for her team's mistakes. But she also called the errors careless, not purposeful.
 But last month, an F.B.I. agent who had worked on the investigation disputed that characterization of events, accusing prosecutors and a fellow agent of willfully concealing evidence from Mr. Stevens's lawyers. 
 The agent, Chad Joy, wrote in the complaint that he had ''witnessed or learned of serious violations of policy, rules and procedures as well as possible criminal violations.''
 Judge Sullivan ruled that Ms. Morris and two other prosecutors -- William Welch and Patty Stemler -- were in contempt of court after the Justice Department failed to produce documents the judge had requested to assess Mr. Joy's complaint. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ted Stevens, who lost his seat in the Senate last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
 Ted Stevens's lawyers, Robert Cary, left, and Brendan Sullivan, on Wednesday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ETHICS (89%); VERDICTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FELONIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGAL ETHICS (77%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (86%)

PERSON: TED STEVENS (93%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



95 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Health Critic Brings a Past And a Wallet

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Richard L. Scott is unusual in these tough economic times: a rich, conservative investor willing to spend freely on a political cause.
 Mr. Scott is starring in his own rotation of advertisements against the broad outlines of President Obama's health care plans. (''Imagine waking up one day and all your medical decisions are made by a central, national board,'' he warns in a radio spot.) He has dispatched camera crews to other countries to document the perils of socialized medicine.
 He visited with lawmakers on Capitol Hill this week, and his new group, Conservatives for Patients' Rights, has hired a leading conservative public relations firm, CRC, well known for its work with Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, the group that attacked Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, during his presidential campaign.
 Mr. Scott's emergence this spring as the most visible conservative opponent to Mr. Obama's not-fully-defined health care effort has former friends and foes alike doing double takes, given Mr. Scott's history. 
 Once lauded for building Columbia/HCA into the largest health care company in the world, Mr. Scott was ousted by his own board of directors in 1997 amid the nation's biggest health care fraud scandal. The company's guilty plea and payment of $1.7 billion to settle charges including the overbilling of state and federal health programs was taken as a repudiation of Mr. Scott's relentless bottom-line approach.
 ''He hopes people don't Google his name,'' said John E. Hartwig, a former deputy inspector general at the Department of Health and Human Services, one of various state and federal agencies that investigated Columbia/HCA when Mr. Scott was its chief executive.
 Liberal groups planning to defend the administration's health care plan, whatever form it takes, are seizing on Mr. Scott's background through Web videos, fact sheets, blog postings and unflattering additions to his Wikipedia entry, which until recently did not mention his ouster from Columbia. 
 ''He's a great symbol from our point of view,'' said Richard J. Kirsch, the national campaign manager for Health Care for America Now. ''We cannot have a better first person to attack health care reform than someone who ran a company that ripped off the government of hundreds of millions of dollars.''
 Conservative health care activists, while glad to have a potential ally willing to spend $5 million out of his own pocket, are not fully embracing Mr. Scott, noting that he is entering a changed landscape in which some Republicans and industry groups that opposed President Bill Clinton's health care proposals now view some form of change as necessary and inevitable.
 ''At the end of the day, they may come up with something we like,'' said John C. Goodman, a leading conservative health care policy expert. ''We shouldn't just assume that this is something horrible -- if this is something horrible, we will be against it.'' 
 ''There is no Obama plan that's been made public yet, so what's the point of running ads?'' Mr. Goodman added. ''I don't see that you gain anything except attention for Rick Scott.''
 Some former allies are more hostile toward Mr. Scott, painting him as counterproductive to their efforts for compromise.
 ''I just don't understand why he would be a messenger people would listen to,'' said Charles N. Kahn III, who was a senior executive with the insurance industry group that ran the ''Harry & Louise'' advertisements credited with helping to kill the Clinton plan 15 years ago but who is working for a deal now. ''I don't think people are waiting to hear from him.''
 Mr. Kahn, a Republican, is now the head of the Federation of American Hospitals, a private-hospitals group.
 Mr. Scott is showing more support from some Republicans in Congress, though. Representative Michael C. Burgess, Republican of Texas and a member of the House health subcommittee, said in an interview that he had invited Mr. Scott to meet with him on Tuesday because he liked what Mr. Scott had been saying.
 Mr. Scott declined several interview requests. His public relations firm, after initially offering to make him available for a discussion, later declined to answer questions about him, citing an exclusive arrangement with another publication.
 In recent years, Mr. Scott, 56, has settled into a comfortable life in Naples, Fla., where he has built an investment portfolio that includes a chain of urgent-care clinics, some located in Wal-Mart stores, which Mr. Scott promotes as inexpensive alternatives to emergency rooms, especially for the uninsured. 
 Mr. Scott has said his sole policy interest is to see to it that whatever overhaul Mr. Obama and Congress consider does not move the country toward a socialized system and away from what he calls his four pillars of reform: ''choice, competition, accountability and personal responsibility.''
 ''After spending over two decades in the health care provider industry, I've seen these principles work firsthand,'' Mr. Scott said in a recent statement in which he also criticized Mr. Obama for seeking a $634 billion reserve fund for unspecified changes to the health care system.
 Mr. Scott's supporters say that he has been unfairly attacked over the years for challenging the longstanding orthodoxy of the nonprofit health care establishment.
 ''He has a much more businesslike approach to health care than anybody I've ever seen, and it is much more bottom-line-driven,'' said Joshua Nemzoff, a hospital consultant based in New Hope, Pa., who has represented nonprofit hospitals in several deals with Mr. Scott. ''He's aggressive, and sometimes that rubs people the wrong way.''
 Mr. Scott, a former Navy radar operator, built what would become Columbia/HCA from two hospitals in Texas into the largest health care chain in the world over just a few years. He seemed to relish publicly lambasting the nonprofit hospitals against which he competed and which he described as ''non-taxpaying hospitals'' impervious to real-world business concerns. 
 His approach earned him plenty of enmity, but also high praise. In 1996, Time magazine named him one of the ''25 most influential Americans'' for ''transforming how American hospitals do business,'' with an operation that ''consolidates operations and imposes cost controls.''
 Though Mr. Scott was not directly implicated in the fraud scandal -- with whistle-blower suits filed against some hospitals before his acquisition of them -- critics said his drive for profits had created incentive for fraud. 
 ''The practices did pre-exist Rick Scott,' said Stephen Meagher, a lawyer who represented some of the ex-employees whose complaints prompted the initial investigation. ''They were aggravated by the pressure he put on HCA employees.''
 In an interview this week with The Washington Independent, Mr. Scott said of the charges against his former company, ''If you go back and look at the hospital industry, and the whole health care industry since the mid-1990s, it was constantly going through investigations.'' He added, ''Great institutions, like ours, paid fines.''
 One defender of Mr. Scott, Mr. Burgess, the Texas lawmaker and a former HCA doctor, said of the investigation, ''A lot of us just looked at it as somebody in Washington playing politics.''
 Others say the scandal took place so long ago they can hardly remember it. ''I remembered reading a newspaper article about it all,'' said Merrill Matthews Jr., director of the Council for Affordable Health Insurance, a group that formedto fight the Clinton proposals and expects to fight Mr. Obama's. Mr. Matthews said he would not shun Mr. Scott. ''He's bringing a lot of money to the table,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard L. Scott, who built (and was ousted by) the world's largest health care company, is taking on President Obama. (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); HISTORY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RADIO ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); GUILTY PLEAS (65%); SCANDALS (65%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%); SERVICE ONE (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



96 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Obama Faces Calls for Rules On Finances

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
In his first full day in Europe, President Obama conceded Wednesday that the United States had ''some accounting to do'' for failures that led to the world's financial crisis, even as he tried to brush past heavy pressure from Germany and France to accept global financial regulations that could reach well inside American borders. 
 Speaking on the eve of a summit meeting here to address the financial crisis, Mr. Obama acknowledged that regulatory failures in the United States had a role in the meltdown, but he urged world leaders to focus on solutions rather than on placing blame. He also cautioned that the United States was unlikely to return to its role as a ''voracious consumer market,'' and he urged other nations to do more to revive growth in their home markets.
 Despite calls for unity from Mr. Obama and the British prime minister, Gordon Brown, the host of the Group of 20 meeting that will formally begin Thursday, a rift intensified over Anglo-American calls for greater fiscal stimulus spending and French and German demands for more intrusive global regulation of financial institutions. 
 While President Nicolas Sarkozy of France did not repeat an earlier threat to walk out of the conference -- ''I just got here,'' he joked -- he made it clear he would reject an agreement that puts off stringent new regulations on banks, tax havens, and hedge funds. 
 ''The decisions need to be taken now, today and tomorrow,'' he said. ''This has nothing to do with ego. This has nothing to do with temper tantrums. When it comes to historic moments, you can't circumvent them.'' 
 Mr. Sarkozy added that tougher regulation -- he has called for a ''global regulator'' that would be able to reach inside the borders of the United States and other large nations to deal with international financial firms -- is ''nonnegotiable.'' 
 ''The compromise has to come from all countries around the world,'' he said. Saying he trusted Mr. Obama, Mr. Sarkozy said he did not want to point fingers about the crisis. But then, in a verbal jab he has used before, he added, ''The crisis didn't actually spontaneously erupt in Europe.''
 Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany rejected Mr. Obama's plea for other nations to follow America's lead and pledge greater fiscal spending to stimulate their economies. She said more spending was not worth debating. ''That is not a bargaining chip,'' she said, adding, by contrast, ''Regulation is something that is in everyone's interest.''
 By the time Mr. Obama ended his evening at Buckingham Palace and a working dinner for the leaders assembling here -- representing a group as diverse as the established European powers and Japan to Indonesia, India, Saudi Arabia and the Netherlands -- it appeared likely that countries would divide into two or three camps. 
 The United States, Britain and Japan will push for more immediate stimulus and ''systemic risk'' regulators that mostly operate within national borders; Germany and France will push the opposite position, probably with some support from the Czech Republic. 
 That leaves China and Russia, among others, to exploit the division to play a significant role, though if tradition holds the major differences are likely to be smoothed out in wording in a final communique that each country interprets differently.
 Mr. Obama and Mr. Brown used a joint news conference earlier in the day to emphasize that differences with France and Germany were ''vastly overstated.'' 
 Mr. Brown argued that the world had learned the hard lessons of a similar summit meeting here in 1933, which ended in failure. That outcome will not be repeated, Mr. Brown argued. 
 Mr. Obama also met for the first time with President Hu Jintao of China, the nation that is essentially being asked to bankroll much of the upward of $2 trillion in deficits the United States will run up this year to finance its recovery package, bailouts for Wall Street and Detroit, and two wars.
 But in a meeting that American officials described as ''businesslike'' Mr. Hu apparently said nothing about previous Chinese cautions that the country would have to be convinced that the United States had a long-term plan to bring down its deficits before it invested more heavily in American securities.
 In essence, the United States is pressing Europe and other nations to spend more now -- when a coordinated stimulus could do the most good. But over the long term, Mr. Obama appeared to be preparing the world for a reshaped global economy in which the United States no longer was the ultimate export market for the world's established and emerging powers. 
 Speaking alongside Mr. Brown after the two men met, Mr. Obama warned against returning the United States to the habits of the past decade, and the twin trade and budget deficits they created. 
 ''The United States will do its share,'' he said, ''but I think that one of the things that Gordon and I spoke about is the fact that in some ways the world has become accustomed to the United States being a voracious consumer market and the engine that drives a lot of economic growth worldwide. And I think that in the wake of this crisis, even as we're doing stimulus, we have to take into account our own deficits.''
 He said he and fellow leaders had an ''enormous consensus'' on the need to take bold steps to revive growth, and urged them to focus on what they can achieve at home. ''If there is going to be renewed growth it can't just be the United States as the engine, everybody is going to have to pick up the pace,'' he said.
 But Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Sarkozy laid out a different argument: that the United States had only now begun to understand the cost of poorly regulated free-market capitalism, and must now bow to the European model. ''The foundation for this new financial architecture must be laid now,'' Mrs. Merkel said. ''That is why we seem to be so tough.''
 The German chancellor, who is scheduled to met Mr. Obama one-on-one this weekend, rejected attempts to link the American and British demands for fiscal stimulus programs to the French and German agenda on regulations. Although Germany did carry out a reasonably large stimulus package this year, it has not agreed to one for 2010.
 Mr. Sarkozy said France had made a gesture to the United States by rejoining the command structure of the NATO alliance, and he implied that the United States needed to make a similar gesture in the regulatory arena.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama and his wife, Michelle, met Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip in London on Wednesday. (POOL PHOTO BY JOHN STILLWELL) (pg.A1)
 President Obama and his wife, Michelle, were greeted at 10 Downing Street in London on Wednesday by the British prime minister, Gordon Brown, and his wife, Sarah. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); BRITISH MONARCHS (73%); BANKING LAW (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MICHELLE OBAMA (92%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); GORDON BROWN (67%); ANGELA MERKEL (57%); PRINCE PHILIP (52%); ELIZABETH II (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



97 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Calling for Financial Advice . . . and Reassurance

BYLINE: By CHARLES DELAFUENTE

DATELINE: SECAUCUS, N.J. 

 BODY:
MILLIONS of people are fearful about their financial futures and their prospects for retirement. And some of them have places to call for advice, financial planning hot lines provided by their employers or groups they belong to.
Generally, the advice they've been getting is, ''Let's take a deep breath,'' said Lynn Pettus Finkelstein, national director of financial services for Ernst & Young, which provides a call-in center for 40 companies and organizations.
 The center, called the EY Financial Planner Line, receives about 5,000 calls a week, some new, some follow-ups, from among the two million people eligible to use it, according to the company. The number of calls spiked in early October, as the financial crisis accelerated.
 On a recent morning, one caller wanted to discuss asset allocation and her stock-laden $150,000 401(k) account. She had already shifted some money from mutual funds ''where the losses were higher than the average'' to other funds, she told Aaron Cherry, one of 80 certified financial planners in Ernst & Young's office here, within sight of the Manhattan skyline. 
 Mr. Cherry feared that the caller, in her late 30s, might have panicked and sold at a loss to move her money into fixed-income funds. To his relief, he learned that she had moved the money to other stock funds. Mr. Cherry then walked her through a series of questions to determine her tolerance for risk.
 ''Are you comfortable with the ups and downs of the stock market?'' he asked. 
 ''Yes,'' she said, adding, ''otherwise I'd take all the money out.'' (She, several other callers and Ernst & Young agreed to let a reporter listen in on the calls, on the condition that they and their employers not be identified.)
 Half of this caller's 401(k) assets were in the stock of her employer, a consumer goods' manufacturer, and she expressed reluctance to sell any of it -- even though planners advise against such reliance on one company. 
 ''Let's carve that out'' and consider moving other assets to get to a desirable mix, Mr. Cherry suggested. She agreed. In the end, Mr. Cherry suggested a portfolio with fixed-interest investments as well as stocks -- one of the 12 mixes of stocks and fixed-income investments that Ernst & Young has compiled. The planners do not recommend specific stocks or mutual funds, and they do not sell anything. 
 What Mr. Cherry had provided was not just advice but reassurance, said Robert Porter, national director of the Ernst & Young planner line, who supervises the planners in Secaucus and another 20 in San Diego. Ernst & Young declined to say what it charges companies for the service.
 Most clients are not calling in response to one day's ups or downs in the stock market. Rather, they are seeking broader advice, broader perspective and hand-holding, Mr. Porter said. 
 Another major provider of telephone financial-planning advice is Ayco, in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. (for which this reporter worked briefly a decade ago). Tom MacLaughlin, vice president of the Ayco AnswerLine, said calls had spiked in the last quarter of 2008. ''There was a marked increase in the number of calls focused on asset allocation and 401(k)'s,'' he said. 
 Mr. MacLaughlin said some clients last fall were very concerned about market gyrations, ''and often uncertainty can lead to fear, but most of our clients were not panicked.'' 
 Some callers needed ''a guiding hand, and others wanted reassurance,'' he added, and Ayco ''tried to focus people on diversification and asset allocation and line up the asset allocation with the tolerance for risk.''
 About 3.6 million other workers are eligible for planning advice without a fee from TIAA-CREF, the financial-services company for employees of colleges and other nonprofit organizations. 
 James Nichols, TIAA's vice president of advice strategy, said calls to that line had leapt since October.
 ''The initial call back in October and November was much more of a panic, and more recently, I'd say a month ago, a couple of months ago, we've seen a turn toward almost paralysis,'' he said, adding, ''People initially wanted to take some rash action to prevent further loss.'' He said his staff worked with callers ''to make sure they understand the implications of their choices.'' 
 The broad advice was to ''make sure you have some sort of plan to plot your actions against'' before taking drastic steps, he said.
 The company's telephone services deal largely with people earning less than $200,000 a year.
 Patricia Pearsall-Ramey, an Ernst & Young planner, was on the phone with a single man about to retire from a major petrochemical company who needed to decide whether to take a lump-sum payment from his pension plan and invest it on his own or opt for guaranteed monthly pension payments for life.
 The man, a Floridian in his late 50s, had been thinking of taking the lump sum and using it to buy an annuity, which would also give him a lifetime income stream. Ms. Pearsall-Ramey gave him a homework assignment: find out about the annuity's inflation protection, if any, and its various fees and charges.
 Another Ernst & Young planner, Andrew M. Clarke, was talking with a first-time caller, a state employee who was 61 and planned to work a few more years. She wanted to discuss whether to choose a defined-contribution pension -- in which the employee can direct how the money is invested and bear the risks -- or a defined-benefit one, in which the employee is guaranteed a specified payment. 
 The caller said she thought she had only a week to make the decision. But Mr. Clarke and other planners had studied the state pension program, and, in a soothing voice, he advised her that she had a year to decide.
 And so it went. Vince E. Villanueva, a planner at Ernst & Young, had a call from a man in his 50s planning to retire in a few years; he sought assurance that he was ''O.K.'' 
 ''For the most part, his planning was intact,'' Mr. Villanueva said, largely because he had made some asset-allocation changes in recent years that were helping him ride out the bear market.
 Advice is caller-specific. ''The conversation starts first with what's appropriate for that individual,'' said Mr. Nichols of TIAA-CREF. After assessing a caller's financial situation and goals, a planner can say ''here are some options'' to rebalance a portfolio, he said.
 Ernst & Young planners follow ''generally accepted planning principles'' but customize them -- and also try to answer unasked questions, Ms. Finkelstein said.
 If, for instance, she said, the caller asks, can I take a 401(k) loan? The answer may be yes, depending on plan rules, but the bigger question is whether there are better alternatives. 
 Or, as Ms. Finkelstein put it, ''It's incumbent upon us as planners to go through the caller's thought process.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MONEY TALKS: Ernst & Young's Financial Planner Line in Secaucus, N.J., a call-in center, gets about 5,000 inquiries every week from employees from 40 companies and organizations.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (84%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



98 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Finding Hope Online, and Hoping a Job Follows

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- Nearly a year after he was laid off from his job as a window installer, Raymond Vaughn is still out of work, still scanning job listings on the computer and still sending resumes into a seemingly indifferent void.
But Mr. Vaughn now has another activity, one aimed at breaking free of his chronically meager financial straits: He is studying for a career in medical billing through an online course he found on the Internet.
For several hours each morning, Mr. Vaughn, 43, sits at a desk in the modest rented house he shares with his fiancee, memorizing medical procedures and absorbing detailed drawings of the human anatomy. ''Medical terminology is kicking my butt,'' he says.
He takes quizzes online, making progress toward the diploma that will, the school promises, set him up to work from home, processing bills for insurance companies while earning as much as $50,000 a year. ''That sounded all right to me,'' he says. 
He passes the evening hours on a sagging couch, a pack of Newport cigarettes on the coffee table, and the television remote in hand, surveying a world mired in distress. He flips between action movies and news channels, absorbing a discomfiting tableau of cinematic violence and real-life economic deterioration -- job cuts, holdups at a local automated teller machine, taxpayer-financed bonuses for disgraced Wall Street chieftains.
He takes note of the reports that South Carolina has the second-highest unemployment rate in the nation -- 11 percent in February, behind only Michigan. He seethes as he hears that his state's Republican governor, Mark Sanford, is preparing to reject $700 million in federal aid aimed at generating new jobs, arguing that spending more now will simply add to public debt in the years ahead.
''How can somebody who's never been broke say with any confidence what someone needs who's struggling?'' Mr. Vaughn asks disgustedly.
Everywhere, he hears solemn talk of recession, as if the same reality that has defined most of his life has finally caught up with the rest of the nation.
''For me, it's always been a recession,'' Mr. Vaughn says. ''I've always struggled to find work and pay my bills. And now we're hearing recession this, recession that, and I'm like, yeah, now that it's hitting the rich people, it's officially a recession. They've got to give up eating in those fancy restaurants with their $100 chicken dinners, and now they're stuck eating Church's with me.''
He still draws a $221-a-week unemployment check, and he still depends on the generosity of his fiancee, whose wages from her job as a secretary at a hospital pay the bills.
''She could cover this place on her own,'' Mr. Vaughn says. ''She could kick my butt out and she'd be fine. It bothers me. That'd be hard for any man.''
And yet, more than a year into a punishing economic downturn, and more than four decades into a life whose only consistent thread has been struggle itself, Mr. Vaughn is keenly aware that pride is a commodity he cannot afford.
Nationally, unemployment is at its highest rate in more than a quarter century, a picture that will probably worsen on Friday, when the government releases its snapshot of the labor market for March.
Most economists expect the report will show that more than 650,000 jobs disappeared from the economy last month, bringing total job losses beyond five million since the recession began in December 2007.
Prospects have been especially bleak for African-American men like Mr. Vaughn, who lacks a college degree, and has long earned his living with his hands. Born and raised in Jamaica in Queens, New York, Mr. Vaughn has spent the last 17 years in South Carolina, moving here to escape the often-violent streets of his youth.
Nationally, less than 60 percent of black men 20 years and older were employed in February, the lowest share since the government began tracking such data in 1972, and down from 66 percent a year earlier.
Amiable and prone to wisecracks, Mr. Vaughn joined the recession's victims last May when he was laid off from his job installing and repairing windows and doors, where he had earned $11.50 an hour and health insurance.
In December, he lined up with hundreds of other people at the state fairgrounds, applying for the few listings at a job fair. The most promising possibility was for a position as a technician at an air-conditioning company. It paid $3 an hour less than his last job. He never got that job, and soon the company resorted to layoffs. He says he has applied for more than 50 jobs since, including posts as a welder, an auto mechanic and a painter.
''Anything,'' he says. ''I've been applying for anything.''
Back in February, he was granted an interview at a factory that makes industrial adhesives, yet his very need for a job emerged as an impediment to getting one: The company ran a credit check, discovered his checkered history, and turned him down, he says.
''They told me things had looked good until the credit check,'' he says.
Mr. Vaughn's credit history stands as a crude composite of the national experience. It is sprinkled with deals that went awry, transactions not sufficiently understood, assurances accepted without critical scrutiny and purchases made in anticipation of income that never arrived.
Seven years ago, he bought a mobile home, agreeing to a mortgage that he says was supposed to be $653 a month for the home and the land. When a bill came for an extra $200 a month, he walked away, convinced he had been cheated. Two years ago, he ran up $200 worth of charges on a Visa card that he failed to pay. ''It was basically gas and what-not,'' he says.
In January, an e-mail message landed in his in-box from something called the U.S. Career Institute, based in Colorado, which offered to train him online for ''an exciting, professional career'' in medical billing. He bought in, enrolling for $69 a month, attracted by the thought of a middle-class paycheck.
Does he know anyone who has pulled this off? ''No, but I called and checked it out,'' he says. ''Basically, they said their school is accredited. Their school has weight. It's not like the school is frowned upon.''
He discussed it with his fiancee, and she supported the idea, figuring that health care is a growing field.
He says this in the tone of voice of a man whose aspirations have been dashed more than once, now trying to convince himself of the truth of something dubious; a man who has sent out so many job applications and received so few replies, happy to have finally found mail in his in-box painting a promising future that is supposedly waiting for someone just like him.
Correction: April 8, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about a laid-off South Carolinian who is hoping that an online medical billing course will lead to a new career misstated his age in some editions. He is 43, not 46. The error was repeated in a picture caption in some editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Raymond Vaughn, 43, is studying online for a career in medical billing.(pg. B1)
 Raymond Vaughn is an unemployed window installer in Columbia, S.C. ''For me, it's always been a recession,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENT McDONALD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); DISTANCE LEARNING (76%); HOSPITALS (71%); INSURANCE (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); GOVERNORS (63%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (50%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011



99 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 353 words

 BODY:
BANK RULE EASED Banks were given more discretion in reporting the value of mortgage securities, which critics say could further damage banks' credibility. Edward Yingling, left, of the American Bankers Association, favored the change. 
A SEARCH FOR WORK South Carolina has the nation's second-highest jobless rate, which one laid-off man there knows well. [B1.]
PROPOSAL ON TANKER DEAL The Pentagon is about to reopen competition on a $35 billion order for tankers that can refuel warplanes in midair, and some are suggesting that the contract be split between Boeing and a Northrop Grumman-EADS venture. [B1.]
REAL ESTATE BETS IN CHINA In the last four years, foreign investors pumped tens of billions of dollars into the Chinese property market using complicated means. But now the real estate market has soured, and those bets seem to have been hasty. [B1.]
G.M. BANKRUPTCY CONSIDERED General Motors said in a report that it was prepared to file for bankruptcy protection if it could not restructure out of court. It was the first time that G.M. had officially disclosed to the president's auto task force that it was willing to consider that action. [B4.]
AUTO PLANTS SHUT As a result of a parts shortage, two assembly plants in Canada halted production. The shortage was caused by a dispute between Chrysler Canada and a parts supplier. [B4.]
FRAUD SUSPECT Julius Meinl V, a banker and a prominent member of an Austrian family known for its food business, was jailed on suspicion of fraud at a company linked to his family. [B5.]
HEALTHY MADE OVER ConAgra Foods is trying to reintroduce its Healthy Choice line of frozen meals and other foods with a new campaign and redesigned packaging. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B9.]
UNREST IN FRANCE Taking the boss hostage is not a new strategy from French workers, but it is becoming more common. Executives were held hostage in four separate instances last month, and analysts expect to see more of that tactic. [B5.]
UPSWING IN MARKETS The markets rallied in Asia, and the momentum carried through Europe and into the United States, where the Dow briefly traded above 8,000. [B8.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); FROZEN FOODS (64%); HOSTAGE TAKING (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (57%); PLANT CLOSINGS (57%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (57%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (57%); BOEING CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (57%); EAD (MCE) (57%); NOC (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%); CAG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (54%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (54%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (54%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); CANADA (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (76%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011



100 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2355 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: APRIL 3, 2009

 BODY:
International
NATO MEETING HIGHLIGHTS
Strains of War in Afghanistan
NATO leaders will meet in Strasbourg, France, to celebrate the 60th anniversary of an alliance that deterred the Soviet Union, opened the door to emerging democracies, battled ethnic cleansing and now welcomes the return of France as a full member. But they also must face the reality that the military mission in Afghanistan is failing in a way that risks fracturing the alliance. PAGE A6
RUSSIA KEEPS TROOPS IN GEORGIA
Nearly eight months after the war between Russia and Georgia, Russian troops continue to hold Georgian territory that the Kremlin agreed to vacate as part of a formal cease-fire, leaving a basic condition of that agreement unfulfilled. PAGE A6 
THAI GOVERNMENT THREATENED
Thailand's fragile government is facing a growing challenge by protesters loyal to its chief rival, the ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. Above, supporters of the former premier gather outside the Finance Ministry in Bangkok. The turmoil threatens to return the country to the political paralysis that gripped it last year and contributed to an economic crisis. PAGE A6
CANDIDATE SPARKS UPROAR IN INDIA
Feroze Varun Gandhi, 29, a great-grandson of India's founding prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, is now a candidate of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, making a run for the national Parliament from the small northern town of Pilibhit. But since Saturday he has been detained on charges of inciting Hindu-Muslim strife, which could keep him jailed at least through the elections that begin in two weeks. PAGE A8
Juarez Cartel Leader Arrested A8
Heart Muscles Renew Over Time A12
NORTH KOREA'S DIPLOMATIC GAME
As North Korea prepares to launch what it calls a rocket carrying a communications satellite but Washington calls an intercontinental ballistic missile, the world is watching. And watching, for now, seems about all it can do. A Memo. PAGE A13
FUNDS UNVEILED TO BOLSTER PAKISTAN
In an effort to aid Pakistan's fight against Al Qaeda and the Taliban, the Pentagon unveiled a plan to spend about $3 billion over the next five years to train and equip Pakistan's military. The money would include up to $500 million in an annual emergency war budget that the Obama administration will submit to Congress. PAGE A14
NEW ISRAELI MINISTER QUESTIONED
Avigdor Lieberman, the new foreign minister of Israel, was questioned by the national fraud squad for more than seven hours as part of a longstanding investigation into suspicions of bribery, money laundering and breach of trust. PAGE A14
National
IRE IN FORECLOSURE CRISIS
Turns to a Home Builder
KB Home, a major home builder that helped fuel the country's building boom, is now under attack for what some say was its role in the bust. At the company's annual shareholder meeting, several former homeowners said the company pushed them into high-risk, high-interest loans for homes they could not afford and eventually lost to foreclosure. PAGE A16
Boston Mayor Resists Sailing Event A17
CALLS FOR NEW ALASKAN SENATE VOTE
Outrage in Alaska is building over the Justice Department's apparent mishandling of its prosecution of Ted Stevens, the state's former senator, prompting calls for a new election to give Mr. Stevens, who was just cleared of all charges, a chance to get his old seat back. PAGE A18
JURY RULES IN FAVOR OF PROFESSOR
A jury in Denver ruled that the University of Colorado wrongfully terminated Ward L. Churchill, a former professor who drew national attention for an essay in which he called some victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks ''little Eichmanns.'' PAGE A19
NURSE CHARGED WITH 5 DEATHS
A nurse has been charged with murdering five patients at a clinic in Lufkin, Tex., by injecting bleach into their veins while they were undergoing kidney dialysis, local authorities said. The arrest of the nurse, Kimberly Saenz, 35, appeared to resolve the mystery surrounding a spike in deaths and sudden illnesses at the DaVita Dialysis clinic a year ago. PAGE A19
Obama Picks Census Bureau Head A19
PARTY LINE ON BUDGETS IN CONGRESS
The House approved a $3.6 trillion federal budget with no Republican support, and the Senate was moving toward passing a similar $3.5 trillion budget solely on the strength of Democratic votes. Both are signs of deep partisan tensions likely to color Congressional efforts to enact the major policy initiatives sought by President Obama. PAGE A20
Fuzzy Picture of Taxes and Spending A20
Vote on Health Dept. Pick Is Delayed A20
New York
EARLY, AGGRESSIVE BID BY MAYOR FOR BLACK SUPPORT IN RE-ELECTION
Seven months before the mayoral election, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's campaign is mounting an all-out push to win over New York City's black elected leaders, clergy members and voters, seeking to land an early blow against his chief rival, William C. Thompson Jr. PAGE A22
Obituaries
MARTIN J. KLEIN, 84
A historian of modern physics, Mr. Klein was the editor of a vast collection of papers that documented the years in which Albert Einstein completed his revolutionary work on the general theory of relativity. PAGE A21
Business
SUGGESTIONS TO SPLIT GIANT CONTRACT BETWEEN 2 RIVALS TO BREAK IMPASSE
Boeing, the Chicago-based aerospace giant, and a joint venture involving Northrop Grumman and a European aerospace company have waged an almost operatic struggle for a $35 billion Pentagon contract to make tankers that can refuel warplanes in midair. As the Pentagon prepares to reopen bidding, some lawmakers and defense analysts are suggesting the contract be split between the two rivals. PAGE B1
BIG BETS GONE BAD IN CHINA
By making short-term and sometimes hasty bets on China's property market, analysts say, some of the world's biggest financial institutions, like Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank, may have lost as much as $10 billion. PAGE B1
In Korea, Legal Pain for Banks B1
Jobless, and Finding Hope Online B1
DEAL FOR I.B.M. TO BUY SUN IS NEAR
Locked in negotiations for weeks, I.B.M. is said to be on the verge of acquiring Sun Microsystems, a longtime rival in the computer server and software markets, for $9.50 a share. At one point, I.B.M. is said to have offered nearly $10 a share. PAGE B2
European Bank Cuts Rate by 1/4 Point B2
Breakingviews.com B2
EX-A.I.G. CHIEF SAYS RESCUE FAILED
Maurice R. Greenberg, the founder and former chairman of the American International Group, told a House committee that the government's $170 billion bailout had ''failed'' and that taxpayers would have been better off if the company had been allowed to go bankrupt. PAGE B3
G.E. and Intel See to Health at Home B3
Madoff's Home Drops in Value B3
House Passes Tobacco Bill B3
First American Arrested in UBS Case B3
COST CONTROLS AT THE PENTAGON
The Senate Armed Services Committee unanimously approved a bill to revamp the Pentagon's contracting process. The vote showed strong bipartisan support for President Obama's plans to rein in the costs of many weapons systems. PAGE B4
CHRYSLER CLOSES 2 PLANTS IN CANADA
A dispute between Chrysler Canada and a parts supplier has stopped production at two assembly plants in Canada and may spread to factories in the United States. PAGE B4
G.M. Willing to File for Bankruptcy B4
Kidnapping, a Labor Tactic in France B5
Austrian Banker Is Accused of Fraud B5
Jobless Claims Rise Unexpectedly B7
Advertising
Using a Laugh to Invite a Taste
ConAgra Foods began on an ambitious effort -- new products, new packaging and new commercials -- that seeks to reintroduce to consumers the Healthy Choice brand. PAGE B9
WEEKEND
New City, New Baggage:
Another Session on the Couch
The HBO series ''In Treatment'' begins its second season with the psychotherapist played by Gabriel Byrne, who has divorced and set up a practice in Brooklyn with a new roster of patients. If it is possible to find pleasure in other people's psychic pain -- and obviously it is -- there is no better place for it than in these new sessions, Alessandra Stanley writes. PAGE C1
STEP RIGHT UP AND GROW UP
''Adventureland'' captures a college graduate who takes a position at a sad little amusement park in the summer of 1987. Although the film plants its flag in explored territory, A. O. Scott writes, the story of a young man's coming of age never gets old when it is told with the kind of sweetness and intelligence that the film displays. PAGE C1
FOLLOWING A MINOR LEAGUE DREAM
The film ''Sugar'' follows a young pitcher from a training camp in the Dominican Republic to a minor league club in Iowa. It is infused with a deep affection for baseball, the rhythms and details of which are nimbly captured with subtlety and without egg-headed, glorious-pastime sententiousness, A. O. Scott writes. PAGE C1
The Ups and Downs in the Suburbs C2
THE RENAISSANCE VIEW OF THE STARS
''Galileo, the Medici and the Age of Astronomy,'' an important exhibition that opens at the Franklin Institute, features instruments of exploration from the Italian Renaissance including metal calipers, arcane charts, minutely inscribed maps, dials and a surviving telescope Galileo used, above. A label on the end of the telescope displays it's specifications including it's focal length in the unit of hands. The writing is Galileo's. PAGE C25
A DIVA FROM THE DEPTHS
''Mami Wata: Arts for Water Spirits in Africa and Its Diasporas,'' at the National Museum of African Art in Washington, shows the many faces of Mother Water, goddess of oceans, rivers and pools. Usually shown as a half-woman, half-fish, she slips with ease between incompatible elements and in this case mediums. PAGE C25
AN ALTERNATIVE MODERNISM
''Tangled Alphabets: Leon Ferrari and Mira Schendel'' is the Museum of Modern Art's latest attempt to explore Latin American modernism beyond the narrow version that it did so much to lock in place. PAGE C25
A Footnote to Beethoven C25
THE JOURNEY OF AN IRANIAN AUTEUR
Majid Majidi helped put Iranian cinema on the map with ''Children of Heaven,'' ''The Color of Paradise'' and ''Baran.'' Although his new film, ''The Song of Sparrows,'' has some of the trappings of a naturalistic drama, Stephen Holden writes, it is really a series of strict moral lessons pieced together into an austere Islamic sermon. PAGE C8
Sports
THE BEARS ACQUIRE CUTLER
From the Broncos
The Denver Broncos don't waste any time. Just 48 hours after they announced that quarterback Jay Cutler was on the market, they traded him to the Chicago Bears. The Bears clearly believe that Cutler is the answer to their offensive woes; they paid handsomely for him. Page F8
AT LONG LAST, 2 NEW STADIUMS
At the end of nearly two decades during which it appeared that no ballpark could ever be built in New York City, Citi Field and the new Yankee Stadium are finally open. Page F6
Escapes
SELLING THE VACATION HOME,
Well, Part of it Anyway
Some vacation homeowners have been looking to ease the bite of the economic crisis by selling their vacation homes a little bit at a time. Called a fractional, this type of sale is a step above time sharing and allows homeowners to tap into the equity of the home while retaining ownership and access. And if refinancing is not an option, this is one way for homeowners to get some cash back into their pockets. Page D1
TOURING PORTLAND LIKE A LOCAL
Taking to the streets of Portland, Ore., on a bicycle is a good way to see the city this time of year, not to mention being right at home with all the residents for whom taking to two wheels is an everyday thing. Tourists can even give a fair shot at developing that very Portland skill of managing to duck into a cafe just before a passing shower soaks the streets. Page D1
HIKING THROUGH THE SEASONS
The trail up Harney Peak in the Black Hills of South Dakota is one of the area's most popular hikes. As you trudge up the steep incline, it is not uncommon to see the seasons turn, as snowfall is rare but possible even in May. From the summit after a half-day's climb, you can gaze out on four states on the horizon. Page D1
Living Here
Under 1,500 Square Feet D4
Rituals
It's Tuesday. We Must Be in Ohio.
These days the Great Tour has nothing to do with backpacks or Europe. The college road trip has become the journey on the minds of many high school juniors and their parents. Can a parent imagine their child sleeping in these dorms, or wandering this campus? As importantly, can the potential student? Above, prospective students and their parents tour the campus of Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Me. Page D5
Editorial
THE ECONOMIC SUMMIT
Thursday's meeting of the world's top economic powers certainly produced more than the usual photo-ops and spin. But where the nations fell dangerously short was their refusal to commit to spend the hundreds of billions dollars in additional fiscal stimulus that the world economy needs to pull out of its frighteningly steep dive. PAGE A28
'ASTOUNDINGLY FLAWED'
The Bush administration rushed through regulations allowing people to carry concealed, loaded guns in national parks and wildlife refugees. Fortunately, a federal judge has blocked this last-minute mischief, giving the Obama administration a chance to do the right thing and withdraw the rule. PAGE A28
THE STEVENS CASE AND MR. HOLDER
The Bush Justice Department cynically put politics and ideology above the law. So it is gratifying to see how the current attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., is handling the case against Ted Stevens. PAGE A28
Op-Ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
China hasn't yet faced up to the wrenching changes that will be needed to deal with this global crisis. And that's bad news for all of us. PAGE A29
DAVID BROOKS
What happened to the global economy? There are two general narratives that seem to be gaining prominence, which we will call the greed narrative and the stupidity narrative. The greed narrative leads to the conclusion that government should aggressively restructure the financial sector. The stupidity narrative is suspicious of that sort of radicalism. We'd just be trading the hubris of Wall Street for the hubris of Washington. PAGE A29
A TORTURED INHERITANCE
Sylvia Plath's son, Nicholas Hughes, killed himself last month. In an Op-Ed article, Linda Gray Sexton, the daughter of the poet Anne Sexton, reflects on the nature of being a child of suicide. PAGE A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg. A2
 pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALIBAN (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); CARTELS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); AL-QAEDA (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); ARRESTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); HOMEOWNERS (66%); MONEY LAUNDERING (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (62%); FORECLOSURE (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (51%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) ALSACE, FRANCE (73%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); FRANCE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); INDIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); GEORGIA (91%); THAILAND (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011



101 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
The Vietnamese capital has evolved from a grim, famine-ravaged place into a sophisticated metropolis with high-rises, sensational cuisine and world-class art. At left, a view of Hanoi's West Lake during sunset from the Sunset Bar at the Intercontinental Hanoi West Lake. 
nytimes.com/travel
Opinion
The Conversation White House Time Bombs
The Op-Ed columnists Gail Collins and David Brooks discuss how President Obama may be putting off important decisions. Is it really time to panic?
nytimes.com/theconversation
Errol Morris Whose Father Was He?
The last installment of a five-part investigation into a photograph of three children that was found on the dead body of Amos Humiston, a fallen Union soldier, at Gettysburg in 1863.
nytimes.com/morris
Judith Warner Ban the Breast Pump
New questions about the superiority of breast-feeding over bottle-feeding call up even bigger doubts about whether a new mother really ought to pump her own milk.
nytimes.com/judithwarner
AN EARLY WARNING
From Catholic Priest
Letters to and from the Rev. Gerald M. C. Fitzgerald, who warned American bishops and even the pope about sexually abusive priests as early as 1952.
nytimes.com/national
AUDIO: POLITICAL POINTS PODCAST
David Kirkpatrick, Peter Baker, Sam Roberts and Jim Rutenberg discuss President Obama's first 100 days.
nytimes.com/politics
AUDIO: A TOLERANCE TEACHER
Born in Lebanon, Ghassan Elcheikhali, 54, came to the United States in 1986 and is principal of the Razi School in Woodside, Queens.
nytimes.com/onein8
INTERACTIVE: ROAD ENDS IN DETROIT
An interactive map of Detroit's sports venues, including Ford Field, site of this year's N.C.A.A. men's basketball Final Four.
nytimes.com/sports
VIDEO: A LOOK AT CITI FIELD
The Times's Jay Schreiber takes a tour of Citi Field and explores the Mets' new stadium's relationship with Ebbets Field, the former home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
nytimes.com/sports
Bits Phone Apps for the Blind, And Everyone Else
Google releases ''eyes-free'' applications that make the touch-screen T-Mobile G1 accessible to blind users.
nytimes.com/bits
AUDIO: THE WORLD'S MARKETS
Jeff Sommer talks with Floyd Norris about the rally in world markets amid rate cuts and a change in accounting rules that could make banks look more profitable.
nytimes.com/business
VIDEO: THE VOICES
Of the Unemployed
In Columbia, S.C., The Times's Peter Goodman looks at a slice of the national economy by talking to residents of this city who have lost their jobs. First in an ongoing video series.
nytimes.com/economy
VIDEO: THAT REMINDS ME ...
David Pogue reviews Reqall, an improved personal reminder service.
nytimes.com/personaltech
I FEEL NOT SO PRETTY
A profile and past coverage of Neil LaBute, whose new play, ''Reasons to Be Pretty,'' opened Thursday night on Broadway, and an interactive feature about the show's poster art.
nytimes.com/theater

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 36 Hours In Hanoi: The Vietnamese capital has evolved from a grim, famine-ravaged place into a sophisticated metropolis with high-rises, sensational cuisine and worldclass art. At left, a view of Hanoi's West Lake during sunset from the Sunset Bar at the Intercontinental Hanoi West Lake. nytimes.com/travel (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Spirit of the Tides, Half Woman, Half Fish: A slide show of images from ''Mami Wata'' at the National Museum of African Art, with a review by Holland Cotter. Mami Wata is a spiritual being portrayed as half-woman, half-fish. nytimes.com/design 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); BREASTFEEDING (74%); CHILDREN (74%); INFANT FORMULA (73%); FAMINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); RELIGION (67%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (66%); PODCASTING (65%); BASKETBALL (65%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (64%); SPORTS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%); WRITERS (56%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (55%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (52%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (95%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) VIETNAM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011



102 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Chairman of A.I.G. Says Bailout Has Failed

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Maurice R. Greenberg, the former chairman of the American International Group, said Thursday that the government's $170 billion bailout had failed and that taxpayers would have been better off letting the company go bankrupt. 
 ''It is clear that the current approach has not worked and cannot work in today's environment,'' Mr. Greenberg, who was ousted from A.I.G. in 2005, told the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. ''A.I.G., in my judgment, in the current plan, will not pay the taxpayers back.''
 Refusing to accept any personal blame for his former company's collapse, Mr. Greenberg insisted that A.I.G.'s problems stemmed from mismanagement after he left and that the Treasury and Federal Reserve had made things worse by trying to break the business up and sell it off in pieces. 
 He also disputed the statements of both the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, that letting the company go bankrupt would wreak further havoc with the economy.
 ''There would have been a ripple, but it wouldn't have been catastrophic,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''I don't think it would have been disastrous.''
 Mr. Greenberg immediately found himself in a bitter long-distance fight with A.I.G.'s current, government-installed management. Even as he was testifying, A.I.G. accused him of playing a central role in A.I.G. Financial Products, the unit that caused the company's collapse last year.
 ''Hank Greenberg continues to deny his role in allowing F.P. to write the multisector credit-default swaps which sowed the seeds for A.I.G.'s troubles,'' the company said, referring to the financial products unit. It went on to denounce Mr. Greenberg as evading questions and lacking credibility as a business strategist. 
 ''He refuses to acknowledge that he approved entry into the credit-default swap business, approved more than $40 billion of swaps written on C.D.O.'s containing subprime loans, and didn't hedge or put up reserves against them,'' the company said. Collateralized debt obligations are securities made from pools of loans and other forms of debt.
 ''We don't understand how he can be viewed as having any credibility on any A.I.G. issue.''
 The 83-year-old Mr. Greenberg has been locked in a bitter feud with his former company for months. A.I.G. is suing a company controlled by Mr. Greenberg, Starr International, seeking the return of 290 million shares of A.I.G. stock, as well as $4 billion that Starr received from selling other A.I.G. shares. The trial in that suit is scheduled for June.
 But the mutual recriminations on Thursday were the most vitriolic and expansive yet.
 Testifying for more than three hours, the former A.I.G. chairman cast himself as a rescuer rather than a villain. He attacked the strategy of both the current Treasury secretary, Mr. Geithner, and his predecessor in the Bush administration, Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 ''The failed plan ignored the key value driver of A.I.G.: its people,'' Mr. Greenberg said in his prepared remarks. ''Since the day the Treasury announced its plan to liquidate A.I.G., value has been destroyed because A.I.G.'s people and their relationships -- A.I.G.'s business -- are leaving.''
 Mr. Greenberg also said that Edward M. Liddy, whom the government recruited as A.I.G.'s chief executive when the company was being bailed out last fall, ''doesn't have the background for what needs to be done.''
 Mr. Greenberg asserted that he would have reduced or at least hedged A.I.G.'s exposure to credit-default swaps in 2005, when A.I.G.'s credit rating was reduced. 
 ''A.I.G.'s business model did not fail; its management did,'' he asserted. That provoked another scornful counterattack from his former company, saying that Mr. Greenberg's assertions were ''implausible,'' ''not grounded in reality'' and at odds with his track record of not hedging A.I.G.'s bets on credit-default swaps. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurice Greenberg, former chairman of A.I.G., told a House panel Thursday that the company was mismanaged after he left and that the Treasury and Federal Reserve had made things worse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (86%); TESTIMONY (78%); LITIGATION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



103 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Where Retro Meets Recession

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In the age of Madoff, in the age of bailouts, in the age of layoffs, comes the unprecedented spectacle of not one, but two heavily subsidized baseball stadiums opening in New York in the very same week.
 It is instructive that the Yankees have seen fit to bring in the Cubs and the Mets are welcoming the Red Sox, two ancient franchises that exist -- quite nicely, thank you -- in their historic ballparks. 
 With their separate sets of angst, the Cubs still play in Wrigley Field (opened in 1914) and the Red Sox still play in Fenway Park (opened in 1912), although both landmarks have been yuppified considerably. The Yankees and the Mets get to have it both ways -- tradition and glitz -- in their gaudy new playpens.
 Were these new places really necessary? Yankee Stadium was cramped and outmoded but quite awesome. Shea Stadium was a horror, but it was the Mets fans' beloved horror. Knowing what we know now about the economy, we surely could have lived with them indefinitely. 
 The main goal became turning ballparks into resorts, land cruises designed for A.I.G.-bonus-recipient wallets, the games lasting long enough to wring more twenties and hundreds out of the faithful.
 Bread and circuses. Shrimp and pennant races. Luxury boxes and follies. Laugh and cry.
 And yet, like salmon swimming upstream or birds migrating on ancient flyways, real fans will find a way to the ballparks, pulled by the life-affirming force of baseball coming around again in the spring.
 Fans will make their pilgrimage Friday night and Saturday, harking back to the old days when they spent a few dollars for a couple of hours of baseball. 
 Once upon a time, from 1923 through 1957, New York actually had three ballparks, where fans not only learned about baseball but about life, and sometimes even about architecture. 
 ''There was a grandeur to the original Yankee Stadium that had a profound impact on a young boy from Queens,'' recalled Alan Taxerman, a lawyer who saw his first game in Ebbets Field in Brooklyn. Built in 1913, with an Italianate rotunda behind home plate, Ebbets Field had a concave wall in right field that produced odd ricochets. 
 In Harlem sat the Polo Grounds, rebuilt in 1911 after a fire. It was tucked by necessity into the side of Coogan's Bluff, built in a horseshoe contour, with very short foul lines in right and left field. The upper deck protruded over the playing field, with 250-foot pop-fly home runs sometimes hitting the notorious overhang. 
 Taxerman's dad soon took him to the House That Ruth Built, later called (by Red Barber) the Big Ballpark in the Bronx.
 ''The Stadium seemed impossibly high, like a Greek temple or the Colosseum in ancient Rome,'' Taxerman recently recalled via e-mail.
 It was the first time he had ever heard the word facade, in reference to the 15-foot copper arches on the third deck of the majestic Stadium.
 ''To any normal 8-year-old boy, these esoteric terms would have seemed strange and foreign,'' Taxerman wrote. Mickey Mantle, not familiar with the word, famously mispronounced it ''fa-KARD,'' but he surely could rattle the ramparts with missiles off his bat. 
 ''Below the facade and the lower stands lay the pitch, the most beautifully manicured lawn I have ever seen, and in center field, in front of the 461 sign, stood three monuments, Ruth, Gehrig and Miller Huggins, right on the field,'' Taxerman wrote. ''These were innocent times, and I really asked my dad if they were buried there.''
 He added: ''And outside the field on River Avenue stood the El and a series of stores, bars, restaurants, bowling alley, which to a youngster seemed to strongly suggest that this was Yankee Town. This was a city devoted to the most famous team in all of sports. We knew what that meant, and if we seemed arrogant about it, surely, it was an arrogance based upon fact. It made us proud.'' 
 The ballpark as source of wonder. The ballpark as the center of the agora, the marketplace. Ballparks had nothing to do with oval stadiums that housed football games. Cookie-cutter stadiums for football and baseball were a phase, a trend, now discredited. Ballparks were for 77, now 81, home games a season, a gathering place for hopes and fears. 
 ''I hate to go -- but I hate to stay,'' a fan muttered late one night in the rickety old Polo Grounds in 1962. The Giants and the Dodgers had split for California after the 1957 season, and the Polo Grounds was briefly resurrected for the raffish Mets. When Shea opened in 1964, female ushers wore fancy outfits, as if they were BOAC stewardesses flying to London. That touch did not last long. Not in Queens. 
 Shea was a dump the day it was built. But at the moment, some Mets patrons are screaming about the thousands of dollars they have spent for outfield seats from which they cannot see the warning track. And prices are even more grotesque at the new Yankee Stadium, with tickets costing a minimum of $350 downstairs, along the infield. 
 Have the Steinbrenners of the Bronx and the Wilpons of Queens succumbed to hubris in building smaller palaces catering to the rich, with luxury boxes and waiter service? When Fred Wilpon sat on his father's lap in Ebbets Field, to save the price of a ticket, one did not order a hot dog from a waiter. 
 Both new stadiums retain a note of reality from the mundane clatter of elevated trains, a reminder that real people go to work on the 4 train in the Bronx and the 7 train in Queens. 
 At least both teams remained in their neighborhoods. The Yankees never followed through on their threats to escape to the West Side of Manhattan or, gasp, New Jersey. But the price was putting the new stadium on a sweet little park that used to house joggers and tennis players. Mayor Bloomberg's administration keeps saying it will replace the vanished parkland with vest-pocket parks on tops of garages. The children are waiting. 
 The Yankees have done the right thing in recognizing that the name Yankee Stadium outweighs the income from some transient corporation. The Mets' new playpen is, for the moment, named Citi Field, after a bank that hustled its way into insolvency and has been bailed out by you and me. 
 The Mets' stadium has been criticized by Paul Goldberger in The New Yorker as being too pretentious for the tacky auto-repair shops of this outer-borough locale. As a Queens boy, I respond with the immortal words of Steve Martin: ''Well, excuuuuse me.''
 Ballparks are supposed to be out there with the people. In Flatbush, Brooklyn, you emerged from the subway into a rabbit warren of hot dog stands and candy stores and other utilitarian outlets. Real life. 
 Now we have these swanky new joints. The Mets and the Yankees have made their deals with the devil, the luxury-box trade. And for an opening attraction, they bring in teams from the two grand old ballparks of America. Play ball.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BAILOUTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); CLASSICS (71%); BIRDS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ROME, ITALY (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



104 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: As the Foreclosed Move Out, First-Time Buyers Are Moving In

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
While her friends ran up credit card debt and bought show homes beyond their means, Taina Goldman saved for a down payment. She moved back in with her parents, sharing a room with her young daughter, ate in and worked two jobs. 
 ''I don't live dangerously,'' said Ms. Goldman, 42, a nurse. ''You can't live on 'what if.' ''
 Now, she is reaping the rewards. She and her daughter recently moved into a three-bedroom, two-bathroom ranch-style house, with a pool, after putting 20 percent down and persuading the seller to cover most of her closing costs. She paid $187,000 for a house that sold in July 2006 for $370,000. 
 And there are many more like her. Across Florida and other states with high numbers of foreclosures, severe declines in real estate values are reinvigorating a group of buyers previously priced out: middle-class families with steady jobs, who are often buying a home for the first time. 
 Figures released last week by the National Association of Realtors show that sales of existing homes across the country rose 5.1 percent in February, with much of the increase concentrated in foreclosed homes bought for less than $300,000. Even with tighter borrowing restrictions, many families used to renting are discovering that they can afford to own. 
 ''They are the most active participants right now because they don't have the burden of having to sell their old homes,'' said James Diffley, a managing director at IHS Global Insight, a research firm. ''You have a bunch of young people who were forced to sit on the sidelines because houses were so darn expensive, and now they're starting to come in.'' 
 Real estate agents in Arizona, Florida, Nevada and other states hit hard by the bust say they began to notice rising interest among first-time buyers a few months ago, as prices dropped by more than a third.
 The addition of a tax credit of up to $8,000, part of the federal housing rescue plan passed in February, appears to be sweetening the pot for some of those buyers, while banks eager to unload foreclosed properties have also begun to offer incentives, like money for closing costs.
 ''A lot of the banks have adjusted their thinking,'' said John Ahlbrand, a real estate agent who with his wife, Ruth, owns ReMax Central in Las Vegas. ''If they show they have the ability to repay -- imagine that -- then the bank helps.'' 
 In some areas, several families have pooled enough money to pay cash for homes. There are others, like Ms. Goldman, who saved enough to afford a traditional down payment and mortgage. 
 But in many cases, agents and loan officers say, first-time buyers are receiving loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration, which allow for lower credit scores and a down payment of only 3.5 percent. 
 Unlike the subprime mortgages doled out a few years ago to nearly anyone who asked, F.H.A. loans include strict income requirements. Buyers must document two years of employment history with pay stubs and W-2 forms that are verified by the underwriter, and they can typically borrow only around 31 percent of their income, or 43 percent when other debt is included. 
 Andrea Heuson, a finance professor at the University of Miami, said the tighter restrictions should help ensure that people who buy can afford to pay what they owe -- as long as they keep their jobs. 
 A second risk is that these new buyers will walk away if property values continue to drop. 
 Jennifer Vaughn's development in Homestead is one of many where prices seem to fall by the day. 
 A 26-year-old first-time buyer, Ms. Vaughn closed on a three-bedroom, three-bathroom townhouse in November, paying $87,000 for the foreclosed property with an F.H.A. loan. The price was far below the $261,000 the house sold for in October 2006, but a few weeks ago, a townhouse with the same layout and fancier features sold for $75,000. And a third is about to close for $65,000, said Andy Lopez, a real estate agent at Keyes Company Realtors who found Ms. Vaughn her townhouse. So already, she appears to owe more than her home is worth. Not that she minds. 
 ''I'm going to stay for five or six years at least,'' Ms. Vaughn said, ''and I'm sure prices will go up somewhat by then.''
 She also has one of the recession's safest job: she works for a collection agency. Ms. Vaughn said she could afford her $1,100 monthly payment, which includes taxes and insurance, and had already settled in.
 ''It's like the best feeling,'' she said, admiring the arches in her doorways. ''I never thought I could own.''
 Many other buyers are equally giddy. 
 Julio Cesar Memeses, 45, a construction worker who is about to close on a three-bedroom home in West Phoenix for $50,000, said he and his family were thrilled to own ''a piece of the American dream.'' He said they were not worried about making their mortgage payments because the price was so low. 
 Ms. Goldman, too, said she felt pleased. ''It's like, wow, I accomplished something,'' she said. 
 She said she had visited 200 properties before finding her current home late one night and deciding she had to have it. Sliding open the glass door to the pool on a sunny afternoon, she said: ''I love the light. That's what captured me.''
 Her daughter, Tiffany Munro, 14, stood beside her. ''I'm, like, this is my house,'' Tiffany said, looking skyward, and smiling. ''I get to live here.''
 The house, a foreclosure in the Kendall neighborhood, needed a little work. Some lights had been removed, and the fence had been painted the colors of a rainbow. Tiffany insisted that the fence be repainted white (''like white picket fences in the old movies,'' she said). 
 Tiffany also asked permission to paint her bedroom wall with a mural of her own design -- a drawing with dozens of small hearts. 
 In all, Ms. Goldman said she spent about $6,000 fixing up the house. Like Ms. Vaughn, Ms. Goldman said she did not worry about declining prices because she had no plans to leave. 
 Asked if she felt vindicated -- rewarded for saving when so many others spent -- she said no. ''It's sad that for me to buy a house, the economy had to be like it is,'' she said.
 Sitting on her couch, overlooking the pool, Ms. Goldman said she feared that the drop in prices would draw back the same investors who created the housing bubble in the first place. Real estate agents said this was already happening, even as the wave of foreclosures and evicted families would most likely continue. 
 ''It's not worth it in the end,'' Ms. Goldman said, adding, ''It's unfortunate that I have to build my happiness on top of tears.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Taina Goldman, 42, a nurse, with her daughter, Tiffany Munro, 14, visited 200 houses in Miami before finding her new home.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 Tiffany Munro and her mother, Taina Goldman, in the dining room of their new home.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); FAMILY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (71%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (87%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



105 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Medvedev Resurrects Idea of Replacing Dollar as Reserve Currency

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
So much for that fresh start. 
 Barely 24 hours after announcing that Russia and the United States would cooperate on a variety of long-simmering issues, President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia reproposed a Russian idea that the United States had thought it had batted away: starting a new basket of strong regional currencies to replace the dollar as the world's reserve currency. 
 In a speech before leaders here at the Group of 20 summit meeting, Mr. Medvedev said that the countries most responsible for the global economic crisis (read: the United States) are not taking their fair share of the burden for ''macroeconomic policies'' needed to fix the problem.
 ''On this basis we conclude that it would be wise to support the creation of strong regional currencies and to use them as the basis for a new reserve currency,'' Mr. Medvedev said. ''One could also consider partially backing this currency with gold.''
 This is not the first time Russia has brought up the idea of replacing the dollar -- it floated the idea two weeks ago, and a recent essay by a Chinese economic official said the same thing.
 But Obama administration officials quickly poured water on the proposal, and it had seemed that the issue was dead after Group of 20 officials said they would not be taking up the proposal at the meeting.
 Mr. Medvedev, however, brought it up anyway. ''It is not our goal to destroy existing institutions or to weaken the dollar, pound or euro,'' he said, according to a translation of a speech provided by an adviser to the Russian government. ''We are simply calling for a joint assessment of how the global currency system can most favorable be developed for the sake of the global economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (89%); EURO (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



106 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 5140 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.comart. 
 Museums
 BARD GRADUATE CENTER: 'ENGLISH EMBROIDERY FROM THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, 1580-1700,' through April 12. At once revelatory and great fun, this exhibition examines one of the world's most beloved and ancient art forms/crafts/hobbies during one of its golden ages, a time that included mind-boggling turmoil. Given the beheadings, regime changes and warring ethnic and religious factions -- outlined in the show's exemplary catalog -- it is a miracle that anybody had time for anything, much less great needlework. But it was a leading indicator of wealth and status, a means of decoration, a form of moral instruction and a sign of wifely devotion. Glass beads, pearls, raised work, applique and striped ribbons mix with an intimidating array of stitches for effects that are never less than stunning. 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, bgc.bard.edu. (Roberta Smith)20090402 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GUSTAVE CAILLEBOTTE: IMPRESSIONIST PAINTINGS FROM PARIS TO THE SEA,' through July 5. Thirty-some years ago, the museum had a big success with a Caillebotte retrospective that more or less introduced American audiences to an artist who was an Impressionist by association rather than by style or temperament. His three best-known pictures, ''The Floor Scrapers,'' ''The Pont de l'Europe'' and ''Paris Street, Rainy Day,'' all grand urban scenes from the late 1870s, are absent from this show, which is a more modest enterprise than a survey, with emphasis falling on less-focused late work. But Caillebotte was a painter as interesting for his weaknesses as for his strengths, and any exposure is valuable. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20090402
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'HERNAN BAS: WORKS FROM THE RUBELL FAMILY COLLECTION,' through May 24. With a loose, deft touch, this young Miamian paints and draws storytelling images of winsome young men in homoerotically charged situations. He also creates video installations, the best of which involve old films of women in mermaid costumes performing underwater. This disproportionately big and splashy 10-year retrospective was organized by and first appeared (in 2007) at the Rubell Family Collection, a private museum in Miami where the art collectors Don and Mera Rubell exhibit their holdings. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20090402
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'MASTERPIECES OF EUROPEAN PAINTING FROM THE NORTON SIMON MUSEUM,' through May 10. In a rare exchange that inaugurates a reciprocal loan agreement, five paintings from the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, Calif., have been temporarily installed in the Frick's Oval Room. The Simon paintings, which date from the 16th and 17th centuries, bring a whiff of fresh air into the Frick. None of the artists -- two Spaniards, two Italians and one Flemish master -- are currently represented in its collection. Of special note are Francisco de Zurbaran's ''Still Life With Lemons, Oranges and a Rose'' (1633), which has been freshly cleaned for the occasion, and Guercino's commanding portrait of an Italian count's pet mastiff, ''Aldrovandi Dog'' (1625). 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20090402
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE HUGO BOSS PRIZE 2008: EMILY JACIR,' through April 15. The first part of this Palestinian-American conceptualist's show is a kind of walk-in scrapbook of photographs, letters, interviews and diaristic texts telling the story of Wael Zuaiter, a Palestinian intellectual who was killed by Israeli secret service agents, supposedly in retribution for the murder of 11 Israeli athletes and coaches by Palestinian terrorists during the 1972 Munich Olympic games. The second part is a memorial to Mr. Zuaiter consisting of 1,000 slender white books, into each of which Ms. Jacir has shot a .22-caliber bullet. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Johnson)20090402
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE THIRD MIND: AMERICAN ARTISTS CONTEMPLATE ASIA: 1860-1989,' through April 19. This strange, often beautiful, long-overdue show gives us, as expected, nature, cosmic consciousness and tons of Zen. But there's also enough revisionist thinking to muss up standard accounts of American Modernism. Not everything works; the installation alternates blank stretches with cluttered stretches, and sculpture seems a bit tossed in. But who cares, if you have under-regarded artists like Mark Tobey, Morris Graves, Paul Kos, Natvar Bhavsar, Zarina Hashmi, Tadaaki Kuwayama, Lee Mullican, Gordon Onslow-Ford, Harry Smith, Jordan Belson, James Whitney, Linda Montano, Mark Thompson and Tehching Hsieh to contemplate? There's a lot of bliss to follow here, not the least being that the Guggenheim has, for once, defied the market and gone for a subject still little-known. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter)20090402
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 2009 YEAR OF FASHION, through May 3. Four synergistic shows inaugurate the museum's yearlong focus on fashion photography. Leading off is the snapping, crackling survey ''Weird Beauty: Fashion Photography Now'': a floor-to-ceiling, push-pull installation that clocks the genre as a fast-moving collective expression that is as esoteric as abstract art, and as startling as a sleek, hissing serpent in the drab garden of everyday reality. Stylists, in particular, shine. ''This Is Not a Fashion Photograph'' reveals faces, bodies, garments, poses and style in a century's worth of nonfashion photographs by everyone from Jacob Riis to Malick Sidibe. ''Edward Steichen: In High Fashion, the Conde Nast Years, 1923-1937'' affirms fashion photography's short but definite history by examining in detail how this pioneer more or less invented both fashion photography and celebrity portraiture while working for Vogue and Vanity Fair. ''Munkacsi's Lost Archive'' is less an exhibition than a prelude to one, but it elucidates post-Steichen developments by highlighting Martin Munkacsi, a photographer who set fashion models in motion, further blurring the line between fashion and nonfashion photography. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Smith)20090402
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'KRAZY! THE DELIRIOUS WORLD OF ANIME + MANGA + VIDEO GAMES,' through June 14. This show addresses a vibrant chapter in the history of visual storytelling: a specifically Japanese set of approaches that has gained a worldwide following over the past two decades. It will not live up to its promise for devoted followers of Japanese pop culture, but as a multimedia sampler including comics, graphic novels, video games, action figures, animated cartoons and more, it might entice the uninitiated to explore the field more deeply. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Ken Johnson)20090402
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'RECLAIMED: PAINTINGS FROM THE COLLECTION OF JACQUES GOUDSTIKKER,' through Aug. 2. This show of paintings returned to the family of Goudstikker, a prominent Dutch gallery owner who died while fleeing the Nazis, is many exhibitions in one. It's a portrait of an enormously successful art dealer who shaped tastes and markets between the wars. It's a marriage of Northern Baroque and Southern Renaissance painting. Most of all, it's an extraordinary, continuing tale of looting and restitution. At the center of all these stories is a small black notebook, used by Goudstikker to catalog his inventory of some 1,400 works and now on display, in actual and digitized form, at the Jewish Museum. Other highlights include a landscape by Salomon von Jacobsz Ruysdael and a portrait by Rembrandt's pupil Ferdinand Bol. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090402
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART OF THE KOREAN RENAISSANCE, 1400-1600,'through June 21. The Korean gallery at the Met is a trim, tall, well-proportioned box of light. But it's just one room, and a smallish one at that, a reflection of the museum's modest holdings in art from this Asian country. So no surprise that the expansive-sounding show is a small thing too, with four dozen objects, most of them -- ceramic jars, lacquered boxes, scroll paintings -- compact enough to be stashed in a closet. But what it lacks in grandeur, it makes up for in fineness, and in rarity.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090402
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'CAST IN BRONZE: FRENCH SCULPTURE FROM RENAISSANCE TO REVOLUTION,'through May 24. Most of the works in this impeccably scholarly exhibition display a cold impersonality, cramped imagination and slavish obeisance to the official culture of their times. But there are compelling exceptions, including small, action-packed sculptures representing episodes in the life of Hercules by Francois Lespingola, and Jean-Antoine Houdon's ''Winter or La Frileuse,'' a heartbreakingly lovely statue of a young woman nude, except for a shawl wrapped around her bowed head and shoulders.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090402
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'CHOIRS OF ANGELS: PAINTING IN ITALIAN CHOIR BOOKS, 1300-1500,'through April 12. The transition from medieval to Early and High Renaissance painting is told in a new way with a series of small, gemlike images that originally decorated illuminated initials in Italian choir books. The vividly colored scenes turned the initials into little stages, while running the gamut of biblical narratives. (Depictions of martyrdom were big.) They are the work of anonymous monks and of well-known painters like Lorenzo Monaco and Sano di Pietro.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090402
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PIERRE BONNARD: THE LATE INTERIORS,'through April 19. This sumptuous show presents around 40 of the interiors and still lifes that Bonnard painted between 1923 and his death early in 1947, a time usually identified with the Bather paintings that are considered his masterpieces. Those works are missed here, but not terribly. Compensation comes mainly from some nearly abstract still lifes and several large canvases in which Bonnard combines still life, interior, landscape and painting-within-painting into a fabulous optical puzzle. The images expand time through their pictorial complexity, saturated colors and shifting textures, as well as through the semi-hidden figures whose sudden appearances -- even though they've been there all along -- suggest events unfolding.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090402
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'RAPHAEL TO RENOIR: DRAWINGS FROM THE COLLECTION OF JEAN BONNA,'through April 26. Candy box displays like this show of 120 European drawings are natural crowd pleasers, and for obvious reasons. They're very much about comparison shopping and personal taste. Relax-and-browse is their operative mode. And if they are confections, their flavor has range and intensities, from soft-center sugary to dense bittersweet. History is here if you want to find it, but if you don't, that's O.K. Enjoy.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090402
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,'through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090402
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'WALKER EVANS AND THE PICTURE POSTCARD,'through May 25. This compact exhibition, the first drawn from the museum's extensive Walker Evans archives, unforgettably illuminates Evans's lean, influential documentary style: the picture postcards he collected from age 12 onward, an ultimate collection of 9,000 examples organized by subject. The show includes some 700 arranged in expanses that bring to mind Conceptual Art. Most visually rewarding is a smattering of his photographs, seen beside the postcards he made from them, for an unrealized project with the Museum of Modern Art. He was fearless about cropping, and often made outstanding images even better.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090402
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ON THE MONEY: CARTOONS FOR THE NEW YORKER,' through May 24. Go to this exhibition and you will see not only how money is like a cartoon, but also how cartoons shed light on money. In more than 80 drawings, the complexities of economic theory dissolve into the far more pungent currency of social relations, of status and snobbery, pretense and pride, distilling finance to its human essence. Money becomes a chit in the social game, a medium of exchange in a world careering between boom and bust. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Edward Rothstein)20090402
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'THE THAW COLLECTION OF MASTER DRAWINGS: ACQUISITIONS SINCE 2002,' through May 3. The Thaw Collection of Master Drawings, promised to the Morgan Library & Museum, has been introduced to the public in a series of exhibitions since 1975, each reflecting the latest additions by the former art dealer Eugene V. Thaw and his wife, Clare. This installment of 80 recently acquired drawings from the past five centuries is a bit smaller than the last one in 2002-3, though it includes sure-to-please works by Ingres, Gauguin and others. Many selections reflect the Thaws' passion for 19th-century German Romantic art, which may not be for all tastes. The curators make the most of this historically unbalanced group, however, sketching out a pragmatically loose chronology. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20090402
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through April 19. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies' pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a love seat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)20090402
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'INTO THE SUNSET: PHOTOGRAPHY'S IMAGE OF THE AMERICAN WEST,'through June 8. Almost every one of this resonant exhibition's approximately 150 pictures dating from 1850 to 2008 evokes tension between the myth and the reality of the great American West. Its overall perspective is predictably bleak, but it is loaded with arresting images, from the 19th-century group portrait of the outlaw gang the Wild Bunch in suits and bowler hats to Irving Penn's glamorizing studio shot of five Hells Angels and their two girlfriends.(212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20090402
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARTIN KIPPENBERGER: THE PROBLEM PERSPECTIVE,'through May 11. The career of the German artist Martin Kippenberger, who died in 1997 at 44, was a brief, bold, foot-to-the-floor episode of driving under the influence. What was he high on? Alcohol, ambition, disobedience, motion, compulsive sociability, history and art in its many forms. But art in its many forms was exactly what he made -- specifically paintings, drawings, sculptures, photographs, prints, posters, books -- all in madly prolific quantities. In every sense, he took up a lot of space, and he continues to in this first American retrospective, which spills out of top-floor galleries and down into the atrium. Not everything has equal punch. If messy and bad aren't your thing, and pristine objects are, he's not the artist for you. Yet in each work, the model he set for what an artist can be and do shines through.(212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20090402
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 1: TEHCHING HSIEH,'through May 18. This small, gripping exhibition -- the first in a series dedicated to performance art -- centers on the documentation of ''Cage Piece'' (1978-79), the first of five ''One Year Performances'' by the deprivation-prone Taiwanese artist Tehching Hsieh. The piece entailed spending one year doing absolutely nothing in nearly solitary confinement in a cell-like cage, built in the artist's studio. The show includes the cell, as well as daily photographs of the artist that measure the year in the growth of his hair. Few performance pieces communicate the demands of this particular genre in such a basic, resonant way, or its ability to expand our understanding of time and space with such simple force.(212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090402
 NEUE GALERIE: 'BRUCKE: THE BIRTH OF EXPRESSIONISM IN DRESDEN AND BERLIN, 1905-1913,' through June 29. The original bad boys of 20th-century German art are featured in this visually aggressive show, specifically Erich Heckel, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Max Pechstein and their driven, putative leader, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. Together they revived a rawness of feeling, form and execution that had been largely absent from European art since the Middle Ages, but they also unleashed a palpable Dada swagger before Dada. As their dreams had not yet been trammeled by World War I, theirs was still a fairly cheerful barbarism, based on the belief that they could retrieve what was good and natural in the world if they just took off their clothes, danced around a bit and made art. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20090402
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'JONATHAN HOROWITZ: AND/OR,' through Sept. 14. Andy Warhol's grandchildren, numerous beyond count, have cashed in on his rich and radical legacy to see what further possibilities it might yield. Such is the case with the New York artist Jonathan Horowitz in this smart, crisply edited retrospective. The works evoke the media-saturated art of the 1970s, the neo-Conceptualist consumer art of the 1980s, and the identity art of the 1990s, landing in a Neverneverland era, in which analog is poised to turn to digital, and Doris Day and Paris Hilton have equal currency. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)20090402
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Oct. 5. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20090402
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEX BAG,'through April 12. Alex Bag's videos take aim at television in all its forms: the infomercial, the reality show, the nature documentary, even the children's programs hosted in the 1960s and '70s by Ms. Bag's mother, Carol Corbett. In her latest video, commissioned by the Whitney Museum and on view in its lobby gallery, Ms. Bag reimagines her mother's work from her own jaded 21st-century perspective. The mock show is hosted by an ''off my meds'' depressive (Ms. Bag) with narcoleptic tendencies. Its supporting cast includes a wisecracking puppet, a strung-out folk singer in a wheelchair, a creepy animal handler and a witchy doppelganger who resembles a character from Ms. Bag's 2004 video ''Coven Services.''(212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20090402
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'JENNY HOLZER: PROTECT PROTECT,'through May 31. After decades of pelting us with unsettling, increasingly relevant portents, Jenny Holzer can say, ''I told you so.'' This 15-year survey proves that her signature LED-sign conflations of poetry, politics, reading and seeing are ever more dazzling; her warnings about the military-commercial-entertainment complex ever more pertinent. In addition, as time has overtaken her, Ms. Holzer has turned from soothsaying to simply reporting the facts. Her latest light works and paintings take their language and motifs entirely from declassified and redacted government documents concerning the war in Iraq. This is a beautiful show, but not a pretty sight.(212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090402
 Galleries: Uptown
 JAMES CASTLE: 'DRAWINGS: VISION AND TOUCH,' through April 25. His atmospheric, extravagantly tonal soot drawings make Castle (1899-1977) something like the Vuillard of the American West, as well as one of the greatest outsider artists of the 20th century. These 34 landscapes, farmyards and interiors have never been exhibited. They picture the world of Castle's childhood and reflect an acute visual intelligence and an instinctive grasp of space, both of which were undoubtedly sharpened by the artist's deafness. They are lonely, silent, but immensely tender images. Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com. (Smith)20090402
 Galleries: 57th Street
 JAMES CASTLE, through April 18. One of the geniuses of 20th-century outsider art is represented here by his subtle grisaille drawings of his family farm rendered in soot mixed with spit; his more rudimentary images rendered from brightly colored paper pulp (also self-made); and his relatively jarring constructions of folded paper and cardboard tied together with string (exemplified here by a magnificent black pram). All have markedly different effects. The cardboard pieces suggest that in his understanding of structure, moving parts and the abbreviation of familiar forms, Castle used cardboard as brilliantly as Alexander Calder used wire, but with more corners. Ameringer Yohe Fine Art, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 445-0051, ameringer-yohe.com. (Smith)20090402
 Galleries: Chelsea
 THOMAS HIRSCHHORN: 'UNIVERSAL GYM,' through April 11. Although handsomely funky and hand-made, Thomas Hirschhorn's latest adventure in tape and topicality is bland by the standards of previous works, in which political information and viewpoints mingle, and in which discussions of war, violence, pornography or consumerism are born. In this environment everything that might be used to work out is taped down; the only things moving are pulsing TV screens monitoring heartbeats. Are we paralyzed by narcissism? Fiddling while Rome burns? What else is new? Gladstone Gallery, 530 West 21st Street, (212) 206-7606, gladstonegallery.com. (Smith)20090402
 PAUL SHARITS, through April 11. This historic show restores to full four-projector glory ''Shutter Interface,'' a lush, anarchic structuralist masterpiece from 1975 that is almost never seen whole. Frames of changing saturated color speed past, blur and also jump -- thanks to blacked-out frames signaled by high-frequency bleeps. The physical properties of film, brilliantly exploited, achieve a perfectly logical delirium. Equally enveloping is a display of 50 works on paper that encapsulate the working methods, obsessions and explosive sensibility of Mr. Sharits, who died in 1993 at 50. Greene Naftali, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 463-7770, greenenaftaligallery.com. (Smith)20090402
 Galleries: Other
 'DAMAGED ROMANTICISM,'through April 12. The theme of this group show will be familiar to viewers of the 2006 Whitney Biennial, ''Day for Night,'' and the New Museum's 2008 group show ''After Nature.'' Those exhibitions struck a political and environmental chord, one that echoes faintly here. Many works hint at apocalyptic fantasies, or what the curators call ''an aftermath aesthetic.'' Some choices feel too predictable (Edward Burtynsky and Sophie Calle), others glamorously irrelevant (Wangechi Mutu and Angelo Filomeno). Jesper Just's videos are a bright spot, reminding us that good artists (the original Romantics included) have always been able to accommodate conflicting emotions. The show, which originated at the Blaffer Gallery at the University of Houston, is now split between two museums: Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart (closes on Saturday) and Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane, Southampton, (631) 283-2118, parrishart.org (through April 12).(Rosenberg)20090402
 ZOE LEONARD, through April 12. Always an exceptionally moving artist, though only sporadically visible, Zoe Leonard has a two-part exhibition at the Hispanic Society of America in Washington Heights, organized under the auspices of the Dia Art Foundation, and another at Dia:Beacon, an hour and a half north of the city. They are different from some of her earlier shows: cooler and less intimate, documentary in form, broadly social in scope. At the same time, they share a sensibility with what has come before, one attuned to realities of constant change, which as often as not means loss. Through Sept. 7 at Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diaart.org. Hispanic Society of America, Audubon Terrace, Broadway between 155th and 156th Streets, Washington Heights, (212) 926-2234, hispanicsociety.org. (Cotter)20090402
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA: 'DIRT ON DELIGHT: IMPULSES THAT FORM CLAY,' through June 21. Ignoring the art-craft divide, this bold show examines ceramics in its own right. With George Ohr as Jackson Pollock, it ranges from postwar greats like Peter Voulkos and Ken Price, to younger eminences like Adrian Saxe and Arlene Shechet, to new arrivals like Sterling Ruby, Jessica Jackson Hutchins and Jeffry Mitchell. The clash of approaches to beauty, technique, scale, color and finish is exuberantly edifying. It foments hope that the Minimal-Conceptual-Relational art religion (important as it is) could wither away, and curators of contemporary art could regain full use of their eyes and thus their brains. 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Smith)20090402
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'SHEPARD FAIREY: SUPPLY AND DEMAND,' through Aug. 16. The surprise of the first museum retrospective for the creator of the Obama Hope poster is that almost everything he does, from abstracted images of Andre the Giant to his album covers for Led Zeppelin and other bands, is visually arresting. But in tracking his 20-year evolution from aesthetic anarchist to savvy, all-purpose designer and illustrator, the exhibition inadvertently casts doubt on his authenticity as a radical street artist. 100 Northern Avenue, Boston, (617) 478-3100, icaboston.org. (Johnson)20090402
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'PRIDE OF PLACE: DUTCH CITYSCAPES OF THE GOLDEN AGE,' through May 3. There is nothing like a beautiful city, and there are several, lovingly painted, in this quiet, gorgeous exhibition. The display of 48 paintings, 22 maps and assorted atlases and printed books includes works by Jan van Goyen, Gerrit Berckheyde, Jan van der Heyden, Jacob van Ruisdael and other preternaturally skillful painters of intensely realistic yet idyllic images of cities and towns viewed from far and near. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. ( Johnson)20090402
 Last Chance
 NINA CHANEL ABNEY: 'EMMA'S BASEMENT'; closes on Saturday. The title of Nina Chanel Abney's second New York show, ''Emma's Basement,'' sets the scene for Flaubert's ''Madame Bovary'' in a perfervid underworld, where presumed absolutes like race and gender are unstable; narratives run from dreamy to nightmarish; and the moral tone is impossible to parse: good and evil switch roles; orgies could be sacred celebrations. Still in her 20s, Ms. Abney was introduced by her very smart gallery just a few years ago, arriving with a fully developed painting style and a command of scale. She sustains that mastery in this show, which has marginally less impact than her first in 2008 -- two solo outings in the course of a year stretches even a strong talent thin -- but confirms that she is an artist to watch. Kravets/Wehby, 521 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-2238, kravetswehbygallery.com. (Cotter)20090402
 JON KESSLER: 'KESSLER'S CIRCUS'; closes on Saturday. In a nod to Alexander Calder's similarly inventive but emotionally very different ''Circus,'' Mr. Kessler has installed funky, motorized and video-equipped contraptions, in most of which G.I. Joe-type dolls are subjected to sadistic abuse under a big top in the form of a green Army surplus tent. With all their moving parts exposed, they give the impression of works by an ingenious, possibly crazy Iraq war veteran. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com. (Johnson)20090402
 ROBERT MANGOLD: 'DRAWINGS AND WORKS ON PAPER 1965-2008'; closes on Saturday. This survey of works on paper starts in the 1960s, when Mr. Mangold was a Minimalist of a ticklish sensibility, prepared to introduce a note of absurdity, not to say comedy, into geometry. In his early drawings he inserted subliminal kinks in grids, disturbed circles with bumps; he drew diagrammatic forms of Euclidean logic only to leave one line dangling loose. Taken in isolation, few of the abstract images are particularly gripping. But arranged together, salon-style, across the gallery wall, their invention and variety are a thrill. Pace Wildenstein, 32 East 57th Street, (212) 421-3292, pacewildenstein.com. (Cotter)20090402
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES';closes on Sunday. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. Rosenberg)20090402

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Klangforum Wien: This ensemble from Austria presents ''Free Radicals,'' a program exploring the parallel developments of contemporary music and film, on Saturday at Alice Tully Hall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKAS BECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); ART COLLECTING (79%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



107 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Boston Mayor Wants Sailing Event to Pay Its Own Way

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
In a city obsessed with history and the ocean, it would seem that a festival celebrating its maritime heritage would be greeted with open arms. Instead, it has stirred up another Boston tradition, the political drama. 
 On Wednesday, Mayor Thomas M. Menino told Sail Boston, local organizers of an international regatta of tall ships, that he would not support this year's event unless the organization submitted a plan detailing how it intended to pay for an estimated $2 million in public safety, trash pickup and other city service costs. 
 The decision came one day after the organization failed to meet its deadline for the plan.
 ''We're not going to participate if we can't get a plan'' for how the city will be reimbursed, said Dot Joyce, a spokeswoman for Mr. Menino. 
 Organizers for the July event, in which 50 tall ships from 20 countries will sail into Boston Harbor and dock for five days, said the ships would come to Boston anyway. They are trying to come up with a reimbursement plan and are working to raise money for the extravaganza, which is expected to draw 800,000 people to the waterfront. 
 ''The ships are sailing in the race,'' said David Choate, a project manager for Sail Boston. ''Rather than send a plan that is not fully developed, we made sure we took our time and met with the appropriate people to develop a plan that would be reasonable.'' 
 Mr. Choate said organizers would consider cutting back on some events, including the Parade of Ships, historically the most-attended attraction. Sail Boston is expected to cost up to $4 million. Organizers have raised ''over $1 million,'' Mr. Choate said.
 The state, not the city, receives the tax revenue from large events, Ms. Joyce said, and organizers usually pay for city services. 
 Mr. Menino's threat to withdraw support is the latest salvo in what has become a contentious relationship between the city and the tall ships festival. 
 The city was left with a $1.6 million bill after the last Sail Boston event, in 2000. Faced with budget cuts and layoffs this year, officials said they could not justify paying $2 million for a party. 
 ''We would love to have this event; it's great for business in this economy,'' Ms. Joyce said. ''But there are a whole host of reasons the taxpayers of Boston can't be the only ones holding the bag, especially when we're laying off teachers and other people in the city who provide them services every day.'' 
 The ships are part of an international race that will start at Vigo, Spain, and end in Belfast, Northern Ireland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (91%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); BOAT RACING (77%); BUDGETS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); GALICIA, SPAIN (65%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHERN IRELAND (76%); SPAIN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



108 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3086 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Museums and Sites
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Through Aug. 16, ''Climate Change: The Threat to Life and a New Energy Future,'' an interactive display. Through May 25, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter.'' In the Imax theater through May 23, playing alternately every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Wild Ocean,'' about underwater survival of migrating species, and ''Dinosaurs Alive!,'' a search for dinosaur fossils. Timed tickets to ''Climate Change'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $24; $18 for students and 60+; $14 for ages 2 to 12. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for ages 2 to 12. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org.20090402 
 HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN Staten Island Historical Society. Every Wednesday through April 29 at 7:30 p.m., English country dancing; $5. Saturday at 7:30 and 9 p.m., eclectic acoustic music performed by the group Triboro (part of the Tavern Concerts series); $15; $12 for members; reservations required, Ext. 281. Open Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Additional tours on weekdays at 2:30 p.m. and on weekends at 2 and 3:30 p.m. 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town, Staten Island, (718) 351-1611, historicrichmondtown.org; $5; $4 for 65+; $3.50 for students and children 5 to 17; free for members and children under 5.20090402
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK Opening Saturday, ''Amsterdam/New Amsterdam: The Worlds of Henry Hudson,'' an exhibition in celebration of the 400th anniversary of Hudson's voyage, with paintings, maps, navigational instruments and other items. Related event: Saturday at 2 p.m., a family workshop for creating Dutch Delft tiles. Sunday at 2 p.m., a performance by Camille Ortiz, a mezzo-soprano, and Jeanne-Minette Cilliers, a pianist. Through May 3, ''Unseen Works From the Stettheimer Dollhouse,'' featuring 15 items that have not been on display before. Through June 9, ''Stoops of Manhattan -- Railings and Shadows: Paintings by Andrew Berrien Jones.'' Through May 17, ''Valentina: American Couture and the Cult of Celebrity'' includes clothing, accessories and photographs. Through April 12, ''Broken Glass: Photographs of the South Bronx by Ray Mortenson.'' Through April 22, ''Growing and Greening New York,'' an exploration of the ways to achieve environmental sustainability in keeping with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's initiatives known as PlaNYC 2030. Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays from 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families.20090402
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY Monday at 7 p.m., ''The Making of Guys and Dolls,'' a performance of songs from the Broadway show performed by Karen Mason, Michael McGrath, Jeff McCarthy and Garrett Long; Evans Haile is the musical director. Also appearing will be Jo Sullivan Loesser, widow of the composer Frank Loesser. Tickets, $75 to $500; proceeds benefit programs of the American Musicals Project; reservations: (212) 873-3400, Ext. 305. Through July 12, ''Abraham Lincoln in His Own Words: An Intimate View of Our Greatest President,'' an exhibition of speeches, letters and other documents. Through December 2010, ''First Flowers: Colonial Portraits at the New-York Historical Society.'' Through Oct. 2, ''Taking the Oath: The First Presidential Inauguration,'' an exhibition of artifacts from Washington's swearing-in, including a chair and a balustrade from Federal Hall, the site of the ceremony. Through May 3, ''A New President Takes Command,'' an exhibition on Franklin D. Roosevelt's first 100 days in office, with documents, photographs and newsreels, also featuring materials from the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, N.Y. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org; $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 1220090402
 ROCK AND ROLL HALL OF FAME ANNEX NYC With artifacts including photographs, vintage amplifiers and Bruce Springsteen's 1957 Chevy. Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. 76 Mercer Street, SoHo, (646) 786-6680, rockannex.com; Timed tickets: $24.50; $22.50 for 65+; $16.50 for those 4 to 12.20090402
 SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM Through January 2010, ''Treasures of a President: F.D.R. and the Sea,'' an exhibition based on Roosevelt's love of sailing and collecting, with prints, drawings, letters and ship models. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; extended hours to 9 p.m. on the third Friday of every month. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8786, southstreetseaportmuseum.org; $10, $8 for students and 65+; $5 for those 5 to 12 years old; free for those 4 and under and for everyone during extended hours on the third Friday of the month.20090402
 Gardens
 BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN Opening Saturday and running through May 10, ''Hanami,'' the annual cherry blossom display with related events. Through May 24, ''My Favorite Garden: Works by Monika E. de Vries Gohlke,'' an exhibition of etchings, paintings and drawings. Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; weekends and holidays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 1000 Washington Avenue, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, (718) 623-7200, bbg.org; $8; $4 for students and 65+; free for under 12 and members at all times and for 65+ on Fridays. Free Tuesdays, all day, and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to noon.20090402
 NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN Through April 12, ''The Orchid Show: Brazilian Modern,'' a display of thousands of flowers, set in a contemporary garden, with artwork. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tram tours daily, weather permitting, every 20 minutes. Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org; An all-garden pass is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $8 for children 2 to 12; free for members and children under 2. Grounds admission only: $6; $5 for Bronx residents; $3 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12; free for under 2 and for everyone all day on Wednesdays and from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking, $12.20090402
 SNUG HARBOR CULTURAL CENTER The Waintrob Collection, which includes the art of Georgia O'Keeffe, Henry Moore and many others, is on display at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center and Botanical Garden though July 19. 1000 Richmond Terrace, Staten Island, (718) 448-2500, snug-harbor.org; $3; $2 for students and 65+.20090402
 Events
 AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE PROGRAM On the first Sunday of every month, tours of the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, led by an educator and translated by a trained interpreter. This Sunday at various times, ''The Moores: An Irish Family in America,'' meeting at the Visitor Center at 108 Orchard Street. Lower East Side Tenement Museum, 108 Orchard Street, Lower East Side, (212) 431-0233, Ext. 232, tenement.org; $17; $13 students and 65+.20090402
 ARTS FOR TRANSIT Saturday at 11 p.m., Jean Shin leads a presentation at Flushing Town Hall and an artist tour of ''Celadon Remnants,'' her recent mosaic installation portraying the Korean diaspora at the Broadway station of the Long Island Rail Road. MetroCard required. Meeting place and reservations: 718-694-1867.mta.info/mta/museum; $20; $10 children ages 5 to 17.20090402
 BMW ART CARS Through Monday, an exhibition of cars turned into pieces of art in the mid-1970s by Andy Warhol, Frank Stella, Roy Lichtenstein and Robert Rauschenberg. Also on display is a section of a stadium-size installation created last November by the artist Robin Rhode, who used a specially equipped 2009 Z4 Roadster as a ''paintbrush''; with video clips of all of the artists. Daily, 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. Grand Central Terminal, Vanderbilt Hall; free.20090402
 CONVERSATIONS AS MELODIES Saturday at 5 p.m., a concert with performers from diverse traditions, including Bulgaria and Japan. Intersections, 274 Fifth Avenue, at 29th Street, (917) 284-0886, intersectionsinternational.org; free.20090402
 ELEVENTH ANNUAL TARTAN DAY PARADE Saturday at 2 p.m., on Avenue of the Americas, from 46th Street to 58th Streets, led by Alan Cumming, the Scottish actor, with bagpipers and Scottish-American organizations.tartanweek.com.20090402
 ROY HAYNES FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH BAND Saturday at 7:00 p.m., a concert featuring Jaleel Shaw (saxophone), Martin Bejerano (piano) and David Wong (bass); part of the 10th Annual Central Brooklyn Jazz Festival. Advance reservations required: (718) 569-1896 or cbjcjazz.org. Brooklyn Tech Auditorium, 20 Fort Greene Place, at South Elliot, Brooklyn, (718) 569-1896, cbjcjazz.org; $20 and $40; $10, students; $75, V.I.P. seating and reception.20090402
 'THE JEW ON TRIAL,' A CONVERSATION WITH ALBERT MAYSLES Sunday at 11 a.m., a panel discussion with Albert Maysles, film director and producer, about the case of Mendel Beilis, accused of murdering a Christian boy in Ukraine in 1913. Museum at Eldridge Street Synagogue, 12 Eldridge Street, (212) 219-0888, eldridgestreet.org; free.20090402
 KNITTING AND BOOK READING WITH KATE JACOBS Thursday at 7 p.m., Kate Jacobs, author of ''The Friday Night Knitting Club,'' will be reading from her new book ''Comfort Food''; knitting materials are provided. Borders Bookstore, 10 Columbus Circle, (212) 823-9775; free.20090402
 MURRAY HILL MARKET AT P.S. 116 An indoor and outdoor market, sponsored by the P.T.A. Sundays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. East 32nd Street, at Second Avenue; free.20090402
 NEW YORK SOCIETY LIBRARY Through Dec. 31, ''The President's Wife and the Librarian,'' an exhibition of correspondence between Edith Kermit Roosevelt and Marion King. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. New York Society Library, 53 East 79th Street, (212) 288-5232; free.20090402
 OPENING DAY LITTLE LEAGUE PARADE Saturday at 10 a.m., Seventh Avenue and Carroll Street to Prospect Park Bandshell, Brooklyn.Free.20090402
 PICTURING THE SHOAH FILM SERIES A series of films that explore how movies represent the Holocaust from unexpected angles. Sunday at 2 p.m., Jean-Luc Godard's ''In Praise of Love,'' is screened. See Web site for schedule. Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 294-8301, cjh.org; $10.20090402
 POETS HOUSE SHOWCASE Opening reception, Saturday from 1 to 4 p.m., including a display of more than 2,000 titles of new poetry and poetry-related books published in the last year (through April 11). New York Public Library, Jefferson Market Branch, 425 Sixth Avenue, at 10th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 243-4334, poetshouse.org; free.20090402
 REFLECTIONS ON JAPANESE STYLE: SHERMAN E. LEE AND THE COLLECTING OF JAPANESE ART Wednesday at 7 p.m., a talk by Samuel C. Morse, professor of the history of art and Asian languages and civilizations at Amherst College, in conjunction with the current exhibition ''Asian Journeys: Collecting Art in Postwar America.'' Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org; Lecture: $12; $10 for students and 65+. Museum: $10; $7 for 65+; $5 for students.20090402
 SKYSCRAPER MUSEUM FIFTH ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION Saturday, noon to 6 p.m., the museum offers free admission to tour its exhibition, ''Vertical Cities: Hong Kong/New York.'' Skyscraper Museum, 39 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-6324, skyscraper.org.20090402
 VAN CORTLANDT PARK, NATURE PHOTOGRAPHY Sunday at 10 a.m., the Urban Park Rangers will help to hone your photography skills. Meeting at the Van Cortlandt Nature Center, reachable from the park entrance at West 246th Street and Broadway in the Bronx. Bring your own camera.(718) 548-0912, nyc.gov/parks/rangers; free.20090402
 'TRACKING THE CREDIT CRISIS: A TIMELINE' A display and video presentation documenting the financial crisis, with updates as they occur. Open Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Museum of American Finance, 48 Wall Street, at William Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 908-4110, moaf.org; $8, $5 for children 7 and older, students and 62+; 6 and under, free.20090402
 Spoken Word
 AUTHOR AT THE LIBRARY: DENNIS LEHANE Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., Mr. Lehane reads from his new book, ''The Given Day.'' Mid-Manhattan Library, 455 Fifth Avenue, at 40th Street, (212) 340-0833, nypl.org; free.20090402
 MCNALLY JACKSON BOOKS Monday at 6 p.m., a discussion on America in the wake of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., with Clay Risen, author of ''A Nation on Fire,'' and the historians Brian Purnell and Kevin Kruse. Thursday at 7 p.m., Erica Jong introduces her new collection of poetry, ''Love Comes First.'' 52 Prince Street, (212) 274-1160, mcnallyjackson.com; Both events are free.20090402
 POEMS & PINTS Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., a reading featuring Sophie Cabot Black and Sharon Olds. Fraunces Tavern, 54 Pearl Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 219-9401, Ext. 118; free.20090402
 'REMAKING WARSAW: ARCHITECTURE AND MEMORY IN THE POLISH CAPITAL, 1943-2009' Thursday at 6 p.m., a lecture by David Crowley of the Royal College of Art in London. Deutsches Haus, New York University, 42 Washington Mews, at University Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-8663, nyu.edu/deutscheshaus; free.20090402
 SUNDAYS AT JASA Sunday at noon, a discussion of ''Rage and Glory: The Volatile Life and Career of George C. Scott,'' by David Sheward, with John Rainer, actor, director and teacher. Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, John Jay College, 899 Tenth Avenue, Manhattan, (212) 273-5304; $3 suggested donation; free for members.20090402
 THE THIRD MIND LIVE: MARINA ABRAMOVIC Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., this performance artist discusses her series, ''Night Sea Crossing.'' Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3587, guggenheim.org; $30, $25 for members, $10 for students under 25.20090402
 Walking Tours
 BERNIE'S NEW YORK Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Astor Place/East Village -- The Old and the New,'' meeting on the southeast corner of East 11th Street and Second Avenue.(718) 655-1883; $15.20090402
 BOWERY AND CANAL WALKING TOURS Sunday at 1 p.m., ''New York in the Civil War,'' explores the city's role during the war and the war's impact on the city, meeting in front of City Hall Park, Broadway and Park Row, Lower Manhattan.(917) 602-3543; $15, $12 for students and 65+.20090402
 FORT GREENE WALKING TOURS Two tours of this Brooklyn neighborhood, both on Saturday at 1 p.m. The first, sponsored by the Center for the Urban Environment, will meet in front of Cuyler Gore Park, at Fulton Street and Greene Avenue; $13, $10 for members, $8 for students; (718) 788-8500, Ext. 260. The other, led by Big Onion Walking Tours, will meet on the southeast corner of Lafayette and Flatbush Avenues; $15, $12 for students, 63+ and members of the New-York Historical Society; (212) 439-1090.20090402
 IN DEPTH WALKING TOURS Saturday at 11 a.m., ''Ayn Rand's Fifth Avenue,'' meeting at the Columbus monument in Columbus Circle.(917) 607-9019; $20.20090402
 HENRY JAMES'S NEW YORK Sunday at 1:30 p.m., a tour of literary sites and writers' residences in Greenwich Village, sponsored by the Greenwich Village Societyfor Historic Preservation and led by Joyce Gold.(212) 475-9585, Ext. 35, gvshp.org; $10; free for members of the Society and the Merchant's House Museum. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 475-9585, Ext. 35.20090402
 JEWISH LOWER EAST SIDE Two pre-Passover tours on Sunday at 1 p.m. Big Onion Walking Tours will meet on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets; $15, $12 for students and 63+; (212) 439-1090; bigonion.com. New York Talks and Walks will meet in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street; $15 by credit card, $20 in cash; (888) 377-4455; newyorktalksandwalks.com.20090402
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., a tour in Brooklyn, with stops in Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill. Every Monday at 2 p.m., a black history tour of Bedford-Stuyvesant. All tours meet in front of the New York Marriott, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn. Reservations are required.(718) 789-0430; each, $25.20090402
 OUTDOORS CLUB Sunday at 12:45 p.m., an East River Walk, meeting at the Rusk Institute, First Avenue and 34th Street and ending at the South Street Seaport. Also on Sunday at 5 p.m., a walk across the Brooklyn Bridge and a tour of the Brooklyn Promenade, with dinner in Brooklyn Heights; meets near the fountain in City Hall Park. Both are canceled if it rains.(212) 348-5344; each, $3.20090402
 SHOREWALKERS Saturday at 10:15 a.m., a 6.5-mile hike in the Staten Island Greenbelt, meeting in the waiting room of the Staten Island Ferry Terminal in Lower Manhattan; (718) 435-4994. Take along lunch and water.shorewalkers.org; donations accepted.20090402
 A TOUR GROWS IN BROOKLYN Daily walking tours at noon of the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Park Slope and nearby Prospect Park. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 209-3370.brooklynwalkingtour.com; $30, $15 for children, including lunch.20090402
 URBAN PARK RANGERS Sunday, two walks with the Urban Park Rangers. At 11 a.m., hike through Manhattan's oldest natural forest, meeting at Inwood Hill Park Nature Center, Inwood; at 1 p.m., travel through the tunnels and hidden chambers of Fort Totten with the Urban Park Rangers, meeting at Fort Totten Visitors Center, Ordinance and Lee Road, Queens, (718) 352-1769, nyc.gov/parks/rangers; free.20090402
 WALKABOUT Sunday at 1 p.m., a tour of Greenwich Village, led by James Staal, meeting at Father Demo Square, Carmine Street and Avenue of the Americas.(917) 693-6495; $15.20090402
 Recreation
 CITY PARKS FOUNDATION RUN FOR THE PARKS FOUR-MILE AND KIDS' RACES Sunday in Central Park. At 8 a.m., a four-mile run beginning on the East Drive, south of 72nd Street; children's races begin at 9 a.m. on the Center Road, south of the 72nd Street Transverse.(212) 860-4455, nyrr.org. Advance registration: $35; $22 for members; $15 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $40; $25 for members; $20 for 18 and younger and 62+. Kids' races: $6 in advance, $8 on Sunday.20090402

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); FILM (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); MUSIC (69%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (69%); HAUTE COUTURE (66%); CELEBRITIES (64%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); STATEN ISLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



109 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: New Rise In Rates For Water Is Expected

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
New York City residents should brace for another double-digit increase in their water rates, even though they are conserving more water than ever before.
 That is the mixed message that residents are likely to hear on Friday, when the New York City Water Board is expected to raise water and sewer rates by 14 percent, while water consumption is projected, thanks to the recession, to hit its lowest point since the 1960s.
 Customers are billed based on the amount of water they use. So a drop in consumption reduces the amount of revenue collected by the city to cover the operating costs of the water and sewer system -- compounding rising costs for other expenses like fuel and capital improvements, according to Steven W. Lawitts, acting commissioner of the city's Department of Environmental Protection. 
 Over the last few months, consumption has dropped dramatically -- as much as 7 percent, compared with a normal decline of 1 percent through conservation, Mr. Lawitts said in an interview, adding that residents seemed to be cutting down on water during the recession in much the same way they are cutting back on everything. It also has not helped, Mr. Lawitts said, that fewer people are working in offices and fewer tourists and business travelers are checking into the city's hotels.
 Over all, the city is on pace to collect roughly $80 million less in water bill revenues than in previous years. And that decline is one reason, city officials said, that the water board is expected to consider a rate increase similar to the 14.5 percent increase in 2008, which was the largest since 1992.
 For the average single-family homeowner, a 14 percent increase would mean a new annual bill of roughly $910, compared with the current bill of about $800. ''If we hadn't had this decline, we would likely not need as large a rate increase next year,'' Mr. Lawitts said. The increase, if passed, would take effect on July 1.
 Water rates have become an increasingly contentious issue in recent years. Last year, the city's Independent Budget Office calculated that water rates had risen a cumulative 77 percent since 2001.
 City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., who is considered a probable opponent for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in the November election, held a news conference this week criticizing the city for failing to produce a study on water rates that was promised after the 14.5 percent increase. He is expected to testify at the water board meeting on Friday.
 The Department of Environmental Protection has been questioned, as well, about its operations. Because the agency is financed chiefly by water bills, it has been largely cushioned from the steep budget cuts ordered by Mr. Bloomberg to help the city close a multibillion-dollar deficit. The Daily News reported recently that the agency had approved $300,000 in raises to 41 employees since January.
 But city officials say that the Bloomberg administration is pushing ahead with modernization and infrastructure programs that will ultimately save the city -- and consumers -- much more money.
 As one example, the city recently unveiled the latest technology to upgrade its record-keeping system to help the city collect tens of millions of dollars in overdue water bills. The city is also investing billions in major projects, including the Third Water Tunnel, which will bring fresh water from upstate reservoirs, and the Croton Water Filtration Plant, which will be capable of purifying 300 million gallons of water a day.
 Mr. Lawitts stressed that the bottom line was still that it pays to conserve, because that reduces wastewater, and because it makes environmental sense. ''The less water we have to supply, the better protected we are in the future against the effects of climate change, and against possible droughts,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (91%); UTILITY RATES (91%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); WATER CONSUMPTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSUMPTION (76%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



110 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: The Fab Five, Together Again

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL; Thayer Evans in Detroit and Mike Ogle in New York contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
In many ways, the Michigan basketball recruiting class known as the Fab Five will be forever young. Black socks pulled high, baggy shorts sagging low and cocksure looks on their baby faces, the most heralded freshman class in college basketball history stormed onto the American stage in 1992 by becoming the first all-freshman starting five to reach the Final Four. 
 But as the years passed, the grand jury testimony was heard and the N.C.A.A. erased their accomplishments, the Fab Five image has threaded that uncomfortable line between immortal and infamous. 
 The banners from the 1992 and 1993 Final Fours no longer hang at Michigan's Crisler Arena. A federal investigation said that Chris Webber took $280,000 from Ed Martin, a local bookmaker and booster who pleaded guilty to conspiracy as a result of the inquiry. (Martin's son, Carlton, said this week in a phone interview that the amount ''could have been $100,000 to $200,000 higher.'' Webber has said that he took far less, and repaid the money.) 
 Nearly two decades after their high point, the Fab Five's legacy has gone from black socks to black marks, their swagger replaced by the shame of bequeathing the Michigan basketball program a generation of chaos. 
 The Fab Five -- Webber, Jalen Rose, Juwan Howard, Jimmy King and Ray Jackson -- were originally to be in Detroit this weekend for what was being billed as their first public reunion since they lost the 1993 N.C.A.A. title game to North Carolina. 
 The event was scheduled at a local casino with tickets available for $60 and $100, but the location has been shifted to a lounge and the event is now billed as ''The Big Ten All-Star Celebration'' for a price of $30. 
 Of the Fab Five players, King said Thursday that Jackson would be unable to attend the event.
 ''There's a lot to celebrate by a reunion of the Fab Five, but there's also a lot to reflect upon as well,'' said Rick Convertino, the former assistant United States attorney who prosecuted the case against Ed Martin, who died in 2003 as he awaited sentencing. ''It seems to me as kind of a picture of where college sports is and what's become of college sports.'' 
 The Fab Five reunion seems fitting, considering that Connecticut has reached the Final Four while reports of possible recruiting violations swirl around it. Yahoo Sports reported that the Huskies used a former agent accused of stealing $1 million from the former UConn star Richard Hamilton to lure two recruits. 
 At a time when N.C.A.A. enforcement seems impotent, the salary for top coaches has approached $4 million and player agents and middlemen are more prevalent than ever, the overriding question is whether it is possible to run a successful program without breaking the rules. 
 ''We're a country that is rocked economically to the core because we trusted,'' DePaul Coach Jerry Wainwright said. ''If sports goes that way, we're all going to be disappointed too.''
 The publicity, excitement and student application increases that accompany a phenomenon like the Fab Five prompts universities to spend lavishly on athletics. The Fab Five were so popular that their hallmark droopy shorts and black Nikes became omnipresent. Wainwright said that the Fab Five's success, especially for Nike, blended the business side of college sports with the athletic side for the first time on a large scale. 
 James Duderstadt, Michigan's former president, remembers the president of Temple University calling him after a game and saying that he was offended that the players wore all black socks. 
 ''They brought a completely new style, an improvisational style of basketball that offended many members of the media and some other university presidents,'' Duderstadt said in a phone interview. 
 Problems accompanied the fame and attention. The final tally of N.C.A.A. penalties included scholarship reductions for four years, a two-year postseason ban, four years' probation for the program, and Webber and three other Michigan players being unable to associate with the program until 2013.
 If the Fab Five wanted to hold their reunion on campus, they essentially could not. King, who broadcasts Michigan games on the radio, said he believes it will happen. King was asked if people should believe that he and the other players took no money. ''Have you heard my name with anything?'' he asked.
 The N.C.A.A. infractions chairman, Tom Yeager, called Michigan's case ''one of the three or four most egregious violations of N.C.A.A. bylaws in the history of the association.''
 Steve Fisher, the coach who recruited the Fab Five, has said that he knew nothing about the hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, cars and clothes that Martin lavished on Webber and other Michigan basketball players. Now the coach at San Diego State, Fisher's biography says he coached the Fab Five through ''one of the most glamorous periods in college basketball history.'' 
 Duderstadt recalled that the Fab Five brought on a turbulent era at Michigan. 
 ''Steve realized that he was riding a tornado,'' Duderstadt said. ''This was a high-risk program. I personally believe he did not have any evidence of wrongdoing. But I can also believe there were many nights he didn't sleep well because he didn't have any idea what was going on.'' 
 In total, the federal investigation found that Martin gave a combined $616,000 to Webber and to three athletes who played for Michigan after Webber did -- Robert Traylor, Maurice Taylor and Louis Bullock. Originally indicted for perjury in the case, Webber wound up pleading guilty to a misdemeanor and performing community service.
 Looking back, administrators at Michigan admit to being naive. 
 ''I recognize that we too were caught up in the excitement,'' said Percy Bates, a Michigan professor who still serves as the university's faculty athletic representative. ''Those of us who should have been paying more attention, we did not pay the attention that we might have.''
 As the Fab Five's on-court accomplishments are remembered this weekend, Carlton Martin said his father deserves some of the credit. Ed Martin died of a pulmonary embolism, and his son said that his father's friends maintain that the stress from the scandal killed him. 
 ''It's impossible to get the credit from the position he was in as far as the Fab Five or any of their success,'' Carlton Martin said of his father. ''But he sure is definitely deserving of some of it. Not all of it. Nowhere near that, but just to be the glue that kept some things together.''
 The same problems that plagued Michigan in the early 1990s are still prevalent in college athletics. And the programs that are trying to do things the right way appear to be dwindling. 
 ''I think it's a wonderful challenge to try to win within the spirit of the N.C.A.A. rules,'' said Lloyd Carr, the former Michigan football coach. ''I think there's a lot of people trying to do that. But I think the real issue is the fact that the N.C.A.A. is fundamentally not equipped to enforce the rules that they have. And therefore, in many ways, it's not a level playing field.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michigan's Fab Five, from left in 1991, Jimmy King, Juwan Howard, Chris Webber, Jalen Rose and Ray Jackson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CONSPIRACY (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TESTIMONY (71%); SENTENCING (71%); GRAND JURY (71%); WITNESSES (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (69%); LARCENY & THEFT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



111 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1760 words

HEADLINE: A House Divided

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
WITH the economy in turmoil and the real estate boom a distant memory, some people are now looking to sell their vacation homes. 
 Well, at least parts of them. 
 Fractional ownership -- a concept that gained popularity during the height of the real estate market as companies like Ritz-Carlton and Fairmont offered buyers an option that was a step up from timeshares -- has trickled down to individual homeowners.
 Teaming up with a friend to buy a beach house or ski cabin is nothing new, of course, but these owners are trying to trim the cost of mortgage payments, insurance, taxes and maintenance, all while tapping into the equity in the house by selling off multiple stakes in their property. 
 Sellers can be motivated by several factors, said Paula Gold-Nocella, a broker and the founder of Global Quarters, which focuses on marketing and selling fractional properties. ''They want to retain ownership and access the equity, but refinancing might not be an option,'' she said. ''Some would like debt relief. Often they don't use the house as much as they thought, so why not get some cash back in their pocket?'' 
 In adopting the fractional model, the owners are taking a page from the hospitality companies, which sold stakes in homes that come with higher-end amenities, multiple weeks of use and -- unlike some timeshares -- deeds.
 In Hernando Beach, Fla., Jason Felts has his four-bedroom gulf-front house, complete with a boat slip, on the market for whole ownership for $849,000 and for sale in one-seventh shares for $149,999 each. His preference is to sell it as a fractional, he said.
 ''In a perfect world we would close six fractions and keep one,'' said Mr. Felts, who has owned the home since 2005 and is marketing it on his Web site, www.gulfowner.com. ''We enjoy going to the house and would love to keep it, but in this economy it is tough to justify it. We would like to take some money off the table.'' 
 Even sellers who are not financially pinched are considering fractional sales as an option. ''They are focused more on the cost of living,'' said Andy Sirkin, a lawyer who splits his time between San Francisco and Paris, and advises on structuring property for shared ownership through his firm, Sirkin Paul Associates. ''They may be looking at the budget and think, 'We need to cut back somewhere.' This may be relatively painless.'' 
 In the summer of 2007, Daljit S. Hundal bought a four-bedroom house complete with caretaker's quarters, nestled 1,200 feet above the Pacific Ocean in Dominical, Costa Rica. His intent was to visit his 17-acre property, adjacent to a wildlife-filled nature preserve, six or seven times a year from his home in northern Virginia, offer it to family and friends for vacations, and eventually make a permanent move to the country. 
 Now Mr. Hundal, finding that he is not using the house as much as he originally planned to, is considering selling a 49 percent stake in the property, divided into three shares, to split the usage and cost of ownership of the house among a small group of strangers. 
 ''Obviously times have changed,'' said Mr. Hundal, noting that his mortgage lender in Costa Rica doesn't offer a home equity line of credit on the house. ''If I had not lost so much money in the stock market, I would not be offering it for fractional ownership. I would just have friends and relatives fly down to use it.''
 PREPARING to sell a portion of a house isn't as seamless as putting the entire house on the market for whole ownership. For one thing, insurance can prove difficult to obtain from an existing provider, so sellers may have to shop around for a new policy. There are also local, state and, in the case of foreign countries, national laws to contend with when breaking up a property for sale. Homeowner association rules may affect the sale, while state laws covering timeshares may require an owner to register with the state and even submit all advertising for the property for approval. As a result, an owner would very likely seek to avoid state timeshare rules by limiting the number of shares.
 On Hawaii's Big Island, Brian Cameron divided his vacation house in Kona into one-sixth shares that include a minimum 60 days of use to avoid falling under the state's timeshare regulations. ''You have to buy in two-month time frames, but in reality we will try to put a group together that can swap weeks amongst themselves,'' said Mr. Cameron, who aims to retain one share of the home, which he has owned for the last 10 years.
 In addition to wanting to pull some equity out of the house, which is being marketed on www.newwestpropertiesllc.com, there is an emotional factor behind opting for fractional ownership, he said. ''As much as we have considered selling the entire property, it is hard to part with those great memories,'' said Mr. Cameron, despite the fact that in recent years his family has made fewer and fewer trips to Hawaii from their home in Santa Rosa, Calif. ''We love the house and we want to hang onto it.''
 Using Mr. Sirkin's consulting services, Mr. Cameron prepared the house to be sold in shares priced at $325,000 to $350,000. He now has a 55-page document that covers basics like cleaning services and when to replace the couch to bigger issues including the building of a reserve fund and rules on how owners can sell their shares. He has also opted to offer financing to buyers. 
 ''Two years ago I wouldn't have been interested in financing, but in the current credit market it is foolish not to talk about it,'' he said. ''I'm talking to one family now who is very interested, and we'd do seller financing with them. They would put down $125,000, and we'll finance $200,000 for two years.''
 In fact, getting around the financing issue can be a challenge for some sellers. Fractional sellers who have taken their properties off the market often cite mortgages as a major roadblock to completing sales.
 Bob Bodman stopped marketing his four-bedroom fractional house in Truckee, Calif., near Lake Tahoe last November, after more than a year of showings but no sales. ''We probably had a couple of dozen interested to somewhat interested parties, but we sold nothing,'' Mr. Bodman said. ''The barrier to selling is if there is any debt on the property you have to clear the mortgage before you can close. You have to line up a couple of sales before you can do that, and it threw everyone a bit of a curve.'' 
 While Mr. Bodman didn't sell any shares, he said he did learn enough about setting up a home as a fractional to start his own Web site, FractionalDocuments.com, which sells boilerplate agreements covering the purchase, management and use plan. ''I got more calls on where I got my documents than calls interested in buying the house,'' he said.
 A mortgage on a house can pose a challenge to the owner who wants to get the residence sold as a fractional. However, there are ways around the financing issue. Mr. Sirkin, the fractional consultant, said that in addition to making deals in which the current mortgage is paid off, he has structured deals that allow the existing mortgage to be kept on the property. ''We have done sales where the existing loan is assumable by buyers,'' Mr. Sirkin said. ''Some lenders say because you are staying in the house we don't mind if you bring in other owners,'' he said, but he noted that the type of loan, the lender and other factors can affect whether this is possible. During the height of the real estate market, most buyers weren't interested in securing a loan, he said, but the ability to offer financing in a tight credit market may give buyers an edge. ''Now more fractional buyers want financing,'' he said. 
 Like the larger real estate market, fractional homes have faced an increasingly tough sales environment in recent months. Now, fractional sellers may also find that they are competing with even less expensive local real estate. Robert Vicino, president of Fractional Villas, a consultant and management company based in Del Mar, Calif., that structures homes for fractional ownership and works with buyers interested in such deals, said that his firm had seen numerous requests from owners in Florida, but that he was cautious about entering that market. ''We would be competing with foreclosures that are 10 to 20 cents on the dollar,'' he said. ''We might also be dealing with problematic homeowners' associations where fees aren't being paid.'' 
 In some areas, fractional sellers are competing against larger shared-ownership developments. Bruce Chadbourne built a three-bedroom house, with a one-room guesthouse, in Calistoga, Calif., on the northern end of Napa Valley, that is on the market in quarter shares that secure three months of annual use. The home, which is also available for whole ownership, is being marketed on his real estate agent's Web site, www.homesbyjacqueline.com.
 The shares, at $675,000, are more expensive than the one-tenth shares of fractional homes at the nearby Calistoga Ranch, a luxury resort, but Mr. Chadbourne's shares include more guaranteed use. Mr. Chadbourne admits that he can't match all of the amenities of the resort, of course, but that he can offer his buyers similar comforts. ''I don't have a restaurant,'' he said, ''but I can provide chef service and I can arrange wine tastings.'' 
 OWNERS of fractional shares in individual homes insist that a shared stake can be ideal for long-term ownership. Ed and Ginger Booker of Greensboro, N.C., have owned part of a vacation house in the Fort Fisher area of Kure Beach, N.C., for two decades. ''We built an oceanfront house in 1988 and we called it an equity share,'' Mr. Booker said. ''We brought in family and friends to buy shares.'' Mr. Booker owns two one-thirteenth shares in the house, while his wife owns one share. 
 Over the years, use of the house has been governed by the rules that Mr. Booker compiled. ''I wrote an operation manual that gives, in excruciating detail, all the rules and even details on the color of the carpet fibers,'' Mr. Booker said. ''It is the bible, so to speak.''
 ''It has worked beautifully for us over 20 years,'' he said, noting that the biggest gripe at the last annual owners meeting concerned sand not being brushed off beach chairs and toys before being stowed in the house.
 Now the Bookers are trying to sell two of their shares, each priced at $154,900, on their Web site www.beachfractional.net. But they aren't ready to completely walk away from the house, said Mr. Booker. ''We still hope to keep one share.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WILLING SHARERS: Above, Ed and Ginger Booker in their home in Kure Beach, N.C. They sold shares in the house when they built in 1988. Below, Jason Felts is selling shares in his Hernando Beach, Fla., home.(PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, BROWNIE HARRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES0(D6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY THOMAS FUCHS)(D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BEACHES (75%); COST OF LIVING (73%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



112 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 2300 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Film Series
 THE CHELSEA HOTEL ON FILM (Thursday) This bohemian enclave on West 23rd Street has been featured in countless films. Here is a generous selection, beginning on Thursday at 7:15 p.m. with Alex Cox's brilliant and disturbing ''Sid and Nancy,'' starring Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb as one of the most tragic couples in the Chelsea's history, the punk rocker Sid Vicious and his companion Nancy Spungen. At 9:30 p.m. there's a program of three shorts -- ''Teepee Video Space Troupe: the Early Years'' (1971), ''Savage/Love'' (1981) and ''Tongues'' (1982) -- by the filmmaker Shirley Clarke, who spent the last years of her career living and working in a Chelsea Hotel penthouse. Highlights for next weekend include a newly restored late work, ''Film #23,'' by the Chelsea resident Harry Smith, and a video interview with Smith conducted by Michel Auder. (Through April 12.) Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $9. (Dave Kehr)20090402 
 THE CINEMA ACCORDING TO JACKIE RAYNAL (Tuesday) A unique figure in film culture both in France (where she worked as an editor on several New Wave classics) and in New York (where she directed films of her own while programming the Bleeker Street and Carnegie Hall theaters), Ms. Raynal will be present on four consecutive Tuesdays (through April 28) to screen and discuss a few of the films that have touched her life. The opening program combines the Eric Rohmer and Jean Rouch segments from the 1965 anthology film ''Six in Paris'' with Mr. Rohmer's 1967 feature ''La Collectionneuse'' -- all of which were edited by Ms. Raynal. French Institute Alliance Francaise, Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100, fiaf.org; $10. (Kehr)20090402
 'FALLEN CHAMP: THE UNTOLD STORY OF MIKE TYSON' (Tuesday) The Stranger Than Fiction series at the IFC Center offers Barbara Kopple's 1993 documentary on Mr. Tyson, originally broadcast on NBC. Ms. Kopple will be present for the 8 p.m. screening. IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $15. (Kehr)20090402
 2009 NEW YORK AFRICAN FILM FESTIVAL (Wednesday and Thursday) There are 25 films included in this weeklong survey of new films from Africa, opening on Wednesday with ''Behind the Rainbow,'' Jihan El-Tahri's documentary history of the governing African National Congress in South Africa. Other highlights include ''Jerusalema,'' Ralph Ziman's South African fiction film about a Sowetan entrepreneur working his way up the ladder of the underworld; ''Kinshasa Palace,'' a look at one family caught up in the African diaspora, directed by Jose Laplaine of Congo; and ''The Fighting Spirit,'' George Amponsah's study of three boxers (two men and a woman) from an impoverished district in Ghana. (Through April 14.) Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr)20090402
 'TYSON' (Monday) The director James Toback will be present to introduce his new documentary about the heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson, shown here in an advance look before its commercial opening on April 24. Sponsored by the Museum of the Moving Image. At 8 p.m., AMC Loews 34th Street Theater, 312 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (718) 784-4520, movingimage.us; $18. (Kehr)20090402
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. 
 'AMERICAN SWING' (No rating, 1:21) The life and death of the notorious Manhattan swingers' club Plato's Retreat and of its mastermind, Larry Levenson, is examined with more nostalgia than rancor.(Stephen Holden)20090402
 'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk.(Manohla Dargis)20090402
 'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC'(PG, 1:40) Like the flailing American economy, this comedy with Isla Fisher wants to eat its conspicuous-consumption cake and have its spiritual redemption too.(Dargis)20090402
 'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE'(R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel.(Dargis)20090402
 'CORALINE' (PG, 1:40) Henry Selick's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novel is exquisitely beautiful and creepy in the best ways.(A. O. Scott)20090402
 'THE COUNTRY TEACHER' (No rating, 1:53, in Czech) A closeted gay teacher of natural sciences in Czechoslovakia leaves Prague to take a job at a school in a rural farming village. Both his subject and the rustic environment play into the movie's contemplation of the diversity of nature as it applies to human behavior, especially sexuality.(Holden)20090402
 'DOUBT'(PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser.(Dargis)20090402
 'DUPLICITY' (PG-13, 2:05) Julia Roberts and Clive Owen in a lively caper from the writer-director Tony Gilroy. It's a spy movie wrapped in a sex comedy, or perhaps vice versa. As a bonus, Paul Giamatti and Tom Wilkinson play dueling chief executives, whose opening-title fisticuffs are worth the price of a ticket.(Scott)20090402
 'THE EDUCATION OF CHARLIE BANKS' (R, 1:41) Set in the early 1980s, this directing debut of Fred Durst (the former frontman of the band Limp Bizkit) follows an awkward, middle-class teenager (Jesse Eisenberg), whose Ivy League life is disrupted by a dangerously volatile former acquaintance (Jason Ritter). Drawing a firm line between blue blood and blue collar, the director turns a nostalgic coming-of-age drama into a prickly examination of the sturdiness of class boundaries and the illusion of inclusion.(Jeannette Catsoulis)20090402
 'EVERLASTING MOMENTS' (No rating, 2:11, in Swedish) The story, about a working-class wife and mother in early-20th-century Sweden who finds a measure of fulfillment by mastering the art of photography, is a bit familiar and sentimental, but strong acting and an understated visual elegance from the director Jan Troell make this a better-than-average literary costume drama.(Scott)20090402
 'GOMORRAH' (No rating, 2:15, in Italian) Based on the 2006 expose of the same title by the Italian journalist Roberto Saviano, this corrosive, ferociously unsentimental fictionalized look at organized crime from the director Matteo Garrone is also a bracing corrective to the sentimentalized Mafia thug popularized on both the big and small screens.(Dargis)20090402
 'GOODBYE SOLO' (No rating, 1:31) Ramin Bahrani's third feature (after ''Man Push Cart'' and ''Chop Shop'') is haunting, humane and very nearly perfect. The simple story of a Winston-Salem cab driver's unlikely friendship with an older passenger becomes something like a philosophical fable without ever sacrificing its rough, lived-in realism.(Scott)20090402
 'THE GREAT BUCK HOWARD' (PG, 1:27) John Malkovich stars as the title character in this agreeable show business satire with a warm heart, inspired by the career of the Amazing Kreskin, the 1970s television mind reader who still pops up on the tube now and then.(Holden)20090402
 'GUEST OF CINDY SHERMAN' (No rating, 1:28) This breezy yet tender documentary chronicles the relationship between its director, the host of a 1990s public access show about the art world, and one of his subjects and lovers, the photographer Cindy Sherman.(Nathan Lee)20090402
 'THE HAUNTING IN CONNECTICUT' (PG-13, 1:32) Spinning another based-on-actual-events tale of a family (headed by Virginia Madsen and Martin Donovan) ejected from its home by angry spirits, Peter Cornwell's first feature counters its screeching score with genuinely grisly images. But stories like this need hush to work, and the result is a movie that gives you the creeps, the giggles and the groans in almost equal measure.(Catsoulis)20090402
 'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU'(PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I.(Dargis)20090402
 'HUNGER' (No rating, 1:36) The British artist Steve McQueen, making his debut as a film director, recreates events leading up the I.R.A. hunger strikes of the early 1980s in somber, meticulous detail. The result is a curiously calm study in bodily extremity and political extremism.(Scott)20090402
 'I LOVE YOU, MAN' (R, 1:45) Judd Apatow's name isn't in the credits, but his DNA is all over John Hamburg's fitfully funny bromance about a wuss (Paul Rudd) who mans up by befriending a guy's guy (Jason Segel).(Dargis)20090402
 'KNOWING' (PG-13, 2:01) Nicolas Cage plays an astrophysicist who discovers a 50-year-old cipher, transcribed by a schoolgirl and buried in a time capsule, that seems to predict every major disaster up to and including the end of the world. The movie itself, which never seems to end, is catastrophe enough.(Scott)20090402
 'LET THE RIGHT ONE IN' (No rating, 1:54, in Swedish) A charming and chilling Swedish love story directed by Tomas Alfredson about a lonely boy and the girl next door who may just happen to be a vampire.(Dargis)20090402
 'MILK'(R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness.(Scott)20090402
 'MONSTERS VS. ALIENS'(PG, 1:34) The battle no one has been waiting for, but a pleasant enough showcase for pop-culture riffing and 3-D animation effects.(Scott)20090402
 'RACE TO WITCH MOUNTAIN' (PG, 1:39) A passable kiddie-action movie, with Dwayne Johnson as a Las Vegas cab driver and ex-convict who becomes the unlikely protector of two blond alien children.(Scott)20090402
 'THE READER'(R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs.(Dargis)20090402
 'REVOLUTIONARY ROAD'(R, 1:59) Sam Mendes directs Kate Winslet and a fine Leonardo DiCaprio in a waxworks edition of the corrosive, furiously unsentimental novel by Richard Yates about an unhappy marriage in the mid-1950s.(Dargis)20090402
 'SHALL WE KISS?'(No rating, 1:42, in French) Dangerous liaisons with good intentions: the matchmaking games in this French romantic comedy may backfire, but nobody is seriously hurt. The players in this mouth-watering Gallic souffle are so attractive, well mannered and comfortably grounded in the bourgeois world that you needn't fear for their well-being, minor heartaches notwithstanding.(Holden)20090402
 'SIN NOMBRE' (R, 1:36, in Spanish) Two teenagers, one Honduran, one Mexican, travel together in a story about geographic and moral border crossings from the young American Cary Joji Fukunaga.(Dargis)20090402
 'SUNSHINE CLEANING' (R, 1:32) Or better, ''Sundance Recycling,'' since every available indie cliche is thrown into this hapless comedy-drama. Not even the combined charms of Emily Blunt, Amy Adams and Alan Arkin can save it.(Scott)20090402
 'TOKYO SONATA' (PG-13, 1:59) A distinctly eccentric variant on the family melodrama from Kiyoshi Kurosawa, a genius of dread who brings more than a touch of horror to this story of a salaryman whose downsizing sets off a series of cataclysmic events.(Dargis)20090402
 'TULPAN'(No rating, 1:40, in Kazakh and Russian) A coming-of-age story set on a windblown steppe in Kazakhstan. Sheer poetry.(Scott)20090402
 '12 ROUNDS' (PG-13, 1:52) An extremely frantic movie in which nothing of interest happens.(Lee)20090402
 'TWO LOVERS' (R, 1:48) A ripe, old-school romantic melodrama from James Gray, with Joaquin Phoenix as a young Brooklyn man torn between the pull of duty and the dream of escape, and also between the title figures, played by Vinessa Shaw and Gwyneth Paltrow. With Isabella Rossellini as a Jewish mother beyond Alexander Portnoy's wildest dreams.(Scott)20090402
 'TYLER PERRY'S MADEA GOES TO JAIL'(PG-13, 1:43) Not that jail can contain her, though neither can Mr. Perry's somewhat threadbare melodrama-meets-comedy formula.(Scott)20090402
 'VALENTINO: THE LAST EMPEROR' (No rating, 1:36, in English, Italian and French) Watching the portrait of the extravagant lifestyle of this Italian fashion designer is a little like gorging on chocolate and champagne until that queasy moment arrives when you realize you've consumed far too much.(Holden)20090402
 'WALTZ WITH BASHIR' (R, 1:27) Ari Folman's animated documentary about Israeli soldiers haunted by memories of the 1982 Lebanon war is part memoir, part dream, part combat picture and altogether amazing.(Scott)20090402
 'WATCHMEN' (R, 2:40) Who watches them? Lots of people, I guess. The real question is why.(Scott)20090402
 'THE WRESTLER'(R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair.(Scott)20090402

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM HISTORY (79%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); HISTORY (76%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); FESTIVALS (70%); THEATER (59%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (86%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%); AFRICA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



113 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By ALMAZ WILSON

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 UNIVERSOUL CIRCUS
 This year's theme of change has proved infectious. While economic woes have certainly dimmed the atmosphere, the sentiment at the UniverSoul Circus yields only light. Founded in 1994 to showcase the range of African-American talent, this circus now features a cast of international performers in this season's ''America and the World in One Ring.'' 
 The basic ingredients of a circus are here: a mystical scene beneath a massive tent, strobe lights beaming through foggy air, and the scent of buttered popcorn mixed with a bit of the zoo. Yet when the lights go down, this big top transforms into a global affair. Zante Trini Zante, a group of festive dancers and stilt walkers from Trinidad and Tobago, bring a taste of Carnival, while Chinese acrobats flip high into the air, landing miraculously into a human pyramid. Haymanot Habte Gurara, left, a 21-year-old gymnast turned juggler from Ethiopia, seamlessly uses her feet to manipulate furniture weighing up to 24 pounds. 
 Ms. Gurara represents UniverSoul's efforts to create an international mix. This year acts from 11 countries will perform, 7 more than the previous year. ''We find someone who has a particular skill set, we'll bring them here and then send them somewhere else to become more developed,'' says Deneise Howard, an assistant producer for UniverSoul. Once their skills are refined, performers are ready for the ring, she said.
 Despite the child-friendly atmosphere, there are plenty of opportunities for adults to have fun. In the Old School vs. New School Contest, a chosen young couple and mature couple enter the ring and compete by lip-synching and acting out the lyrics of a popular R&B song of their time. In a recent performance this portion of the show was an audience favorite. 
 For those looking to enjoy some carefree entertainment, and a lesson in foreign relations, this lively show just might do the trick. (Through Sunday, Roy Wilkins Park, Baisley and Merrick Boulevards, Jamaica, Queens; Wednesday through April 26, Wollman Rink, Prospect Park, Brooklyn; April 28 to May 3, Orchard Beach parking lot, the Bronx; May 5 to 10, Muhammad Ali Avenue and Irvine Turner Boulevard, Newark; $16.50 to $23.50 for adults; $16.50 to $21.50 for children up to age 10; $11 for all at 10:30 a.m. shows. Showtimes and information: 800-316-7439, universoulcircus.com.) ALMAZ WILSON 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON MCCOLLUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); GYMNASTICS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); DANCERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); CHILDREN (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ETHIOPIA (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



114 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Good Times Roll On Inside Grand Central

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Grand Central Terminal is a curious kind of threshold -- rooted in Midtown Manhattan, but belonging as much to the suburbs as it does to the city.
 When the hordes from the north spill into the terminal, the seal of transportation is still unbroken by city air. For the commuters who rush from there to the office and back, Grand Central offers some consolation, a taste of the city that's just out of reach.
 Grocery shopping in the Village may be but a memory, but the same Morbier from Murray's Cheese can be scooped up en route to the 6:23 to Hastings-on-Hudson at the lavish gourmet market inside the terminal. The atmosphere in the terminal's Graybar Passage may be a far cry from Waverly Place, but presumably the coffee from Joe the Art of Coffee is pretty much the same. 
 If Grand Central feels like a microcosm of New York, a casual passer-through might be a little troubled by recent changes. Whatever happened to that little music store that had been there for so many years? What about that terrific toy store along Lexington Passage, the Children's General Store? Has the economy gotten so bad that $4 finger puppets aren't selling? And how is a working journalist supposed to feel when she emerges from Track 39 for a fresh day on the job only to confront, within a few steps, the empty, hulking carapace of Eastern News?
 For those who see economic indicators in every empty storefront, take heart -- the main reason for the upheaval at Grand Central is that many of the stores signed 10-year leases soon after the terminal's 1998 renovation. As those leases expire, there is a bidding process, and the Grand Central Terminal Development agency has some say in deciding what kind of business is well-suited to the space. 
 The music store InMotion Entertainment, for example, was essentially encouraged to move on. ''Ten years ago, people were buying CDs,'' Nancy Marshall, the director of the development agency, said apologetically. At the newsstand, sales were flat, which is practically the new up, but when the lease came due, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority decided to install a cafe there (bidding starts in May). 
 The Godiva Chocolatier shop near the exit of Lexington Passage is being replaced with, of all things, an expanded version of the Pink Slip, a lingerie store aptly named for the moment, and currently overflowing with flirty silken and polka-dotted items of apparel. 
 ''The whole world thinks I'm crazy to expand,'' said the store's owner, Margo Andros. But Ms. Andros had come to understand that she would probably lose out to a higher bidder when her lease came up, and she was being encouraged by the developer to upgrade her space and brand. Given that sales have held steady, she said, she is hopeful the gamble will pay off.
 Grand Central may be the one shopping center in all of New York that seems to be making the call to go a little more upscale: the Art of Mud, a craft pottery shop, is being replaced by Innasense, a jeweler from the West Village, and the space where a florist previously wilted will soon be filled by Cursive, which has posted promises of ''jewelry, curiosities and fine paper.'' Jewelry? Fine paper? Curiosities? Has there ever been a less hospitable climate for items that even their purveyors can describe only as curious?
 It turns out that even relatively useless, if adorable, gift items at a reasonable price are still selling relatively well at Grand Central, the scene of countless panicked purchases on the eves of holidays and birthdays.
 Alan Ceppos, the owner of Pylones, a gift shop with five locations in the city, said sales have dropped by 10 percent at the Grand Central store, but by 25 percent in SoHo. Business at O & Company, which specializes in olive oil and gourmet food from the Mediterranean, is likewise holding steady. ''People don't feel as guilty spending money on food,'' theorized Justin Bilyeu, an assistant manager there. 
 Maybe at Grand Central, a place bustling with purpose and destination, even shopping for a cheese grater that looks like the Eiffel Tower (a big hit of late at Pylones) can feel productive and efficient.
 Or maybe the sight of a shopper shelling out $58 for 33.8 ounces of Basil Specialty Olive Oil sends people off to work more confident that their jobs might just still be there in a month.
 A good cup of joe, a shot of polka-dotted color and a glimpse of the kind of pink slip that women (and men) like -- the success of the stores at Grand Central probably won't turn the tide of the economy, but they might give the weary commuter's day a fighting start. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Pink Slip at Grand Central is growing. ''The whole world thinks I'm crazy,'' the owner says.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC STORES (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); SUBURBS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); RETAILERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (75%); LINGERIE (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (67%); SALES FIGURES (67%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); NEWSSTANDS (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (60%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (50%)

COMPANY: GODIVA CHOCOLATIER INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (62%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (62%); SIC5441 CANDY, NUT, & CONFECTIONERY STORES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



115 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Banks Get New Leeway In Valuing Their Assets

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
A once-obscure accounting rule that infuriated banks, who blamed it for worsening the financial crisis, was changed Thursday to give banks more discretion in reporting the value of mortgage securities. 
 The change seems likely to allow banks to report higher profits by assuming that the securities are worth more than anyone is now willing to pay for them. But critics objected that the change could further damage the credibility of financial institutions by enabling them to avoid recognizing losses from bad loans they have made.
 Critics also said that since the rules were changed under heavy political pressure, the move compromised the independence of the organization that did it, the Financial Accounting Standards Board. 
 During the financial crisis, the market prices of many securities, particularly those backed by subprime home mortgages, have plunged to fractions of their original prices. That has forced banks to report hundreds of billions of dollars in losses over the last year, because some of those securities must be reported at market value each three months, with the bank showing a profit or loss based on the change.
 Bankers bitterly complained that the current market prices were the result of distressed sales and that they should be allowed to ignore those prices and value the securities instead at their value in a normal market. At first FASB, pronounced FAS-bee, resisted making changes, but that changed within a few days of a Congressional hearing at which legislators from both parties demanded the board act.
 ''There is a perception that we are yielding to political pressure,'' one board member, Lawrence W. Smith, said as he voted for the changes. 
 ''We are an independent standard setter, and it is important that we maintain our independence,'' Mr. Smith added. ''At the same time, how can we ignore what is going on around us?''
 A group headed by two former chairmen of the Securities and Exchange Commission, one who served under President Bill Clinton and one who was appointed by President George W. Bush, said that it feared that politicization of accounting standards would destroy the credibility of the board.
 It is not clear how much bank profits will improve as a result of the change; that will depend on how much the banks use their newly approved discretion to set values. Nor is it clear whether investors will put much faith in the new figures. 
 Early answers to those questions may become available within a few weeks. The board said banks could apply the new rules to their financial statements for the quarter that ended this week.
 One major bank, Citigroup, said the new standard would not cause any change in its statements.
 It is rare that the application of an accounting rule becomes a political issue, but that happened this year in both the United States and Europe, where the International Accounting Standards Board held an emergency meeting to change its rule after such a move was demanded by the French president.
 In the United States, FASB acknowledged the investor criticism of the rules the board proposed after the Congressional hearing and responded on Thursday by voting to require banks to make additional disclosures about the assets in question.
 The five-member board approved three changes to the rules, two by unanimous votes and one with two dissents. That disputed change makes it possible for banks to keep some declines in asset values off their income statements.
 Robert H. Herz, the board's chairman and the man who faced the Congressional pressure, said he voted for the changes because he thought the improved disclosures would help investors.
 Mr. Smith said he had considered changing his vote as recently as Thursday morning. That would have led to the defeat of one change sought by the banks and perhaps set off a confrontation with Congress. ''But,'' he said, ''I ultimately decided this is an improvement, because we have significantly improved the amount of information'' being disclosed.
 The American Bankers Association, which pushed legislators to demand the board make changes, praised the board. ''Today's decision should improve information for investors by providing more accurate estimates of market values,'' said Edward Yingling, the association's president.
 One change adopted by the board would require banks to disclose the effect of the changed interpretation, although the final wording has not been released and it is not clear how detailed that disclosure will be.
 For some other assets, banks must write them down to market value only if they conclude that the decline is ''other than temporary.'' The measure that drew dissents will allow banks to keep part of such declines off their income statements, although the decline would still show on the institutions' balance sheets.
 One of the dissenters, Thomas J. Linsmeier, argued that accounting rules already allowed the ''fiction all banks are well capitalized,'' adding that the changes would ''make them seem better capitalized.''
 The adoption of the rules was widely expected. It came on the same day that the stock market soared, but that rally began in Asia, well before the board met, and seemed to be tied to indications that the world economy might no longer be getting worse, even if recovery was not imminent.
 While it was the banks who pressed for the rule, it will affect all financial institutions. But the board said it would make small changes to assure that it did not change accounting in mutual funds, which must mark their assets to market value every day.
 Bank regulators already have the power to adjust accounting in computing capital, and some investor groups argued they should do that, rather than give the banks more freedom to value assets at what they think they should be worth, rather than what someone will pay for them.
 The board added to the latest rule a statement that the goal of reflecting market value remained the same, but the rules will still allow more judgment by managers, and thus gives them more ability to control the numbers they report.
 The vote drew condemnation from an organization called the Investors Working Group, and the two former S.E.C. chairman who lead it -- William H. Donaldson, appointed by the second President Bush, and Arthur Levitt Jr., who served in the Clinton administration. 
 ''In order to create high-quality accounting standards, it is critical that the process be independent and free from political pressure,'' the group said in a statement. ''This will ensure that such standards are neutral and faithfully represent economic reality. To the extent that these new FASB proposals reduce the free flow of transparent and reliable financial information, they undermine investor interests and weaken their ability to make sound investment decisions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert H. Herz, chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, said the new disclosures would help investors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/REUTERS)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); APPROVALS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); APPOINTMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (83%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



116 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Rise Unexpectedly

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The number of people filing new jobless claims rose unexpectedly last week, while those continuing to receive benefits hit a record for the 10th consecutive week.
 Both figures showed that the labor market remained weak and was unlikely to recover anytime soon. 
 The Labor Department said initial claims for unemployment insurance rose to a seasonally adjusted 669,000 from the previous week's revised figure of 657,000. That total is above analysts' expectations and is the highest in more than 26 years, though the work force has grown by about half since then.
 The tally of laid-off workers claiming benefits for more than a week rose 161,000 to 5.73 million, setting a record for the 10th week in a row. That also was above analysts' expectations and indicated that unemployed workers were having difficulty finding new jobs.
 As a proportion of the work force, the number of people on the jobless benefit rolls is the highest since May 1983.
 Employers are eliminating jobs and taking other cost-cutting measures to deal with sharp reductions in consumer and business spending. The current recession, now in its 17th month, is the longest since World War II.
 The department is expected to issue on Friday another dismal monthly employment report. Economists forecast that the report will show employers cut 654,000 jobs in March, and that the unemployment rate will increase to 8.5 percent, from 8.1 percent.
 Companies cut their payrolls by 651,000 jobs in February, a record third month of job losses above 600,000.
 A private survey Wednesday said businesses cut 742,000 jobs in March. Employment at medium-size and small companies fell the sharpest -- by a combined 614,000. The rest of the job cuts came from big firms -- those with 500 or more workers -- according to the report from Automatic Data Processing and Macroeconomic Advisers.
 The Obama administration's $787 billion stimulus package, approved by Congress in February, is trying to counter the recession by providing money for public works projects, extending unemployment benefits and helping states avoid budget cuts.
 In a second report on Thursday, the Commerce Department said that orders to factories posted an increase in February after six monthly declines, providing another glimmer of hope that the economy's deep plunge might be starting to moderate.
 Orders for manufactured products rose by 1.8 percent in February, much better than the 1.1 percent decline that economists had expected.
 The rebound may well prove temporary given all the forces that are continuing to batter the economy. Still, analysts said a string of better-than-expected reports in recent days could at least be signaling that the severe slide might be starting to ease slightly.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BUDGETS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); APPROVALS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); FACTORY ORDERS (65%); WORLD WAR II (51%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (58%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (58%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



117 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3503 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 UNIVERSOUL CIRCUS
 This year's theme of change has proved infectious. While economic woes have certainly dimmed the atmosphere, the sentiment at the UniverSoul Circus yields only light. Founded in 1994 to showcase the range of African-American talent, this circus now features a cast of international performers in this season's ''America and the World in One Ring.'' 
 The basic ingredients of a circus are here: a mystical scene beneath a massive tent, strobe lights beaming through foggy air, and the scent of buttered popcorn mixed with a bit of the zoo. Yet when the lights go down, this big top transforms into a global affair. Zante Trini Zante, a group of festive dancers and stilt walkers from Trinidad and Tobago, bring a taste of Carnival, while Chinese acrobats flip high into the air, landing miraculously into a human pyramid. Haymanot Habte Gurara, left, a 21-year-old gymnast turned juggler from Ethiopia, seamlessly uses her feet to manipulate furniture weighing up to 24 pounds. 
 Ms. Gurara represents UniverSoul's efforts to create an international mix. This year acts from 11 countries will perform, 7 more than the previous year. ''We find someone who has a particular skill set, we'll bring them here and then send them somewhere else to become more developed,'' says Deneise Howard, an assistant producer for UniverSoul. Once their skills are refined, performers are ready for the ring, she said.
 Despite the child-friendly atmosphere, there are plenty of opportunities for adults to have fun. In the Old School vs. New School Contest, a chosen young couple and mature couple enter the ring and compete by lip-synching and acting out the lyrics of a popular R&B song of their time. In a recent performance this portion of the show was an audience favorite. 
 For those looking to enjoy some carefree entertainment, and a lesson in foreign relations, this lively show just might do the trick. (Through Sunday, Roy Wilkins Park, Baisley and Merrick Boulevards, Jamaica, Queens; Wednesday through April 26, Wollman Rink, Prospect Park, Brooklyn; April 28 to May 3, Orchard Beach parking lot, the Bronx; May 5 to 10, Muhammad Ali Avenue and Irvine Turner Boulevard, Newark; $16.50 to $23.50 for adults; $16.50 to $21.50 for children up to age 10; $11 for all at 10:30 a.m. shows. Showtimes and information: 800-316-7439, universoulcircus.com.) ALMAZ WILSON 
 Museums and Sites
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Through Aug. 16, ''Climate Change: The Threat to Life and a New Energy Future,'' an interactive display. Through May 25, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter.'' In the Imax theater through May 23, playing alternately every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Wild Ocean,'' about underwater survival of migrating species, and ''Dinosaurs Alive!,'' a search for dinosaur fossils. Timed tickets to ''Climate Change'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $24; $18 for students and 60+; $14 for ages 2 to 12. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for ages 2 to 12. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org.20090402
 HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN Staten Island Historical Society. Every Wednesday through April 29 at 7:30 p.m., English country dancing; $5. Saturday at 7:30 and 9 p.m., eclectic acoustic music performed by the group Triboro (part of the Tavern Concerts series); $15; $12 for members; reservations required, Ext. 281. Open Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Additional tours on weekdays at 2:30 p.m. and on weekends at 2 and 3:30 p.m. 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town, Staten Island, (718) 351-1611, historicrichmondtown.org; $5; $4 for 65+; $3.50 for students and children 5 to 17; free for members and children under 5.20090402
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK Opening Saturday, ''Amsterdam/New Amsterdam: The Worlds of Henry Hudson,'' an exhibition in celebration of the 400th anniversary of Hudson's voyage, with paintings, maps, navigational instruments and other items. Related event: Saturday at 2 p.m., a family workshop for creating Dutch Delft tiles. Sunday at 2 p.m., a performance by Camille Ortiz, a mezzo-soprano, and Jeanne-Minette Cilliers, a pianist. Through May 3, ''Unseen Works From the Stettheimer Dollhouse,'' featuring 15 items that have not been on display before. Through June 9, ''Stoops of Manhattan -- Railings and Shadows: Paintings by Andrew Berrien Jones.'' Through May 17, ''Valentina: American Couture and the Cult of Celebrity'' includes clothing, accessories and photographs. Through April 12, ''Broken Glass: Photographs of the South Bronx by Ray Mortenson.'' Through April 22, ''Growing and Greening New York,'' an exploration of the ways to achieve environmental sustainability in keeping with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's initiatives known as PlaNYC 2030. Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays from 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families.20090402
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY Monday at 7 p.m., ''The Making of Guys and Dolls,'' a performance of songs from the Broadway show performed by Karen Mason, Michael McGrath, Jeff McCarthy and Garrett Long; Evans Haile is the musical director. Also appearing will be Jo Sullivan Loesser, widow of the composer Frank Loesser. Tickets, $75 to $500; proceeds benefit programs of the American Musicals Project; reservations: (212) 873-3400, Ext. 305. Through July 12, ''Abraham Lincoln in His Own Words: An Intimate View of Our Greatest President,'' an exhibition of speeches, letters and other documents. Through December 2010, ''First Flowers: Colonial Portraits at the New-York Historical Society.'' Through Oct. 2, ''Taking the Oath: The First Presidential Inauguration,'' an exhibition of artifacts from Washington's swearing-in, including a chair and a balustrade from Federal Hall, the site of the ceremony. Through May 3, ''A New President Takes Command,'' an exhibition on Franklin D. Roosevelt's first 100 days in office, with documents, photographs and newsreels, also featuring materials from the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, N.Y. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org; $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 1220090402
 ROCK AND ROLL HALL OF FAME ANNEX NYC With artifacts including photographs, vintage amplifiers and Bruce Springsteen's 1957 Chevy. Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. 76 Mercer Street, SoHo, (646) 786-6680, rockannex.com; Timed tickets: $24.50; $22.50 for 65+; $16.50 for those 4 to 12.20090402
 SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM Through January 2010, ''Treasures of a President: F.D.R. and the Sea,'' an exhibition based on Roosevelt's love of sailing and collecting, with prints, drawings, letters and ship models. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; extended hours to 9 p.m. on the third Friday of every month. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8786, southstreetseaportmuseum.org; $10, $8 for students and 65+; $5 for those 5 to 12 years old; free for those 4 and under and for everyone during extended hours on the third Friday of the month.20090402
 Gardens
 BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN Opening Saturday and running through May 10, ''Hanami,'' the annual cherry blossom display with related events. Through May 24, ''My Favorite Garden: Works by Monika E. de Vries Gohlke,'' an exhibition of etchings, paintings and drawings. Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; weekends and holidays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 1000 Washington Avenue, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, (718) 623-7200, bbg.org; $8; $4 for students and 65+; free for under 12 and members at all times and for 65+ on Fridays. Free Tuesdays, all day, and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to noon.20090402
 NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN Through April 12, ''The Orchid Show: Brazilian Modern,'' a display of thousands of flowers, set in a contemporary garden, with artwork. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tram tours daily, weather permitting, every 20 minutes. Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org; An all-garden pass is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $8 for children 2 to 12; free for members and children under 2. Grounds admission only: $6; $5 for Bronx residents; $3 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12; free for under 2 and for everyone all day on Wednesdays and from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking, $12.20090402
 SNUG HARBOR CULTURAL CENTER The Waintrob Collection, which includes the art of Georgia O'Keeffe, Henry Moore and many others, is on display at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center and Botanical Garden though July 19. 1000 Richmond Terrace, Staten Island, (718) 448-2500, snug-harbor.org; $3; $2 for students and 65+.20090402
 Events
 AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE PROGRAM On the first Sunday of every month, tours of the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, led by an educator and translated by a trained interpreter. This Sunday at various times, ''The Moores: An Irish Family in America,'' meeting at the Visitor Center at 108 Orchard Street. Lower East Side Tenement Museum, 108 Orchard Street, Lower East Side, (212) 431-0233, Ext. 232, tenement.org; $17; $13 students and 65+.20090402
 ARTS FOR TRANSIT Saturday at 11 p.m., Jean Shin leads a presentation at Flushing Town Hall and an artist tour of ''Celadon Remnants,'' her recent mosaic installation portraying the Korean diaspora at the Broadway station of the Long Island Rail Road. MetroCard required. Meeting place and reservations: 718-694-1867.mta.info/mta/museum; $20; $10 children ages 5 to 17.20090402
 BMW ART CARS Through Monday, an exhibition of cars turned into pieces of art in the mid-1970s by Andy Warhol, Frank Stella, Roy Lichtenstein and Robert Rauschenberg. Also on display is a section of a stadium-size installation created last November by the artist Robin Rhode, who used a specially equipped 2009 Z4 Roadster as a ''paintbrush''; with video clips of all of the artists. Daily, 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. Grand Central Terminal, Vanderbilt Hall; free.20090402
 CONVERSATIONS AS MELODIES Saturday at 5 p.m., a concert with performers from diverse traditions, including Bulgaria and Japan. Intersections, 274 Fifth Avenue, at 29th Street, (917) 284-0886, intersectionsinternational.org; free.20090402
 ELEVENTH ANNUAL TARTAN DAY PARADE Saturday at 2 p.m., on Avenue of the Americas, from 46th Street to 58th Streets, led by Alan Cumming, the Scottish actor, with bagpipers and Scottish-American organizations.tartanweek.com.20090402
 ROY HAYNES FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH BAND Saturday at 7:00 p.m., a concert featuring Jaleel Shaw (saxophone), Martin Bejerano (piano) and David Wong (bass); part of the 10th Annual Central Brooklyn Jazz Festival. Advance reservations required: (718) 569-1896 or cbjcjazz.org. Brooklyn Tech Auditorium, 20 Fort Greene Place, at South Elliot, Brooklyn, (718) 569-1896, cbjcjazz.org; $20 and $40; $10, students; $75, V.I.P. seating and reception.20090402
 'THE JEW ON TRIAL,' A CONVERSATION WITH ALBERT MAYSLES Sunday at 11 a.m., a panel discussion with Albert Maysles, film director and producer, about the case of Mendel Beilis, accused of murdering a Christian boy in Ukraine in 1913. Museum at Eldridge Street Synagogue, 12 Eldridge Street, (212) 219-0888, eldridgestreet.org; free.20090402
 KNITTING AND BOOK READING WITH KATE JACOBS Thursday at 7 p.m., Kate Jacobs, author of ''The Friday Night Knitting Club,'' will be reading from her new book ''Comfort Food''; knitting materials are provided. Borders Bookstore, 10 Columbus Circle, (212) 823-9775; free.20090402
 MURRAY HILL MARKET AT P.S. 116 An indoor and outdoor market, sponsored by the P.T.A. Sundays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. East 32nd Street, at Second Avenue; free.20090402
 NEW YORK SOCIETY LIBRARY Through Dec. 31, ''The President's Wife and the Librarian,'' an exhibition of correspondence between Edith Kermit Roosevelt and Marion King. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. New York Society Library, 53 East 79th Street, (212) 288-5232; free.20090402
 OPENING DAY LITTLE LEAGUE PARADE Saturday at 10 a.m., Seventh Avenue and Carroll Street to Prospect Park Bandshell, Brooklyn.Free.20090402
 PICTURING THE SHOAH FILM SERIES A series of films that explore how movies represent the Holocaust from unexpected angles. Sunday at 2 p.m., Jean-Luc Godard's ''In Praise of Love,'' is screened. See Web site for schedule. Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 294-8301, cjh.org; $10.20090402
 POETS HOUSE SHOWCASE Opening reception, Saturday from 1 to 4 p.m., including a display of more than 2,000 titles of new poetry and poetry-related books published in the last year (through April 11). New York Public Library, Jefferson Market Branch, 425 Sixth Avenue, at 10th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 243-4334, poetshouse.org; free.20090402
 REFLECTIONS ON JAPANESE STYLE: SHERMAN E. LEE AND THE COLLECTING OF JAPANESE ART Wednesday at 7 p.m., a talk by Samuel C. Morse, professor of the history of art and Asian languages and civilizations at Amherst College, in conjunction with the current exhibition ''Asian Journeys: Collecting Art in Postwar America.'' Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org; Lecture: $12; $10 for students and 65+. Museum: $10; $7 for 65+; $5 for students.20090402
 SKYSCRAPER MUSEUM FIFTH ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION Saturday, noon to 6 p.m., the museum offers free admission to tour its exhibition, ''Vertical Cities: Hong Kong/New York.'' Skyscraper Museum, 39 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-6324, skyscraper.org.20090402
 VAN CORTLANDT PARK, NATURE PHOTOGRAPHY Sunday at 10 a.m., the Urban Park Rangers will help to hone your photography skills. Meeting at the Van Cortlandt Nature Center, reachable from the park entrance at West 246th Street and Broadway in the Bronx. Bring your own camera.(718) 548-0912, nyc.gov/parks/rangers; free.20090402
 'TRACKING THE CREDIT CRISIS: A TIMELINE' A display and video presentation documenting the financial crisis, with updates as they occur. Open Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Museum of American Finance, 48 Wall Street, at William Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 908-4110, moaf.org; $8, $5 for children 7 and older, students and 62+; 6 and under, free.20090402
 Spoken Word
 AUTHOR AT THE LIBRARY: DENNIS LEHANE Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., Mr. Lehane reads from his new book, ''The Given Day.'' Mid-Manhattan Library, 455 Fifth Avenue, at 40th Street, (212) 340-0833, nypl.org; free.20090402
 MCNALLY JACKSON BOOKS Monday at 6 p.m., a discussion on America in the wake of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., with Clay Risen, author of ''A Nation on Fire,'' and the historians Brian Purnell and Kevin Kruse. Thursday at 7 p.m., Erica Jong introduces her new collection of poetry, ''Love Comes First.'' 52 Prince Street, (212) 274-1160, mcnallyjackson.com; Both events are free.20090402
 POEMS & PINTS Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., a reading featuring Sophie Cabot Black and Sharon Olds. Fraunces Tavern, 54 Pearl Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 219-9401, Ext. 118; free.20090402
 'REMAKING WARSAW: ARCHITECTURE AND MEMORY IN THE POLISH CAPITAL, 1943-2009' Thursday at 6 p.m., a lecture by David Crowley of the Royal College of Art in London. Deutsches Haus, New York University, 42 Washington Mews, at University Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-8663, nyu.edu/deutscheshaus; free.20090402
 SUNDAYS AT JASA Sunday at noon, a discussion of ''Rage and Glory: The Volatile Life and Career of George C. Scott,'' by David Sheward, with John Rainer, actor, director and teacher. Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, John Jay College, 899 Tenth Avenue, Manhattan, (212) 273-5304; $3 suggested donation; free for members.20090402
 THE THIRD MIND LIVE: MARINA ABRAMOVIC Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., this performance artist discusses her series, ''Night Sea Crossing.'' Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3587, guggenheim.org; $30, $25 for members, $10 for students under 25.20090402
 Walking Tours
 BERNIE'S NEW YORK Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Astor Place/East Village -- The Old and the New,'' meeting on the southeast corner of East 11th Street and Second Avenue.(718) 655-1883; $15.20090402
 BOWERY AND CANAL WALKING TOURS Sunday at 1 p.m., ''New York in the Civil War,'' explores the city's role during the war and the war's impact on the city, meeting in front of City Hall Park, Broadway and Park Row, Lower Manhattan.(917) 602-3543; $15, $12 for students and 65+.20090402
 FORT GREENE WALKING TOURS Two tours of this Brooklyn neighborhood, both on Saturday at 1 p.m. The first, sponsored by the Center for the Urban Environment, will meet in front of Cuyler Gore Park, at Fulton Street and Greene Avenue; $13, $10 for members, $8 for students; (718) 788-8500, Ext. 260. The other, led by Big Onion Walking Tours, will meet on the southeast corner of Lafayette and Flatbush Avenues; $15, $12 for students, 63+ and members of the New-York Historical Society; (212) 439-1090.20090402
 IN DEPTH WALKING TOURS Saturday at 11 a.m., ''Ayn Rand's Fifth Avenue,'' meeting at the Columbus monument in Columbus Circle.(917) 607-9019; $20.20090402
 HENRY JAMES'S NEW YORK Sunday at 1:30 p.m., a tour of literary sites and writers' residences in Greenwich Village, sponsored by the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation and led by Joyce Gold.(212) 475-9585, Ext. 35, gvshp.org; $10; free for members of the Society and the Merchant's House Museum. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 475-9585, Ext. 35.20090402
 JEWISH LOWER EAST SIDE Two pre-Passover tours on Sunday at 1 p.m. Big Onion Walking Tours will meet on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets; $15, $12 for students and 63+; (212) 439-1090; bigonion.com. New York Talks and Walks will meet in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street; $15 by credit card, $20 in cash; (888) 377-4455; newyorktalksandwalks.com.20090402
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., a tour in Brooklyn, with stops in Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill. Every Monday at 2 p.m., a black history tour of Bedford-Stuyvesant. All tours meet in front of the New York Marriott, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn. Reservations are required.(718) 789-0430; each, $25.20090402
 OUTDOORS CLUB Sunday at 12:45 p.m., an East River Walk, meeting at the Rusk Institute, First Avenue and 34th Street and ending at the South Street Seaport. Also on Sunday at 5 p.m., a walk across the Brooklyn Bridge and a tour of the Brooklyn Promenade, with dinner in Brooklyn Heights; meets near the fountain in City Hall Park. Both are canceled if it rains.(212) 348-5344; each, $3.20090402
 SHOREWALKERS Saturday at 10:15 a.m., a 6.5-mile hike in the Staten Island Greenbelt, meeting in the waiting room of the Staten Island Ferry Terminal in Lower Manhattan; (718) 435-4994. Take along lunch and water.shorewalkers.org; donations accepted.20090402
 A TOUR GROWS IN BROOKLYN Daily walking tours at noon of the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Park Slope and nearby Prospect Park. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 209-3370.brooklynwalkingtour.com; $30, $15 for children, including lunch.20090402
 URBAN PARK RANGERS Sunday, two walks with the Urban Park Rangers. At 11 a.m., hike through Manhattan's oldest natural forest, meeting at Inwood Hill Park Nature Center, Inwood; at 1 p.m., travel through the tunnels and hidden chambers of Fort Totten with the Urban Park Rangers, meeting at Fort Totten Visitors Center, Ordinance and Lee Road, Queens, (718) 352-1769, nyc.gov/parks/rangers; free.20090402
 WALKABOUT Sunday at 1 p.m., a tour of Greenwich Village, led by James Staal, meeting at Father Demo Square, Carmine Street and Avenue of the Americas.(917) 693-6495; $15.20090402
 Recreation
 CITY PARKS FOUNDATION RUN FOR THE PARKS FOUR-MILE AND KIDS' RACES Sunday in Central Park. At 8 a.m., a four-mile run beginning on the East Drive, south of 72nd Street; children's races begin at 9 a.m. on the Center Road, south of the 72nd Street Transverse.(212) 860-4455, nyrr.org. Advance registration: $35; $22 for members; $15 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $40; $25 for members; $20 for 18 and younger and 62+. Kids' races: $6 in advance, $8 on Sunday.20090402
 Information about events to be considered for inclusion in Spare Times can be sent to weekend@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (83%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); GYMNASTICS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); DANCERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); CHILDREN (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%); HISTORY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ETHIOPIA (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



118 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: China's Dollar Trap

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Back in the early stages of the financial crisis, wags joked that our trade with China had turned out to be fair and balanced after all: They sold us poison toys and tainted seafood; we sold them fraudulent securities. 
 But these days, both sides of that deal are breaking down. On one side, the world's appetite for Chinese goods has fallen off sharply. China's exports have plunged in recent months and are now down 26 percent from a year ago. On the other side, the Chinese are evidently getting anxious about those securities. 
 But China still seems to have unrealistic expectations. And that's a problem for all of us.
 The big news last week was a speech by Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of China's central bank, calling for a new ''super-sovereign reserve currency.'' 
 The paranoid wing of the Republican Party promptly warned of a dastardly plot to make America give up the dollar. But Mr. Zhou's speech was actually an admission of weakness. In effect, he was saying that China had driven itself into a dollar trap, and that it can neither get itself out nor change the policies that put it in that trap in the first place.
 Some background: In the early years of this decade, China began running large trade surpluses and also began attracting substantial inflows of foreign capital. If China had had a floating exchange rate -- like, say, Canada -- this would have led to a rise in the value of its currency, which, in turn, would have slowed the growth of China's exports. 
 But China chose instead to keep the value of the yuan in terms of the dollar more or less fixed. To do this, it had to buy up dollars as they came flooding in. As the years went by, those trade surpluses just kept growing -- and so did China's hoard of foreign assets.
 Now the joke about fraudulent securities was actually unfair. Aside from a late, ill-considered plunge into equities (at the very top of the market), the Chinese mainly accumulated very safe assets, with U.S. Treasury bills''; T-bills, for short -- making up a large part of the total. But while T-bills are as safe from default as anything on the planet, they yield a very low rate of return.
 Was there a deep strategy behind this vast accumulation of low-yielding assets? Probably not. China acquired its $2 trillion stash -- turning the People's Republic into the T-bills Republic -- the same way Britain acquired its empire: in a fit of absence of mind. 
 And just the other day, it seems, China's leaders woke up and realized that they had a problem.
 The low yield doesn't seem to bother them much, even now. But they are, apparently, worried about the fact that around 70 percent of those assets are dollar-denominated, so any future fall in the dollar would mean a big capital loss for China. Hence Mr. Zhou's proposal to move to a new reserve currency along the lines of the S.D.R.'s, or special drawing rights, in which the International Monetary Fund keeps its accounts.
 But there's both less and more here than meets the eye. S.D.R.'s aren't real money. They're accounting units whose value is set by a basket of dollars, euros, Japanese yen and British pounds. And there's nothing to keep China from diversifying its reserves away from the dollar, indeed from holding a reserve basket matching the composition of the S.D.R.'s -- nothing, that is, except for the fact that China now owns so many dollars that it can't sell them off without driving the dollar down and triggering the very capital loss its leaders fear.
 So what Mr. Zhou's proposal actually amounts to is a plea that someone rescue China from the consequences of its own investment mistakes. That's not going to happen.
 And the call for some magical solution to the problem of China's excess of dollars suggests something else: that China's leaders haven't come to grips with the fact that the rules of the game have changed in a fundamental way. 
 Two years ago, we lived in a world in which China could save much more than it invested and dispose of the excess savings in America. That world is gone.
 Yet the day after his new-reserve-currency speech, Mr. Zhou gave another speech in which he seemed to assert that China's extremely high savings rate is immutable, a result of Confucianism, which values ''anti-extravagance.'' Meanwhile, ''it is not the right time'' for the United States to save more. In other words, let's go on as we were.
 That's also not going to happen.
 The bottom line is that China hasn't yet faced up to the wrenching changes that will be needed to deal with this global crisis. The same could, of course, be said of the Japanese, the Europeans -- and us.
 And that failure to face up to new realities is the main reason that, despite some glimmers of good news -- the G-20 summit accomplished more than I thought it would -- this crisis probably still has years to run. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); BANKING IN CHINA (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



119 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMINST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Greed and Stupidity

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
What happened to the global economy? We seemed to be chugging along, enjoying moderate business cycles and unprecedented global growth. All of a sudden, all hell broke loose. 
 There are many theories about what happened, but two general narratives seem to be gaining prominence, which we will call the greed narrative and the stupidity narrative. The two overlap, but they lead to different ways of thinking about where we go from here. 
 The best single encapsulation of the greed narrative is an essay called ''The Quiet Coup,'' by Simon Johnson in The Atlantic (available online now). 
 Johnson begins with a trend. Between 1973 and 1985, the U.S. financial sector accounted for about 16 percent of domestic corporate profits. In the 1990s, it ranged from 21 percent to 30 percent. This decade, it soared to 41 percent. 
 In other words, Wall Street got huge. As it got huge, its prestige grew. Its compensation packages grew. Its political power grew as well. Wall Street and Washington merged as a flow of investment bankers went down to the White House and the Treasury Department.
 The result was a string of legislation designed to further enhance the freedom and power of finance. Regulations separating commercial and investment banking were repealed. There were major increases in the amount of leverage allowed to investment banks.
 The U.S. economy got finance-heavy and finance-mad, and finally collapsed. When it did, the elites did what all elites do. They took care of their own: ''Money was used to recapitalize banks, buying shares in them on terms that were grossly favorable to the banks themselves,'' Johnson writes. 
 In short, he argues, the U.S. financial crisis is a bigger version of the crises that have afflicted emerging-market nations for decades. An oligarchy takes control of the nation. The oligarchs get carried away and build an empire on mountains of debt. The whole thing comes crashing down. Johnson's remedy is clear. Smash the oligarchy. Nationalize the banks. Sell them off in medium-size pieces. Revise antitrust laws so they can't get back together. Find ways to limit executive compensation. Permanently reduce the size and power of Wall Street.
 The second and, to me, more persuasive theory revolves around ignorance and uncertainty. The primary problem is not the greed of a giant oligarchy. It's that overconfident bankers didn't know what they were doing. They thought they had these sophisticated tools to reduce risk. But when big events -- like the rise of China -- fundamentally altered the world economy, their tools were worse than useless. 
 Many writers have described elements of this intellectual hubris. Amar Bhide has described the fallacy of diversification. Bankers thought that if they bundled slices of many assets into giant packages then they didn't have to perform due diligence on each one. In Wired, Felix Salmon described the false lure of the Gaussian copula function, the formula that gave finance whizzes the illusion that they could accurately calculate risks. Benoit Mandelbrot and Nassim Taleb have explained why extreme events are much more likely to disrupt financial markets than most bankers understood. 
 To me, the most interesting factor is the way instant communications lead to unconscious conformity. You'd think that with thousands of ideas flowing at light speed around the world, you'd get a diversity of viewpoints and expectations that would balance one another out. Instead, global communications seem to have led people in the financial subculture to adopt homogenous viewpoints. They made the same one-way bets at the same time.
 Jerry Z. Muller wrote an indispensable version of the stupidity narrative in an essay called ''Our Epistemological Depression'' in The American magazine. What's new about this crisis, he writes, is the central role of ''opacity and pseudo-objectivity.'' Banks got too big to manage. Instruments got too complex to understand. Too many people were good at math but ignorant of history. 
 The greed narrative leads to the conclusion that government should aggressively restructure the financial sector. The stupidity narrative is suspicious of that sort of radicalism. We'd just be trading the hubris of Wall Street for the hubris of Washington. The stupidity narrative suggests we should preserve the essential market structures, but make them more transparent, straightforward and comprehensible. Instead of rushing off to nationalize the banks, we should nurture and recapitalize what's left of functioning markets. 
 Both schools agree on one thing, however. Both believe that banks are too big. Both narratives suggest we should return to the day when banks were focused institutions -- when savings banks, insurance companies, brokerages and investment banks lived separate lives.
 We can agree on that reform. Still, one has to choose a guiding theory. To my mind, we didn't get into this crisis because inbred oligarchs grabbed power. We got into it because arrogant traders around the world were playing a high-stakes game they didn't understand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (87%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); WRITERS (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



120 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: The Roots of Our Pouting Silence

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Feeling Too Down to Rise Up'' (Op-Ed, March 29): 
 Although Sudhir Venkatesh duly notes that the personal shortcomings of American citizens affected by the recession could be the reason for the lack of civil resistance, a more substantial cause for this pouting silence is the illusion that the administration is doing everything it can to help. 
 The American people are filled with rage, anger and a desperate need for help, but with the Obama administration issuing a new bailout for every season, American complacency may be more attributable to the unawareness of what can be done to fix the failing economy, or to the misunderstanding that President Obama and his administration are indeed slowly but surely saving us. 
 Emily Thenhaus Chicago, March 31, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Sudhir Venkatesh writes eloquently about Americans' social isolation from one another, and how this isolation leads to political passivity, even in the face of current outrages of income inequity. Although people may pass one another within intimate urban spaces, many are so absorbed with their hand-held electronic devices that they scarcely register one another's presence.
 An equally basic reason for the lack of group protest is the fact that since World War II, Americans have scattered out of the cities and over the landscape in the process of suburbanization. Not surprisingly, the deep decline of labor unions has accompanied this scattering. 
 The ''American Dream'' -- promulgated through advertising media -- of owning a detached house, a lawn and the requisite one, two or more automobiles -- has fostered the habit and acceptance of borrowing as a way of life.
 This in turn has led to the weight of personal debt that now dominates so many Americans, and to which Mr. Venkatesh refers as the source of much passivity and fear.
 Roxanne Warren New York, March 30, 2009
 The writer is an architect.
 To the Editor:
 Sudhir Venkatesh posits that one reason Americans are not rioting in the streets in response to the current economic crisis is that ''technology separates us and makes more of our communications indirect, impersonal and emotionally flat.''
 The opposite may be true. For example, one online group to which I belong has been a forum for engaged, impassioned and intelligent debates about our imperiled economy. My friends and family daily send e-mail messages full of worrisome stories of friends and spouses who have lost jobs, of dreams deferred. Many of these people lodge their protests directly with government officials through their Web sites.
 Technology has helped us stay informed, stay balanced and express ourselves in a nonviolent way. So far.
 Yet it's also true that, as Smashing Pumpkins sang, ''Despite all my rage I am still just a rat in a cage.'' People lucky enough to be employed today must keep their heads down and look busy. One can't risk being arrested for civil disobedience when it could lead to losing a job. There may be little chance of finding another, which would mean the end of health insurance and the first missed mortgage payment. 
 Unless and until the fear of the known begins to outweigh the fear of the unknown, we will very likely remain a civil society, doing our best to get to tomorrow by holding it together for today. 
 Susan Harlan Borghese Avon, Conn., March 31, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Sudhir Venkatesh is right: anger gets us mobilized as nothing else quite can. 
 People like to criticize what they call ''empty protest.'' But there is something to be said for taking our outrage seriously. We don't have to force ourselves to have all the answers before we hit the streets. We can trust our noses -- we know what stinks.
 The old order will undoubtedly defend its reckless ways to the bitter end. Maybe the only way change can happen is by the old order getting up one morning and finding out that the protests of many all at once have ushered in a new order instead.
 Joel Brence Aspen, Colo., March 29, 2009
 The writer is a psychiatrist.
 To the Editor:
 Sudhir Venkatesh makes some interesting points about how technology and other factors may contribute to a lack of motivation for Americans to hit the streets in protest. 
 But he doesn't mention what I consider the biggest reason: When people feel as if their concerns are being acknowledged, as they are by our president, they feel less outraged. 
 President Obama and his administration say they ''get it'' and agree that we should be mad. They are visibly doing a great deal to try to fix the problem. And we are seeing some -- if not enough -- accountability.
 It was different with the invasion of Iraq, for example. We expressed repeated and widespread disapproval, but it was ignored. Millions saw no choice but to march.
 Maybe newspapers and blogs are the best venues right now for expressing anger at the greedy, selfish actions of certain people in power. Doesn't Mr. Venkatesh validate that by the fact that he made his case in an Op-Ed article, rather than organizing a protest himself?
 Sue Preziotti New York, March 30, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDAN AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); RIOTS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SUBURBS (65%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); WORLD WAR II (51%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



121 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Makes Early, Aggressive Bid for Black Support

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
A Harlem lawmaker, Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, long ago pledged to support a fellow African-American, William C. Thompson Jr., in this fall's mayoral election. 
 But that did not stop two aides to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg from traveling 150 miles from Manhattan to Albany to seek Mr. Wright's endorsement for the mayor a few weeks ago. 
 ''They must have really wanted it,'' Mr. Wright said, a bit startled by the effort. ''They double-teamed me.'' 
 Seven months before the election, Mr. Bloomberg's campaign is mounting an all-out push to win over New York City's black elected leaders, clergy members and voters, seeking to land an early, and potentially crippling, blow against the mayor's chief rival, Mr. Thompson. 
 Over the next several weeks, the campaign plans to announce at least a dozen endorsements from black leaders, open political field offices in black communities like southeast Queens and run advertisements on black-oriented radio stations.
 The aggressive drive is creating a thorny political predicament for the city's black leaders, who are swelling with pride over the election of Barack Obama and eager to return an African-American to City Hall after a 15-year hiatus.
 Scores of black leaders had already aligned themselves with Mr. Thompson, the two-term city comptroller and a pillar of the Democratic Party, having assumed that under the New York's term-limits law, Mr. Bloomberg could not seek re-election this fall. 
 But the mayor's successful campaign to rewrite the law and run for a third term is now forcing them to choose between a popular incumbent who has soothed racial tensions in the city and a black candidate who is well-liked but well behind in the polls. 
 ''There is a real dilemma in the African-American community,'' said the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, one of the city's most influential black ministers, who endorsed Mr. Bloomberg in 2005 and had signaled that he would support Mr. Thompson this year. 
 Now, under intense lobbying from aides to the mayor, Mr. Butts appears to be wavering. ''Bloomberg has been an excellent mayor,'' he said in an interview.
 In response, Mr. Thompson's campaign is shoring up support, touching off an intense competition for black endorsements. Influential black leaders across the city are now being bombarded with requests for meetings (over breakfast, lunch and dinner.) ''Oh, yes, I have been approached by both sides,'' said C. Virginia Fields, the former Manhattan borough president, who was once a mayoral candidate. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has a commanding lead in the polls, but with the field of serious challengers whittled down to a single candidate, an African-American, aides to the mayor sense a potential threat: a well-orchestrated insurgent campaign, aimed at the city's roughly 1.2 million black voters, that could tap into growing economic frustration. So aides to Mr. Bloomberg are aggressively trying to head off black support for Mr. Thompson. 
 During the first public event of Mr. Bloomberg's re-election bid, he received the endorsement of the Rev. A. R. Bernard, the pastor at the 30,000-member predominantly black Christian Cultural Center in Brooklyn, which is Mr. Thompson's home turf. 
 And starting this month, the mayor's campaign will visit voters door to door in black neighborhoods, the kind of push typically reserved for much later in a campaign. ''The assumption would be that African-Americans and people of color would be with Bill Thompson, because he is African-American,'' said Larry Scott Blackmon, a Bloomberg campaign strategist and one of the aides who went to Albany to seek endorsements recently.
 ''We are not living by that assumption. We are being superaggressive in these communities.''
 Mr. Thompson's campaign will eventually battle back with its own endorsements, but aides said that they refused to react to the mayor's timetable. 
 Using significant amounts of money early in the race could badly hobble Mr. Thompson, since his total spending is capped under the city's public campaign-financing system.
 Mr. Bloomberg, by contrast, is not subject to caps. He is not participating in the public-financing program and is expected to spend up to $80 million of his own money on the election. 
 Mr. Thompson's campaign staff predicted that he would receive the overwhelming majority of black votes in the mayoral race. They view the mayor's early push for black votes as a sign of weakness. ''It speaks to the fact that they are worried,'' said Eduardo Castell, Mr. Thompson's campaign manager.
 With the city's economy in turmoil, Mr. Thompson's supporters said that Mr. Bloomberg, whose personal fortune is estimated at $16 billion, is unlikely to emerge as the champion of black New Yorkers. 
 ''A disconnected billionaire is not an appealing candidate to black voters in the midst of a recession,'' said Assemblyman Hakeem S. Jeffries, who represents parts of Brooklyn and is backing Mr. Thompson.
 Even those who admire the mayor, and may endorse him, say his tactics in rewriting the voter-approved term-limits law will turn off some black voters, who are especially sensitive to issues of disenfranchisement. 
 ''People did not expect that from him, and they are insulted,'' said Mr. Butts, pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem. ''A lot of people are at least hesitating, and at worst are not going to vote for him.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's campaign says that on the issues that matter most to black New Yorkers -- education and crime -- the mayor has made major strides, a fact that he will emphasis throughout the election.
 On Thursday, he did just that. Speaking before black ministers at an education conference, he described the city's efforts to close the education gap between white and black students as ''a final frontier in the struggle for civil rights.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's support among black voters has grown over time. In 2001, he won just 25 percent of the black vote, a figure that nearly doubled, to 47 percent, in 2005. While aides conceded that he is unlikely to reach that threshold this year, they are hoping to capture somewhere between a quarter and a third of the black vote. Mr. Thompson, during his first bid for citywide office in 2001, won 80 percent of the black vote in the primary race against a well-established white candidate, Herbert Berman, his aides said.
 The Rev. Al Sharpton, who has a warm relationship with Mr. Bloomberg but plans to endorse Mr. Thompson, said the challenge for the comptroller will be to make the kind of compelling case against the mayor that David N. Dinkins leveled against Edward I. Koch in 1989.
 ''Koch gave us such good reasons to vote against him,'' Mr. Sharpton said, referring to the racial strife that punctuated the final years of the Koch administration. ''That's not the case with Bloomberg. Even on issues where we disagree, the mayor reaches out to us, so there isn't that hostility.''
 ''That raises a problem for those of us who are with Billy,'' Mr. Sharpton said. 
 Torn between candidates, some black leaders are undertaking feats of political acrobatics, promising to support Mr. Thompson in the Democratic primary and Mr. Bloomberg in the general election, lawmakers and consultants said. 
 ''You have people who want to be loyal to Billy, but they are in too deep with the mayor,'' said Mr. Wright, the assemblyman who is backing Mr. Thompson. ''The mayor,'' he added, ''controls a lot of purse strings.'' 
 Several political consultants and academics said that for Mr. Thompson to pull off an upset, he would have to galvanize large, if not historic, numbers of black voters to cast their ballots for him. 
 For Mr. Bloomberg, they said, the bar is considerably lower: he simply needs to chip away at Mr. Thompson's support. 
 ''Every black Democrat who votes for Bloomberg is like two votes,'' said Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant who has spent years studying ethnic and racial voting patterns. ''It's a vote the mayor gets and a vote that Thompson was counting on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE REV. AL SHARPTON,: who has a warm relationship with the mayor but plans to endorse William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was endorsed for re-election by the Rev. A. R. Bernard last week in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TERM LIMITS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); RELIGION (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); AL SHARPTON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



122 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: House Passes a Bill to Regulate Tobacco, but a Senate Battle Looms

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House of Representatives passed legislation by a wide margin on Thursday to give the Food and Drug Administration sweeping new powers over tobacco products, which kill an estimated 400,000 Americans each year.
 Despite the 298-to-112 House vote, though, a closer battle is likely in the Senate between public health advocates and some tobacco industry supporters. Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, the nation's leading tobacco producing state, has threatened a filibuster. 
 And while the cigarette leader Philip Morris supports the legislation, other big tobacco companies oppose it. 
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a prime sponsor in the Senate, plans to introduce a version of the House bill this month after a two-week Congressional recess. Mr. Kennedy will work for speedy passage, said his spokeswoman, Melissa Wagoner.
 President Obama also strongly supports the legislation, the Office of Management and Budget said Wednesday, in the new administration's first official statement on the issue. 
 ''Cigarette smoking is the leading preventable cause of death in the United States and is a contributing factor to scores of diseases and conditions inflicting misery upon millions of our citizens,'' the administration statement said. ''Further, tobacco use is a major factor driving the increasing costs of health care in the U.S. and accounts for over a hundred billion dollars annually in financial costs to the economy.''
 As passed by the House the legislation would set up an F.D.A. office, financed by industry fees, with powers to restrict harmful chemicals in existing tobacco products -- including nicotine and possibly, after further study, menthol. The F.D.A. would also be empowered to approve or reject new tobacco products and to expand marketing restrictions and warning labels.
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and a main sponsor of the legislation, said it had taken more than a decade to regulate tobacco, since the F.D.A. first sought that power and the Supreme Court ruled it needed Congressional authority.
 ''We've come to what I hope will be an historic occasion, and that is finally doing something about the harm that tobacco does to thousands and thousands of Americans who die each year, and stopping the attempt to get our children to smoke,'' Mr. Waxman said during a two-and-a-half hour House debate Wednesday evening. ''It has taken us far too long to get to this point.''
 Last year the Senate did not act on its version of the House bill. The Senate was facing the triple threats of a filibuster, a Bush White House veto and a tight timetable, with only one month to act before adjourning for the election. But the Senate did have 60 sponsors last year, including Barack Obama, and now at least seven more Democrats are in the chamber. 
 ''The House's quick action gives the Senate plenty of time to act this year,'' said Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, the lead Washington advocacy group for the bill. The legislation is also supported by an additional 1,000 or so public health, medical, religious and other organizations.
 Nancy Brown, chief executive of the American Heart Association, said Thursday that she thought the Senate would act quickly. ''This has certainly been a passion of Senator Kennedy's and a legacy he can leave to the public health of America.''
 In the Senate, Mr. Burr, who has threatened a filibuster on the measure patterned after the House bill, has introduced an alternative bill that would promote ''reduced risk'' tobacco products rather than cracking down on new and older products. His home state, North Carolina, has an estimated 10,000 high-paying jobs in tobacco manufacturing and includes R. J. Reynolds Tobacco and Lorillard Tobacco, the nation's second- and third-largest cigarette makers. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry A. Waxman of California, a main sponsor of the bill to regulate tobacco, in his office.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (93%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); SMOKING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); TOBACCO FARMING (73%); PRODUCT LABELING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (78%); TED KENNEDY (74%); RICHARD BURR (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



123 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: European Bank Cuts Its Key Rate by a Quarter-Point

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The European Central Bankcut its benchmark interest rate Thursday less than was expected, while pledging to announce new, unconventional steps to try to revive bank lending and activity in May. 
 In a consensus decision, the bank's governing council decided to lower its benchmark rate to 1.25 percent, from 1.5 percent; most analysts had expected a move of half a percentage point. 
 It also cut its two other official rates in a bid to spur activity in the money markets. It lowered its deposit rate, to 0.25 percent from 0.5 percent, and cut its marginal lending rate to 2.25 percent from 2.5 percent. 
 ''It is not the lowest limit and I don't exclude that we could, in a very measured way, go down from that present level,'' the president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, said at a news conference in Frankfurt , when asked about the benchmark rate. It has now been cut by three percentage points since Oct 8. 
 Mr. Trichet noted that the bank had already enacted ''bold'' unconventional measures, like extending the duration and class of assets that it exchanges with banks for cash, showing ''the E.C.B. has the capacity to be nonstandard.'' 
 The central bank is being more cautious for now in enacting the kind of steps -- like buying government and corporate debt -- that central banks in the United States, Britain and Switzerland have committed to as a means of increasing the money in circulation and reviving lending. 
 One reason is that those actions, known as ''quantitative easing,'' carry inflationary risks. Another is that there are technical and legal reasons that make it complicated for the central bank to buy government bonds in the market. 
 ''The E.C.B. has come into line in terms of interest rates,'' said Neil MacKinnon, chief economist at the ECU Group, an asset manager in London. He said the deposit rate had become the most important interest rate for banks since the central bank started expanding its lending to banks. Mr. Trichet said there were no plans to push the deposit rate lower. 
 ''You could call it quantitative easing 'lite,' '' MacKinnon said. ''I'm not sure they'll go down the same route as the Bank of England and the Fed.'' 
 The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said this week that the central bank should continue to cut rates and introduce quantitative easing. Some analysts were disappointed that more steps were not announced Thursday after the vice president, Lucas Papademos, said earlier this week that the European Central Bank might offer lenders longer-term loans and could also buy corporate debt to improve the economy. 
 Speaking Thursday, Mr. Papademos said the central bank had made no decision ''concerning the need for these measures or the nature of these measures. The comments were not meant to prepare the market.'' 
 Mr. Trichet did not comment on the rate of the euro, which has been climbing in recent weeks, but ''exchange rate questions are not part of what we are presently discussing,'' he said. 
 The euro rose to $1.3433 in midafternoon trading Thursday in London, after the E.C.B. announcements, from $1.3265 early in the day. 
 On Wednesday, the European Union's statistical agency said that the euro area's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to 8.5 percent in February, from 7.2 percent a year earlier. 
 There are also mounting fears among analysts -- but less so from policy makers -- that the region may be on the verge of a deflationary spiral. 
 Annual inflation for the 16 euro zone countries fell to a record low of 0.6 percent in March from 1.2 percent in February. 
 Recent data from Germany, the largest economy in the region, have been especially soft. Retail sales fell by 0.2 percent on the month in February after a 0.9 percent fall in January. German engineering orders declined in February by 49 percent on the year, the steepest decline since 1958. 
 Meantime, Commerzbank cut its forecast for the German growth this week, projecting a contraction of 6 to 7 percent in 2009, from 3 to 4 percent. 
 There has been one tentative indication of stabilization. A purchasing managers' index for the euro area released Wednesday rose to 33.9 for March, from 33.5 in February. 
 Denmark's central bank lowered its benchmark interest rate Thursday by a quarter of a percentage point to a record low, as it defends its currency's peg to the euro.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet, head of Europe's central bank.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); BONDS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (70%); CORPORATE DEBT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



124 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: The Economic Summit

 BODY:
In normal times we don't expect a lot from summit meetings. But with the global economy imploding, leaders at Thursday's meeting of the world's top 20 economic powers had an urgent responsibility to come up with concrete policies to fix the global financial system and restore growth. They fell short. 
 The meeting certainly produced more than the usual photo ops and spin -- and its participants did not go away yelling at one another as they have in the past. The leaders pledged to fight protectionism and to help badly battered developing countries and -- putting their money where their mouths are -- committed $1 trillion for loans and trade guarantees. The group also agreed to crack down on tax havens and, on a country-by-country basis, impose stricter financial regulations on hedge funds and rating agencies -- necessary though insufficient steps to avoid a repeat of the current disaster. 
 Where they fell dangerously short was their refusal to commit to spend the hundreds of billions of dollars in additional fiscal stimulus that the world economy needs to pull out of its frighteningly steep dive. With consumer spending and business investment collapsing around the world, rich countries are the only ones that have the resources to do what is needed. 
 European leaders -- most notably Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel -- made clear going into the meeting that they were not going to give in on that issue. German politicians are historically afraid of touching off inflation with too much deficit spending. But inflation is not the danger Europe faces today, and German history should make them equally wary of the disastrous consequences of a new depression. 
 President Obama has rightly warned the Europeans that they cannot count on American consumer spending alone to drive a global recovery. But he apparently decided that a battle would be too destructive. 
 After years of watching former President George W. Bush hector and alienate this country's closest friends, we were relieved to see Mr. Obama in full diplomatic mode. We fear, however, that this is not the time or the issue on which to hold back. If world growth continues to decline -- and all signs suggest that it will -- the president will have to take on this fight soon. 
 Stimulus spending wasn't the only area of fundamental disagreements. The Europeans came to the meeting stressing the need for comprehensive cross-border regulation of financial markets, participants and products. Mr. Obama and his team seem more committed to domestic regulation than their predecessors -- but fiercely resistant to the idea of a global regulator.
 The group compromised with its call for more transparency and better early-warning systems for systemic risks. We suspect that it will take considerably more than that to reassure investors that markets are safe.
 The world's wealthy nations must come to a common understanding of the causes of this crisis and a common vision of the future role of financial markets. From there, they need to write new rules and regulatory regimes that address the real dangers. In the end, necessary regulation will not be transnational enough for European tastes and too binding for American tastes. When both sides grumble about the result, rather than praise it, you will know that progress is being made. 
 The British prime minister, Gordon Brown, declared at the meeting's end that ''this is the day the world came together to fight back against the global recession.'' As host, he had to. To pull out of the current crisis, it will take a lot more than was done in London. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); TAX FRAUD (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



125 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Schnabel's Picasso Headed to Market

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
In 1989, years before the craze for late Picassos hit the art world, the artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel bought ''Femme au Chapeau,'' an unusually large canvas (it is more than six feet tall) of a wide-eyed woman that Picasso painted on Aug. 26, 1971, when he was nearly 89.
 Until recently the painting hung in Mr. Schnabel's living room in Palazzo Chupi, his much-publicized neo-Mediterranean development on West 11th Street in Greenwich Village, where he lives and works, surrounded by many of his own canvases. 
 But now Mr. Schnabel has decided to sell it at a Christie's auction on May 6, when it is estimated to bring $8 million to $12 million. 
 ''It's both a figure and a landscape,'' he said, referring to the way Picasso depicted a bold female figure in the foreground and darker brushstrokes behind. 
 It was Tuesday afternoon, and Mr. Schnabel had just flown in from London for a few days before jetting off to Israel, where he will begin filming ''Miral,'' his next movie, about an orphanage in Jerusalem founded around 1948. 
 Asked why he has decided to part with his beloved Picasso, Mr. Schnabel, who has made no secret of the fact that he has empty apartments to sell in Palazzo Chupi, said: ''I've had it for 20 years. When I built this place, I put a lot of money into it, and I don't want to be in a rush to sell the triplex or the other floor.'' Mr. Schnabel also took out a loan with Commerce Bank, pledging part of his art collection, including the Picasso, as collateral. 
 ''The sale of this painting will take care of that loan,'' he said. 
 Timing is everything. Mr. Schnabel said he knew that ''Picasso: Mosqueteros'' (or Musketeers), an exhibition of the artist's late paintings organized by John Richardson, the Picasso biographer, would be on view at the Gagosian Gallery in Chelsea. The gallery had requested his painting for the show, Mr. Schnabel said, but he decided to sell it at auction instead. 
 It is a powerful canvas but also a curious one. The woman is depicted with haunted, almond-shaped eyes and flowing dark hair, but also with some strange features, like a 5 o'clock shadow on her chin.
 ''There is a weirdness to some of these late paintings,'' Mr. Richardson said. ''Many of these paintings were about androgyny.'' 
 Mr. Richardson acknowledged that Gagosian had wanted to include the painting. ''It's very strong and has Jacqueline's dark hair,'' he said, referring to Jacqueline Roque, Picasso's second wife and one of his many muses. ''It also has Picasso's eyes, so it's partly a self-portrait.'' 
 The painting's provenance is also noteworthy. Mr. Schnabel bought it directly from Bernard Ruiz-Picasso, one of the artist's grandsons. ''Bernard let me go to a vault in Paris, where I picked it out,'' Mr. Schnabel said. ''It was the most austere, the most structured and least decorative.''
 When the painting goes on view at Christie's on May 1, it will be the first time it has been publicly exhibited since it was included in a show of Picasso's work in Avignon, France, that opened in May 1973. Although that show opened a month after Picasso died, the artist picked all the paintings for it himself, including ''Femme au Chapeau.'' 
 40 GIFTS
 To the Morgan
 In the late 1980s the artist Jim Dine produced a series called the ''Glyptotek Drawings,'' so named because most of the works were created at the Glyptothek Museum in Munich. Inspired by the Greek and Roman sculptures there, they are the artist's modern vision of these ancient relics. The series has been shown at a number of institutions, including its namesake, as well as the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Mo., and the Madison Museum of Contemporary Art in Wisconsin. 
 In an essay Mr. Dine recalled creating the series: ''The museum was closed, there was no noise, there was nobody, no distractions, just a guard who let me in and out, and it was night, so I relied on artificial light,'' he wrote. ''I was focusing on something not alive. I was trying to bring the statues to life, but it was a lot easier than a live person, way easier. They didn't move and since they didn't move, and I was alone, I could look as long and as hard as I needed to in a place that was closed off and silent. In a certain way it was the optimal situation.'' 
 Recently Mr. Dine decided to give the series of 40 drawings to the Morgan Library & Museum. It has a world-class collection of old master drawings and is trying to strengthen its holdings in 20th-century art. 
 ''The best gifts are unsolicited,'' said William M. Griswold, director of the Morgan. He explained that he did not know Mr. Dine, who simply made an appointment to see him. (A Dine drawing, ''Blind Owl,'' from 2000 is now on view as part of the show ''The Thaw Collection of Master Drawings: Acquisitions Since 2002.'') It was at that first meeting that he offered to give the series to the Morgan. 
 ''It makes perfect sense for us,'' Mr. Griswold said. Since all 40 drawings are conceived as a single work of art, he is studying the museum's exhibition schedule to see when they can all be shown together. 
 IN WASHINGTON,
 An Acquisition
 The National Gallery of Art in Washington has acquired its first painting by Norman Lewis, the African-American artist who died in 1979. He was perhaps best known for his ''Black Paintings,'' a series of Abstract Expressionist works he produced from 1946 through 1977, which includes the gallery's acquisition, ''Untitled (Alabama)'' from 1967. 
 ''I'm a big fan and a scholar of Abstract Expressionism,'' said Harry Cooper, the gallery's curator of contemporary art. ''I thought it was important to get one of his great paintings.'' 
 The work was included in a traveling exhibition organized by the Studio Museum in Harlem, which showed it in 1998. It is essentially a black canvas punctuated by white, flamelike strokes, and is thought to be the artist's visual musing on the horrors of race riots and murders in the South. 
 Mr. Cooper bought the painting from the Bill Hodges Gallery in New York for an undisclosed price with money from the National Gallery's Collectors Committee, which supports acquisitions for Modern and contemporary art. ''Untitled (Alabama)'' is expected to go on view on the concourse level of the East Building in the next few weeks. 
 IN SAN FRANCISCO,
 Plans to Expand
 Despite the economy, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art is going ahead with plans to double its gallery space and consolidate its offices, 60 percent of which are now housed off site. 
 Plans for an expansion call for a new wing on a site to the southwest of its existing 1995 building, which was designed by the Swiss architect Mario Botta. The location is on a dead-end street that incorporates a small building the museum bought two years ago. 
 Although Arthur Gensler, founder of the architectural firm that bears his name and vice chairman of the museum's board, has created an initial plan, museum officials refuse to say how much they estimate the project will cost to build and operate. 
 ''It's essential we take things one step at a time,'' said Neal Benezra, the museum's director. ''We want to define our plans to the city and get our ducks in a row.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Picasso's ''Femme au Chapeau'' (1971) is going up for auction.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (55%) NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%); MEDITERRANEAN (57%); ISRAEL (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



126 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Using a Laugh to Invite a Taste

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
REMEMBER that ''reset'' button presented by Hillary Clinton to the Russian foreign minister? A major food maker is pushing its own version on a leading brand.
 ConAgra Foods began on Thursday an ambitious effort that seeks to reintroduce to consumers the Healthy Choice line of frozen meals and other products. The multimedia initiative has a budget estimated at $90 million to $100 million -- a hefty sum in good times, much less during a downturn when many marketers are slashing advertising spending.
 The reintroduction seeks to stir interest in a brand that was considered pioneering when it reached stores in 1989 because of ingredients and recipes that were intended as, well, healthier choices than offered by traditional packaged foods. By 1993, Healthy Choice was described by the trade publication Advertising Age as ''the most successful new food brand introduction in two decades.'' 
 But 20 years can be a lifetime in the crowded, fast-paced realm of consumer products, particularly in prosaic categories like packaged foods in which shoppers crave ''news'' in the form of innovation and variety.
 For instance, according to Zeta Buzz, a tool used by the Zeta Interactive agency in New York to survey blogs, message boards and online communities, there were only 1,253 posts about the Healthy Choice brand in the last 90 days compared with 2,193 for a primary competitor, the Lean Cuisine brand sold by a unit of Nestle.
 The goal is ''breaking through the fog of familiarity consumers have with the brand,'' said Joan Chow, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at ConAgra in Omaha.
 (''It's very appropriate to work at a food company,'' Ms. Chow said of her surname.)
 So the changes to Healthy Choice include new products, among them a line of All Natural Entrees with chi-chi names like pumpkin squash ravioli and portabella marsala pasta.
 The packaging, by the Northbrook, Ill., office of Brandimage Desgrippes & Laga, is new. The redesign is centered on a new brand symbol, an exclamation point, meant to signal ''surprisingly great taste,'' Ms. Chow said.
 There is also new advertising by the New York office of Nitro, featuring the actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus, in a series of humorous commercials. The spots echo the episodic form of the sitcoms for which she is known like ''The New Adventures of Old Christine'' and ''Seinfeld.''
 The expectation is that the serial spots will be ''a great way to keep consumers engaged and cut through the clutter,'' said Carlos Veraza, vice president and general manager for the frozen division of ConAgra.
 The premise of the commercials, which are directed by Christopher Guest, is that Ms. Louis-Dreyfus is not really sure whether she wants to endorse Healthy Choice.
 ''It's a 'meta' thing,'' said Kathy Delaney, president and chief creative officer at Nitro, ''advertising imitating life imitating advertising.''
 The device enables the spots to convey information about Healthy Choice in a way that ''never feel forced,'' Ms. Delaney said, as Ms. Louis-Dreyfus and other characters discuss the reinvention.
 In one commercial, for example, Ms. Louis-Dreyfus is reluctant to try a meal but declares after a few bites, ''This Healthy Choice stuff has changed.''
 The other characters include Ms. Louis-Dreyfus's feckless agent, played by Don Lake, and a friend, played by Jane Lynch, who criticizes her dining habits by comparing her to a dog eating peanut butter. Mr. Lake and Ms. Lynch are part of the repertory company in films directed by Mr. Guest like ''Best in Show'' and ''A Mighty Wind.''
 The campaign also includes prominent placement on the Yahoo Web site, known as a home-page takeover; video clips and other materials on a special Web site (spokespersonwanted.com); and a revamped version of the Healthy Choice Web site (healthychoice.com). The digital work is being handled by Bridge Worldwide in Cincinnati.
 ''Healthy Choice is a brand that had kind of lost its relevance and really needed a shake-up,'' Ms. Delaney said. ''This will make people sit up and take notice that it's not the same old Healthy Choice.''
 The effort seeks to take advantage of a major trend that has come out of the recession: Consumers are economizing by forgoing restaurant meals in favor of eating at home.
 ''It's a trend that's helping our business,'' Mr. Veraza acknowledged.
 As happy as that is making marketers of packaged foods like ConAgra, General Mills, Kellogg, Kraft Foods and Nestle, they are confronting a cross-current: Those same consumers are economizing further by trading down when they shop, forgoing name brands for cheaper store brands and private-label products.
 The answer, Mr. Veraza said, is to emphasize that Healthy Choice offers value as well as convenience because ''on average, a Healthy Choice meal goes for about $3.''
 And each product in the new All Natural Entrees line will have a suggested retail price of $2 to $2.49. That may help Healthy Choice in fending off a price-cutting effort by Lean Cuisine.
 There is also a charitable aspect to the Healthy Choice reintroduction as the brand and the ConAgra Foundation donate $250,000 to Feeding America, the organization formerly known as Second Harvest.
 Several large food brands have been including such elements in new campaigns in a belief that altruistic approaches can resonate with consumers in tough times. Among others are Mott's and Quaker Oats.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julia Louis-Dreyfus is featured in ads providing information about Healthy Choice, in a humorous way. The spots echo the episodic form of the TV shows for which she is known. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); PACKAGED GOODS (90%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD PACKAGING (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); FROZEN FOODS (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); FOOD MFG (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (50%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (95%); NESTLE SA (54%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (95%); NESN (SWX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (95%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (95%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (95%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (95%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); NEBRASKA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



127 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: No Laughing Matter at the Office

 BODY:
It sounds like a grim sweatshop joke, but the federal agency that's supposed to enforce justice in the American workplace has been found in willful violation of its own workers' rights. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has been blithely violating the Fair Labor Standards Act, according to an arbitrator who found that the agency has been forcing its employees to work overtime and not paying them for it. Instead, according to the arbitrator, the agency concocted a ''fiction'' that its workers ''requested'' only compensatory time instead. 
 The ruling is one more reminder of how the Bush administration gutted every regulatory agency it could get its hands on. The administration apparently saw no political advantage in doing something about helping workers who dared to complain about bias. On an immediate level, the arbitrator is presenting the Obama administration with another high-agenda item for its long list of government repairs.
The E.E.O.C. -- once a credible investigator of workplace grievances -- lost about a quarter of its staff across the Bush years. The commission shed investigators, lawyers and labor specialists -- even as it was increasingly swamped 
 EDITORIAL
 with complaints from workers in the private sector. In 2008, there were 95,400 allegations of job bias, a rise of 26 percent in just two years. Given the current economic agonies, the toll continues to rise. 
 President Obama touched on the E.E.O.C.'s problems in the campaign. Now that he is in the White House, he needs to repair, replenish and demand a major attitude change forthwith. And Congress needs to provide full support to restore the E.E.O.C. to something more than a laughingstock. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); COMPENSATORY TIME OFF (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); OVERTIME (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



128 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: NATO to Celebrate Past as Uncertainty Awaits in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and STEVEN ERLANGER; Thom Shanker reported from Washington, and Steven Erlanger from Berlin.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
NATO leaders will meet in Strasbourg, France, on Friday to celebrate the 60th anniversary of an alliance that deterred the Soviet Union, opened the door to emerging democracies, battled ethnic cleansing and now welcomes the return of France as a full member. But they also must face the harsh reality that NATO's first military mission outside Europe is failing in a way that risks fracturing the alliance.
 As President Obama takes ownership of the fight against Al Qaeda and its Taliban allies, aides say he is determined to turn around the war in Afghanistan with a regional approach, recognizing that the stability of neighboring Pakistan, where Al Qaeda hides, is increasingly at risk. Mr. Obama is trying to fashion an efficient counterinsurgency strategy, as in Iraq, with a comprehensive surge of military and civilian reinforcements. 
 But his increasing American troops in Afghanistan to some 68,000 by the end of the year, from 38,000 today, is also likely to significantly Americanize an operation that in recent years had been divided equally between American troops and allied forces. By year's end, American troops will outnumber allied forces by at least two to one. 
 His NATO allies are giving the president considerable vocal support for the newly integrated strategy. But they are giving him very few new troops on the ground, underlining the fundamental strains in the alliance. 
 The allies will offer more funds but no more than several thousand new personnel members, according to alliance military planners. Many of those will not be soldiers, but police trainers to meet a central pillar of the president's new Afghan strategy, which focuses on an expansion of Afghan security forces. But even for the small numbers of European combat reinforcements, check the fine print: Nearly all will be sent to provide security for Afghanistan's elections this summer, and will not be permanently deployed.
 The war in Afghanistan was the first time that NATO invoked its Article 5, which requires collective defense of a member under attack. It was an important signal of support for the United States after Sept. 11, 2001, and maintaining the alliance was always considered more important than the inefficiencies of the effort, where each national parliament could decide what its troops could do. But Mr. Obama's approach reflects a decision that to salvage the war now requires a dominant American role.
 ''As a candidate, Obama had expectations that Europe would make a serious increase in troop levels after he became president,'' said Charles A. Kupchan of the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington. ''But there is a realization now that Europe's main contribution will be police trainers, economic assistance and development assistance.''
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and his British counterpart, John Hutton, have publicly warned that the performance of some European troops demonstrates that NATO risks slipping toward a two-tiered alliance. In that event, it would be divided between those that can and will fight, like Britain, Canada, France and Poland, and those that cannot or will not because of public opinion at home.
 In many cases, European capitals have placed severe restrictions on their forces assigned to NATO's International Security Assistance Force, or I.S.A.F. That has been such a hindrance to the war effort, in the view of some American commanders, that they ruefully say the alliance mission's initials now stand for ''I Saw America Fight.''
 To be sure, a number of NATO and other partner nations have sent troops to Afghanistan who have fought and died in percentages larger than those of the American military. Australian, British, Canadian, Dutch and French conventional forces have shed much blood, and commando units from some of the smaller, newer NATO allies in the Baltics have punched far above their weight, according to American Special Operations commanders.
 But even in allied countries whose soldiers have fought so well, public opinion does not support an increase of troops sent to what seems to be an endless war far away in a country that has always ejected foreign occupiers.
 Under Mr. Obama's plan, the United States is scheduled next year to take over from the Europeans the command in southern Afghanistan, which has seen the worst resurgence of violence. The United States will retain the command in fiercely contested eastern Afghanistan, across from Pakistan's lawless tribal areas, where Richard C. Holbrooke, the special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, has said that Osama bin Laden and important Qaeda leaders reside. 
 That means that by next year, the allies will be in charge only in the relatively combat-free northern and western regions.
 Mr. Obama and Mr. Holbrooke understood early on that European members of NATO would not provide many troops beyond the approximately 30,000 already there, led by Britain, Germany and France. Instead, the Europeans will focus on the training of the police, of the army and of the civilian administration. The new goal, according to American military planners and NATO-nation diplomats, is to produce an Afghan Army of some 220,000 troops and an enlarged police force of 180,000.
 What Afghanistan needs, a senior German official said, is not more foreign soldiers but more Afghan troops and police officers. Germany is sending in new police mentoring teams, and several hundred more police officers and gendarmes will come from France, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Spain, according to the French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner. France is trying to coordinate a second pillar of the European police force in Afghanistan to do training in the countryside for periods of up to 11 months. That project, which European officials say is more efficient than trying to send local police officers to Kabul, can have a European label. 
 Europeans will also concentrate on the ''civilian surge'' to help create functioning Afghan political, judicial and security structures in the countryside. 
 Daniel P. Fata, the Pentagon's senior official for European and NATO issues during the Bush administration, said that Mr. Obama must not lower the NATO flag in Afghanistan, as that might provide allies an excuse to go home. ''No European country wants to be the first to leave Afghanistan,'' said Mr. Fata, a vice president with the Cohen Group, a global business consulting practice. ''But many would be happy to be the second, third or fourth.''
 Europeans praise the new policy, which ''includes for the first time the words 'exit strategy,' '' another senior German official said. ''But if the real problem is in western Pakistan, for that no one -- not Europe and not the U.S. -- has any easy answer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Police officers and members of security forces in Kehl, Germany, prepared for the meeting of NATO leaders on Friday in neighboring Strasbourg, France.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TORSTEN SILZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); TALIBAN (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); JOHN HUTTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALSACE, FRANCE (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



129 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: World Leaders Pledge $1.1 Trillion to Tackle Crisis

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and DAVID E. SANGER; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Struggling to bridge deep divides over how to revive a paralyzed global economy, the leaders of the world's largest economies agreed Thursday to bail out developing countries, stimulate world trade and regulate financial firms more stringently. But President Obama conceded that there were ''no guarantees'' that those measures would reverse the biggest global downturn in six decades.
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, host of the Group of 20 summit meeting called to fight the crisis, announced at its conclusion that the leaders had committed to $1.1 trillion in new funds that would greatly increase the capital available to the International Monetary Fund. The goal would be a revival in trade, which is expected to contract this year for the first time in 30 years.
 But the combination of loans and guarantees fell short of an injection of fresh fiscal stimuli into the economic bloodstream -- the result of a stubborn division between Continental Europe and the United States over whether to act now or wait to see whether existing spending measures took effect. 
 Moreover, the final accord was far more forceful in addressing the plight of emerging economies that had been sideswiped by the financial crisis than it was in addressing the deep recession in the largest countries where the crisis began.
 The proposed remedies, some critics said, treat some peripheral effects of the crisis rather than its thorniest causes. On the critical question of how to grapple with trillions of dollars in ''toxic assets'' clotting the financial system in Europe and the United States, there was a declaration of goals but few specific actions.
 Still, the meeting eased fears that leaders would repeat the failure of a similar gathering in 1933, which was followed by a surge of protectionism that prolonged the Great Depression. It also gave Mr. Obama a high-profile debut on the world stage. He projected contrition about America's role in starting the meltdown, extolled global resolve to find a way to end the downturn and mediated a dispute between the presidents of France and China over tax havens. 
 ''Today, we've learned the lessons of history,'' Mr. Obama declared in a news conference in which he was noticeably relaxed, taking questions from journalists from India and China. But he also said that getting more than 20 countries to agree to common steps was particularly hard because ''each country has its own quirks.''
 The meeting, he said, exemplified the power of developing nations, heralding a new age in which decisions about the future of the global economy will no longer be made by an elite club of Western powers that have set the global rules since the Bretton Woods agreement in July 1944. 
 Mr. Brown, who organized the meeting in a hangarlike conference center in London, said: ''This is the day the world came together to fight against the global recession. Our message today is clear and certain: we believe that global problems require global solutions.''
 The most concrete step was a $750 billion reinforcement of the resources of the monetary fund, which has emerged from years of waning relevance to become the first responder in this crisis, lending billions of dollars in emergency loans to dozens of countries. 
 In addition, the leaders agreed to provide $250 billion in trade credits, needed to finance cross-border trade that has declined roughly 10 percent as a result of the credit crisis and the economic downturn.
 Among other steps Mr. Brown detailed were new regulations on hedge funds and rating agencies, as well as a crackdown on tax havens, which will be publicly identified and subjected to sanctions if they do not agree to share tax information with the authorities of other countries. A senior Obama administration official cautioned that the sanctions were ''future oriented.''
 Stock markets around the world, especially in emerging nations, rose in the hours leading up to the announcement.
 In the United States, however, investors seemed less cheered about a deal emerging from the Group of 20 than about an arcane change in American accounting regulations that would make it easier for banks to defer writing down the value of their most troubled toxic assets. Many financial experts had been hoping that world leaders would address how to dispose of those assets rather than leave bankers to use accounting changes to make them appear less crippling.
 ''The rich countries are in denial about the depth of the problems remaining in their financial sectors,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard. ''They want to congratulate themselves for taking all the right steps already, as if the only problem now is how to help emerging markets.''
 In the end, the leaders also papered over one of their most public disputes: whether countries around the world should commit to even greater fiscal stimuli than they had already enacted.
 France and Germany balked at American pressure, saying their social safety nets accomplished much of the goal. Mr. Obama largely surrendered the point, agreeing to vague wording that allowed nations the leeway of promising to take whatever steps were necessary for ''sustained growth.''
 The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, lavished praise on Mr. Obama, saying he ''pushed very hard to come to concrete solutions and to have a fruitful discussion.''
 The Group of 20 did agree on new global rules to govern the pay and bonuses of bankers. The leaders also agreed to ''name and shame'' countries that erected trade barriers, intended to resist growing protectionist sentiment.
 But a European push for sweeping global regulation of the financial markets was blunted, to a large degree, by the United States. While the leaders agreed to create a new Financial Stability Board to monitor the financial system for signs of risks, they stopped well short of giving regulators cross-border authority, something France has long advocated.
 Instead, the leaders agreed to more closely coordinate their regulation of ''systemically important'' financial institutions. They did not, however, agree on a mechanism to resolve cross-border disputes that might arise in the winding down of insolvent banks, an issue that might yet arise if global banks like Citigroup or Royal Bank of Scotland fell deeper in trouble.
 ''The regulatory part was close to a zero,'' said Simon Johnson, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 Mr. Johnson said that despite the failure to reach an agreement on more stimulus programs, he considered the meeting a success for Mr. Obama. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner had led the push to reinforce the monetary fund, and he won more than analysts had expected.
 In addition to its vastly larger financial resources, the monetary fund was given a mandate to act as an early warning system for financial risks.
 China is expected to contribute $40 billion. Japan and the European Union each pledged $100 billion. The United States has said it will contribute $100 billion, too, though that requires Congressional approval.
 In addition to $500 billion in loans, the Group of 20 approved a one-time issuance of $250 billion in Special Drawing Rights, the synthetic currency of the fund, which will be parceled out to all its 185 members.
 Reflecting the rise of China, India and other emerging nations, the leaders called on the fund to overhaul its management by 2011 to better reflect the economic weight of its member states.
 ''Today is the proof that the I.M.F. is back,'' said the fund's managing director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama said Thursday that America's interests were ''tied up with the larger world.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(A1)
 World leaders prepared for an official photograph at the Group of 20 meeting on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC FEFERBERG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(A15) CHART: Results of the G-20 Summit Meeting: Members of the Group of 20 announced a commitment of $1.1 trillion to aid the global economy. They also pledged increased support for regulation of the financial industry, control of illegal tax havens and fairness in compensation of financial executives.(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GORDON BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



130 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Deeply Split House Approves Budget, With No G.O.P. Votes

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House and Senate approved budgets of about $3.5 trillion for the government on Thursday with no Republican support, a sign of deep partisan tensions likely to color Congressional efforts to enact major policy initiatives sought by President Obama.
 On the heels of House approval of its spending plan for 2010, the Senate voted 55 to 43 shortly before midnight to adopt a similar budget after a day spent laboring over politically tinged amendments that did little to change a fiscal blueprint generally in keeping with Mr. Obama's ambitious agenda. 
 Democrats said the two budgets, which will have to be reconciled after a two-week Congressional recess, cleared the way for health care, energy and education overhauls pushed by the new president. The Democrats said the budgets reversed what they portrayed as the failed economic approach of the Bush administration and Republican-led Congresses.
 ''This responsible budget will start cleaning up the mistakes of the past and make critical investments in our future,'' Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, said.
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California said Democrats would like to find consensus with Republicans, but not at the expense of the infusion of federal money that the majority calls crucial in a time of economic distress.
 ''The American people want us to find our common ground where we can, but they did not send us here to split the difference,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ''They want real change, and we have come here to make a difference.''
 House Republicans, who offered budget alternatives featuring a domestic spending freeze and broad tax cuts, accused Democrats of encouraging runaway spending that would bloat the government, worsen the economy and pile government debt on future generations.
 ''Let's not do this to our kids,'' said Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, the No.3 Republican in the House. ''Let's not borrow from the next generation of Americans.''
 But House Democrats easily defeated Republican alternatives and won backing for their budget from all segments of their party, from conservative Blue Dogs to urban liberals. The 233-to-196 vote, though hardly overwhelming, actually reflected a strong show of Democratic support for the budget, since it often barely passes. It was the first time in a dozen years that a budget had received more than 230 votes. Twenty House Democrats opposed the budget; two Senate Democrats did.
 The chief Republican alternative, officially supported by the party leadership, was defeated 293 to 137, with 38 Republicans opposing it.
 The total lack of Republican backing for the Democratic plans was reminiscent of the House vote this year on the $787 billion economic stimulus program. But the budget's approval was nonetheless viewed as a victory for the new White House, particularly because most moderate and conservative Democrats went along with the president's push for more spending. 
 In the Senate, where lawmakers engaged in their annual ''vote-a-rama,'' discarding or approving piles of amendments, Democrats easily defeated an alternative offered by Senator John McCain of Arizona and a handful of fellow Republicans that would have essentially frozen federal spending except for the military. 
 ''We are just going on as if it were business as usual,'' said Mr. McCain, asserting that no family in America was increasing spending, while the federal government was. ''We can,'' he said, ''because we print money.'' 
 Among the amendments that won Senate approval was a bipartisan proposal that would raise the estate tax exemption by $1.5 million, to a total of $5 million, and reduce the tax's maximum rate by 10 percentage points, to 35 percent.
 Both the House and Senate budgets pared spending from the president's initial request and made other adjustments intended to reduce the annual deficit to less than $600 billion within five years, about half the $1.2 trillion projected for the 2010 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.
 Democrats acknowledged that the 2010 figure was not to their liking, but said that a recession was no time to slow federal spending.
 ''It is still way too high,'' said the House majority leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland. ''But to try to tamp down spending makes no sense when the economy is still struggling. We need the infusion of investment.''
 Both houses' budgets provide an avenue for Congress to pursue a broad new national health care policy, a climate change bill and alterations in education law as long as the committees responsible for those issues find a way to keep the programs from adding to the deficit. The budgets would also allow the expiration of Bush-era tax cuts for more affluent Americans but continue those benefiting the middle class.
 Budgets by their nature are partisan documents, amounting to a party's statement of ideological goals, expressed through spending on federal programs. But at least in the Senate, they can occasionally win some backing from the opposition party. That no House or Senate Republican joined Democrats and that Republicans heaped such tough criticism on the spending proposals made clear that enacting the various overhaul bills would be difficult.
 The unanimous Republican opposition could also spur Democrats to be more aggressive about including in the final budget a fast-track procedural maneuver that would protect health care and education legislation from Senate Republican filibusters. The House plan allows for the fast-track process, while the Senate version does not. But top Democratic officials said Thursday that they expected it to be part of the joint House-Senate budget, a prospect that could worsen the partisan warfare.
 This is a more complete version of the story than appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other House Democratic leaders before passage of a $3.6 trillion budget for the 2010 fiscal year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); HARRY REID (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



131 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: The Long Buildup Before the New Buildings

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Citi Field and the new Yankee Stadium are finally open, the culmination of nearly two decades when it appeared that no ballpark could possibly be built in New York City.
 The Yankees announced their intentions in the mid-1980s, regularly and loudly demanding a renovated home in the Bronx or a new stadium -- and threatening to leave for New Jersey if the city failed them. The Mets came next, nearly a decade later, quietly seeking a replacement for Shea Stadium.
 Plans were drawn and financing schemes proposed.
 Mayors -- including the Yankees fan Rudolph W. Giuliani -- entered and left office. 
 But recessions intervened. The era of financing ballparks with massive infusions of public money faded. Costs rose. And George Steinbrenner's indecision -- would he keep his Yankees in the Bronx, ship them to Manhattan's West Side or cross the river to New Jersey? -- not only delayed making a deal for his team, but one for the Mets as well.
 Meanwhile, 19 baseball teams opened new ballparks starting in 1990 -- and only one major sports facility was built in the five boroughs in that period: Arthur Ashe Stadium in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, the legacy of a tennis-loving mayor, David N. Dinkins.
 Before that, it was Madison Square Garden, which opened in 1968.
 Building new stadiums in New York would prove to be as complex and difficult as developing other megaprojects, partly because of the scrutiny on high-profile ventures with public investment.
 ''Starting with the fiscal crisis in the 1970s, we starved the public sector in building all sorts of infrastructure except for the Javits Center,'' said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University. He added, ''Elected officials were afraid of them and communities were apprehensive of them.''
 Still, there was no shortage of stadium plans, most of them for the fickle Yankees. 
 As the governor, Mario M. Cuomo proposed building a stadium and garage over the Long Island Rail Road yards on the West Side of Manhattan in 1993 and then, facing criticism, tacked weeks later to suggest a renovation of Yankee Stadium. 
 By 1996, Giuliani was pushing the West Side option as easy to finance, plus a new Mets stadium in Flushing -- a double-barreled proposal that he felt would help a New York bid for the 2008 Summer Olympics. Over two terms, he offered three financing plans, all with the city paying about half the cost of the stadiums. None advanced.
 Publicly, it appeared that satisfying the Yankees was the city's and the state's main priority. While Steinbrenner blustered about parking, safety, traffic and attendance in the Bronx, Fred Wilpon, the Mets' principal owner, never looked to move beyond Shea's parking lot.
 ''The Mets were on the radar,'' Cuomo said. ''I was talking to both teams, and it was my understanding that Fred should sit back and whatever the Yankees got would set a precedent for the Mets. He had nothing to lose. You couldn't do them simultaneously, it would have been too much, so we concentrated on the Yankees.'' 
 Jeff Wilpon, the Mets' chief operating officer, said the Mets were not on a parallel track with the Yankees until the team submitted a proposal for a $457 million, 50,000-seat, retractable-dome stadium next to Shea, with an Ebbets Field-like rotunda, in 1995. ''We weren't looking for the same dollars as they were, but something equivalent,'' he said.
 In 1998, Giuliani's plan to use the commercial rent tax to finance the city's half-share in the stadiums -- which died in a nasty political battle with the City Council speaker Peter F. Vallone -- was followed days later by Fred Wilpon unveiling a model of his ballpark.
 But neither Wilpon's miniature stadium nor the Yankees' second World Series championship in three seasons was capable of spurring ballpark construction.
 Giuliani tried to leave office at the end of 2001 -- three months after the Sept. 11 terror attacks -- with a grand slam: a nonbinding proposal to split the $1.6 billion cost of two stadiums. But his successor, Michael R. Bloomberg, quickly canceled the plan as impossible during a recession, and once again the stadium issue turned dormant.
 Jeff Wilpon said he is certain that absent the Sept. 11 attacks, Bloomberg would have proceeded with Giuliani's plan and stadium construction would have soon begun.
 Randy Levine, the Yankees' president, said: ''I realized the gravity of what was going on. There would be no direct city participation in the financing of the stadiums.'' 
 The realization prompted the Yankees in 2004 to develop a financing plan that had as its centerpiece the shifting of revenue that would normally be shared with other major league teams to pay for largely tax-exempt bonds that would be issued by the city.
 Here, the Yankees, in the city's view, moved aggressively past the Mets. By the spring of 2005, Daniel L. Doctoroff, then the deputy mayor for economic development, said in an interview, ''We were pretty close to a deal with the Yankees and nowhere with the Mets.'' Wilpon said, ''The Yankees kept moving on and we sort of held back.''
 But the baseball stadiums needed a catalyst and got one unexpectedly through a third stadium: the $2.2 billion football complex that was being planned by the Jets on the same West Side site that Cuomo had once recommended to the Yankees.
 The massive stadium was to double as an Olympic stadium if the city were chosen as the site for the 2012 Summer Games. But a state panel's rejection of the stadium in June 2005 sent the Bloomberg administration and Olympic officials racing for an alternative to satisfy the International Olympic Committee before it named the 2012 host city.
 They cast their eyes from Manhattan to Flushing, and, over a frantic few days, made a deal with the Mets for a ballpark that would expand to Olympic size in 2012 and contract afterward. The Mets had the deal whether the city got the Olympics or not.
 ''In three days we brought the Mets up to parity,'' Doctoroff said. The Yankees got their deal done over the same period, partly because of how close it had been to completion, and also agreed to host the Mets during the Olympics, if necessary. 
 Levine said that even without the Jets/Olympic stadium's demise, it would have taken little time to complete a Yankees deal. Wilpon agreed. ''If they did deals for the Jets and Yankees,'' he said, ''what were they going to say, 'You can't have anything'? ''
 The two stadium deals were announced in 2005 within three days of each other -- and three weeks later the 2012 Summer Games were awarded to London.
 Construction began in 2006 in Flushing and in the Bronx, and fans can now judge Bloomberg's sports legacy: ballparks that cost their teams $2.3 billion but were made possible by almost $1.2 billion in city and state-funded infrastructure and tax breaks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new Yankee Stadium, top, where fans strolled the Great Hall on Thursday, and Citi Field will be the sites of the Yankees-Cubs and Mets-Red Sox exhibition games Friday and Saturday.(PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (92%); MAYORS (90%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); SPORTS (67%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); OLYMPICS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (91%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



132 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: In Alaska, Calls for a New Senate Election

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Outrage among Republicans is building in Alaska over the Justice Department's apparent mishandling of its prosecution of former Senator Ted Stevens, a Republican, prompting calls for a new election to give him a chance to win back his seat without a legal cloud hanging over him. 
 ''There's a groundswell all over the state for a special election,'' said Wev Shea, a former United States attorney for the Alaska district who is now in private practice in Anchorage.
 ''Alaskans are appalled,'' said Mr. Shea, a Republican. ''They were robbed of 40 years of seniority in the U.S. Senate, and he was dragged through the mud by the power of the Department of Justice and its F.B.I.''
 Among those calling for a special election was Randy Ruedrich, the Republican Party chairman, who said in an e-mail message Thursday, ''A special election will allow Alaskans to have a real, nonbiased, credible process where the most qualified person could win.''
 On Wednesday, the Justice Department moved to drop all charges against Mr. Stevens, 85, citing what it called prosecutorial misconduct. He was convicted on seven felony counts of ethics violations just before he lost a bid for re-election in November. Judge Emmet G. Sullivan will determine whether to grant the department's motion at a hearing scheduled for Tuesday in Washington.
 The department's move astonished the political world and stirred up Alaska.
 Mr. Stevens was appointed to the Senate in 1968 and became the longest-serving Republican senator in history from any state. 
 He lost the election to Mark Begich, a Democrat, by fewer than 4,000 votes, less than 2 percent of the total. Alaska had not sent a Democrat to Congress in nearly three decades.
 Mr. Ruedrich, the Republican Party chairman, said Mr. Begich, a former mayor of Anchorage, should step aside. ''The only reason Mark Begich won the election in November is because a few thousand Alaskans thought that Senator Ted Stevens was guilty of seven felonies,'' he said in his e-mail message.
 In a statement, Mr. Begich indicated that he had no intention of stepping aside and that he did not expect a new election to be held. ''I got into the Senate race long before Senator Stevens's legal troubles began,'' he said, ''because Alaskans were looking for a change and a senator as independent as Alaska.
 ''Today, with our country in a severe recession, it's more important than ever that we have a senator focused on fixing our economy so Alaskans have the jobs they need to support their families. That is my job in the Senate, and I'm honored to serve Alaskans for the next six years.''
 Whether there is a new election or not, the bungled case against Mr. Stevens may reopen those against a dozen other people who were caught up in the same sweeping corruption investigation that now appears to have been flawed. Twelve people were charged, 11 have been convicted and one is awaiting trial.
 Mr. Begich's election helped enlarge the Democrats' majority in the Senate. At the moment, with the Senate race in Minnesota still undecided, the Democrats have 58 votes, which includes two independents who usually vote with them. That means Democrats are two votes shy of the 60 needed to overcome a filibuster. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Department of Justice moved this week to drop all charges against Ted Stevens.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); FELONIES (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGAL ETHICS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: TED STEVENS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



133 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: On a Scale of 1-10, G-20 Scores a 7

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS and CHRISTOPHER HUGHES

 BODY:
The G-20 deserves a mark of seven out of 10. The London summit meeting, which concluded Thursday, hasn't solved everything. But it has made important strides in both battling the current crisis and preventing future ones.
 The score comes by grading the world's leaders on the top 10 issues the G-20 faced. Each issue was scored with a zero, half a point or a whole point. But note that this is not a finely calibrated exercise. Zero doesn't mean the G-20 achieved absolutely nothing; equally, a whole point doesn't mean perfection. 
 1.Fiscal stimulus: The free-spending Anglo-Saxons retreated from a plan for even higher deficits under pressure from continental European nations led by Angela Merkel of Germany. Even President Obama and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain realized that a policy of borrowing and spending has its limits. A good result. (1 point)
 2.Making banks healthy: The G-20 nations say they are committed to getting toxic assets off bank balance sheets. But the United States plan is still only a half-plan, and much of continental Europe seems in denial. Meanwhile, the deep recession may be making the problems worse. ( 1/2 point)
 3.Trade imbalances: Few changes would do more to improve the world's long-term financial health than reducing excessive trade deficits and surpluses. The United States and Britain's deficits are too large, as are the Chinese and German surpluses. But the leaders could barely manage to pay lip service to this problem. (0 points)
 4.Fighting protectionism: The talk was excellent. Everyone is in favor of low trade barriers for other countries. But a tangible commitment to roll back some of the latest home-market-first laws and rules, like the Buy America provision in Mr. Obama's stimulus legislation, would have been welcome. ( 1/2 point)
 5.Increasing the International Monetary Fund: The promise to give an extra $500 billion to the I.M.F. should help soften the blow on emerging markets. But the multinational bank has yet to show it can disburse the additional money quickly and wisely. ( 1/2 point)
 6.Trade finance: An agreement to make $250 billion available for trade credit addresses one of the most important and most suffering sectors. World trade is plummeting partly because exporters cannot get guarantees that they will be paid. Assuming the money comes through, the poor who need it most will get valuable help. (1 point)
 7.Preventing financial crises: The G-20 expressed a strong commitment to stop future bubbles. The authorities will watch the growth of credit and stamp on it. They will also regulate financial institutions more intensively so they don't run amok. There is a move toward more regulation of hedge funds but it does not appear too heavy-handed. In the future, the banking world will be smaller, safer and duller. Not bad at all. (1 point)
 8.Tax havens: These really had nothing to do with the current crisis. But a crackdown on tax havens is still welcome, particularly because governments are going to need every cent they can get in future years to fill their budgetary chasms. (1 point)
 9.Confidence: An acrimonious conference would have shaken consumers, businesses, investors and bankers. Despite childish threats of a walkout by Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, concord was maintained. The united front may help confidence, and that is critical to economic recovery. (1 point)
 10.Exit strategy: If inflation is to be avoided and government borrowing isn't going to explode, the authorities need to move from stimulation to applying the brakes almost as soon as economies start to recover. The G-20 talked the talk on this. But investors will remain skeptical until they walk the walk. ( 1/2 point)
 All in all, across 10 issues the G-20 summit scored seven points. That's really not a bad achievement. But there remains a huge amount of work to do. The global economy is still extremely fragile. The world's leaders should not rest on their laurels.
 EDWARD HADAS and CHRISTOPHER HUGHES 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and Gordon Brown of Britain at the G-20 meeting in London.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF J. MITCHELL/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE (64%); EMERGING MARKETS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); GORDON BROWN (67%); ANGELA MERKEL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



134 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: On Big Stage, An Overture

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
In his debut on the international stage, President Obama presented himself as the leader of an America that can no longer go it alone, and as abiding by the protocol of a global new deal.
 It was a performance that ranged from mediating behind closed doors -- Mr. Obama personally intervened in a spat between the French and Chinese leaders -- to a carefully calculated news conference in which he reached deep into history, showed contrition for the failings of Wall Street, and forecast a road the world could no longer travel. Gone are the days, from Pax Britannica to Pax Americana, when Britain and the United States made the rules that others followed.
 ''If there's just Roosevelt and Churchill sitting in a room with a brandy, that's an easier negotiation,'' Mr. Obama said during his hourlong meeting with the international news media, during which he called on reporters from India and China to ask him questions. ''But that's not the world we live in, and it shouldn't be the world that we live in.'' 
 After more than 11 hours of meetings, Mr. Obama emerged Thursday from his first summit meeting with a handful of modest concrete commitments. He did not get much of what American officials had been hoping for, notably failing to persuade other countries to commit to more fiscal stimulus spending. 
 But he, along with the other world leaders present, did get a more forceful and detailed blueprint for a global recovery than a similar gathering 86 years ago, when an earlier generation failed to take collective action to counter the Great Depression. ''By being willing to accommodate European leaders on the need for better regulation of financial markets and emerging market leaders on their desire to have less protectionism,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a former China division chief at the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Obama ''has certainly guided the G-20 leaders to a positive outcome.'' 
 ''All in all, not a bad day's work,'' Mr. Prasad added.
 Mr. Obama's own assessment? ''Well, I think I did O.K.,'' he said, when asked by a reporter during a news conference to rate his performance. 
 In a premiere diplomatic tour that has already been scrutinized for every blemish, Mr. Obama has, thus far, gotten some not-so-good reviews -- several European news outlets complained that he seemed aloof -- and some raves. (President Nicolas Sarkozy of France called him ''very helpful.'')
 Mr. Sarkozy was referring to Mr. Obama the mediator. For a tense hour on Thursday, Mr. Sarkozy and President Hu Jintao of China were going back and forth about tax havens. In a large conference room at the Excel Center, surrounded by 18 other world leaders, the two men sniped at each other, according to officials in the room. 
 Mr. Sarkozy wanted the big communique produced by the Group of 20 to endorse naming and shaming global tax havens, maybe even including Hong Kong and Macao, which are under China's sovereignty. Unsurprisingly, Mr. Hu was having none of it. He appeared angry that Mr. Sarkozy was effectively accusing China of lax regulation, and that the French leader was asking China to endorse sanctions issued by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a club of wealthy nations that Beijing has yet to join.
 According to accounts provided by White House officials and corroborated by European and other officials also in the room, Mr. Obama escorted both men, one at a time, to a corner of the room, to judge the dispute. How about replacing the word ''recognize,'' Mr. Obama suggested, with the word ''note?''
 The result: ''The era of banking secrecy is over,'' the final communique said. ''We note that the O.E.C.D. has today published a list of countries assessed by the Global Forum against the international standard for exchange of tax information.'' Hong Kong and Macao did not appear on the list.
 It was not a Middle East peace accord. But Mr. Obama had his first moment as a statesman.
 For the news conference that followed, Mr. Obama took pains to project a cheerful, humble image to a world still alternately enraged and befuddled by a financial crisis that originated with American subprime loans. He called on reporters from other countries -- ''foreign,'' he said, before adding with a grin that they were foreign only to him. He bantered, dispensing with his propensity to filibuster and lecture. 
 Answering a question from a reporter from China, Mr. Obama managed to acknowledge that he had to care most about how American workers and companies were affected by globalization, while still making the argument for why globalization was in America's best interest. 
 ''Look, I'm the president of the United States. I'm not the president of China,'' Mr. Obama said. Then he added, ''It is also my responsibility to lead America into recognizing that its interests, its fate, is tied up with the larger world.'' 
 Mr. Obama said that if America neglected or abandoned poor countries, ''not only are we depriving ourselves of potential opportunities for markets and economic growth, but ultimately that despair may turn to violence that turns on us.''
 ''Unless we are concerned about the education of all children and not just our children, not only may we be depriving ourselves of the next great scientist who's going to find the next new energy source that saves the planet, but we also may make people around the world much more vulnerable to anti-American propaganda.''
 In a rare show of emotion from the international press, many in the room stood up and cheered after Mr. Obama was done.
 If Mr. Obama gauged that crowd just right, he also had a few gaffes. The Obamas gave Queen Elizabeth II an iPod loaded with songs and videos -- this after weeks of grief from the British press over the 25 DVDs that the couple gave Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain when he visited Washington. (The Browns gave the Obamas an ornate penholder made from the timber of a Victorian antislave ship.)
 And Michelle Obama, during the meeting with the queen, touched her, raising already high-brows over on this side of the pond. Buckingham Palace protocol says that commoners must not touch the queen, a dictate that foreign leaders in the past have ignored at their own peril. When Prime Minister Paul Keating of Australia did the same thing back in 1992 the newspapers here called him the ''Lizard of Oz.''
 But so high is the adulation that has been heaped on the Obamas from the normally caustic British press since their arrival that newspapers here said it was a sign of how well Mrs. Obama got along with the queen. In Mrs. Obama's defense, the queen did touch her first, putting her arm around her as the two looked down at their feet, presumably talking about shoes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama attended the Group of 20 summit meeting in London on Thursday, and then after the meeting he held a news conference, inviting questions from Indian and Chinese journalists. Many reporters stood up and cheered afterward. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); HU JINTAO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



135 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Fuzzy Picture Of Taxes, Spending And Debt

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Democrats say their budget would provide a tax cut for 95 percent of Americans. Republicans say the Democrats' budget ''spends too much, taxes too much and borrows too much.'' 
 Wondering who is right? There is no simple answer. 
 In the short term, most Americans can expect to pay lower taxes, largely because of the economic stimulus legislation signed into law in February, which includes a tax rebate of $400 for individuals earning up to $75,000 and $800 for couples earning up to $150,000. 
 The debate in Congress is really over what happens beyond 2010, when President Obama's plans call for ending the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, while also continuing the rebates and some other tax breaks in the stimulus law. 
 The picture is murky in part because the budgets advanced by Congressional Democrats on Thursday do not extend the rebates and provide only temporary relief from the alternative minimum tax for millions of middle-income families. 
 Even so, Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Budget Committee, said that over five years, his spending plan would deliver $825 billion in tax cuts. 
 ''I have heard some say we have all these tax increases,'' Mr. Conrad said in a speech on the Senate floor. ''That is not what the Congressional Budget Office says, when they look at my budget and look at all the proposals and compare it to current law. They conclude that I am providing $825 billion of tax reduction.'' 
 Republicans, meanwhile, insist that the Democrats would raise taxes by $1.4 trillion over 10 years, including a plan to fight global warming by charging businesses fees for the emission of heat-trapping gases, which could generate $646 billion. 
 ''I describe their budget as the Bernie Madoff budget,'' the Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said, referring to the financier who pleaded guilty to running a multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme. ''Because they tinkered and hid all of the really serious proposals.'' 
 ''They talk about their energy tax, their cap and trade proposal, but you can't see it in here,'' Mr. Boehner said. 
 Indeed, while Mr. Obama accounted for the proposal in his budget, the plans in Congress did not attach specific numbers to the climate-change plan or to a plan for overhauling the nation's health care system and specify only that those initiatives not add to the federal deficit. 
 The budgets, after all, are really just outlines with details to be filled in later by Congressional committees. 
 Mr. Obama's proposal called for using some money from the carbon tax to make permanent his tax rebate, called Making Work Pay, in the stimulus. 
 ''What they are talking about now is what happens after 2010,'' said Roberton Williams of the Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan research institute. ''Do they make things in the stimulus bill permanent? Do they let the Bush tax cuts remain in place, and, if so, for how many people? No one is arguing to let the Bush tax cuts expire for everybody. The question is where do you draw the line.'' 
 The Democrats have drawn the line for American families earning $250,000 or more. Republicans have urged extending the Bush tax cuts for everyone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); EMISSIONS (68%); GUILTY PLEAS (63%); CLIMATE CHANGE (63%); PONZI SCHEMES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); KENT CONRAD (59%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BERNARD MADOFF (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



136 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's 'Teflon' President Nicked by Economic Slump

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
He has been called the Teflon president, the most popular president in the world, a leader who has survived scandal after scandal only to see his approval ratings rise to new heights.
 But with industrial production slowing badly and unemployment climbing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil may be showing some chinks in his seemingly impregnable armor, analysts say.
 As he took the world stage at the Group of 20 summit meeting in London on Thursday, he faces mounting challenges to his domestic popularity and perhaps to his status as one of the developing world's most forceful advocates. 
 At least three polls showing a recent drop in his stellar approval ratings and a rush of controversy over comments he made last week, in which he blamed ''white people with blue eyes'' for the economic crisis, could be signs that Mr. da Silva, known as Lula, is mortal after all, analysts said. 
 ''The prospect that Brazil's economic and social gains could be undercut by the global crisis could well dampen an enormously successful two-term presidency,'' said Julia E. Sweig, director for Latin American studies at the Council on Foreign Relations.
 Mr. da Silva still has an enviable following at home, but if the economic storm continues, it could erode that support much further and hamper his ability to pass the presidency in 2010 to his chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff, his chief of staff, analysts said. 
 At the economic summit this week, Mr. da Silva sought to establish Brazil as a global power, but ''the trick in London will be to hit the right substantive notes establishing Brazilian leadership without heaping too much scorn on those around him,'' Ms. Sweig said.
 Last week, Mr. da Silva heaped plenty of it. The economic crisis, he said, was caused by ''the irrational behavior of white people with blue eyes, who before seemed to know everything, and now have shown they don't know anything.''
 The comments might have caused only a mild stir in the presence of other Latin American leaders, who have roundly criticized bankers in the United States and Europe. But said in Brasilia with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain at his side, Mr. da Silva's comments raised hackles both at home and abroad. 
 ''This was to be Lula's big chance to show that he was the voice of reasonable, considered leadership,'' said Amaury de Souza, a political analyst who heads MCM Consultants in Rio de Janeiro. ''Now he can be accused of racism, which greatly weakens Brazil's claims in foreign policy.''
 Some analysts suggested that the Brazilian president, as he often does, may have been making his comments for the working poor, the core of his support. But the comments touched an open wound among Brazil's elites, who resent the popularity of Mr. da Silva, a former metal worker with a fourth-grade education. 
 It was not the first time he had flashed his anger about the crisis. After spending the better part of a decade growing its economy, taming inflation and saving more than $200 billion during a commodities boom, Brazil was seen as a model in the world economy. 
 ''Brazil's desire to be considered one of the major economic powers is part of this frustration that Lula has,'' said Johanna Mendelson-Forman, senior associate of the Americas program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''It's as if he is saying, 'Here I have made it as an economic power, and the world crashes.'''
 As the economic crisis unfolded in the United States and Europe last fall, Mr. da Silva played down the possibility of contagion in his country.
 ''There, the crisis is a tsunami,'' he said in October. ''Here, if it hits, it's going to be a little wave, not even big enough to surf on.''
 But now Brazil's economy is suffering. Its gross domestic product fell by 3.6 percent in the last quarter of 2008 from the third quarter, the worst drop of any Latin American nation. The country lost 654,946 jobs in December 2008, and 101,748 more jobs in January, according to the Labor Ministry. 
 The impact is exacting a political price. In March, Mr. da Silva suffered his first drop in popularity in over a year. 
 His approval ratings in some polls are still impressive, hovering above 70 percent, but they could fall below 50 percent if the economic slide continued, said David Fleischer, a political science professor at the University of Brasilia. 
 Mr. da Silva's team has impressed some economists with its efforts to try to stop the economic boat from leaking further. And despite the recent drop in popularity, few are counting out Mr. da Silva, one of Brazil's most resilient politicians. In 2006 he rebounded from scandal to win a runoff and secure his second term. Then the Supreme Court charged two top aides with corruption in 2007, but it failed to affect the president's popularity, which continued to rise.
 Even at the summit meeting in London, his stature seemed to follow him. 
 One Brazilian news organization showed video of President Obama reaching over to shake Mr. da Silva's hand. ''Here's my man, right here,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I love this guy. He's the most popular politician on earth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, whose normally high approval ratings have shown a drop in at least three polls.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANO MACHADO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); POLITICS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (90%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (88%) BRAZIL (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



137 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Grand Stage for Yanks, but at a Cost

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
On the day the Yankees took the field in the gleaming new house that has already stirred debate about the real estate boom and bust, the sun broke through early-day clouds, Derek Jeter gave the new digs a firm thumbs-up and a Steinbrenner (Hal) answered the ceremonial first question about the manager's job security.
 ''This is kind of an optimistic time right now; I haven't even thought of it,'' Steinbrenner, who inherited the title general partner from his dad, the Boss, said after a midafternoon workout. But he went on to mouth Big George's organizational mantra: Anything less than winning the World Series would be considered a failure. That ought to make the seat in Joe Girardi's state-of-the-art office feel familiarly hot. 
 Across the street from the hallowed grounds, inside the new ballpark, you couldn't shake the feeling that the original had given birth to a genetically engineered child. The decorative facade stretches tastefully around the top of the soaring upper deck, as it did in the original stadium. The 31,000-square-foot Great Hall between the exterior wall and the stadium interior is almost spatially disorienting. An especially nice touch is the glimpse of the No. 4 train rumbling by in the small opening between the otherwise majestic decked stands and the bleachers in right in an enclosed outfield overloaded with corporate signage. 
 The only missing piece of franchise grandiosity was No. 13 at third base. Rest assured, Alex Rodriguez will return and, like the new Yankee Stadium, will be even larger than he was in his previous life.
 Nobody was more attached to the old Stadium than Jeter, but he came into the interview room (more of an assembly, actually) after hitting his first batting-practice pitch over the fence, and called the new place a palace. 
 ''It looks like the old Stadium unless you look into the stands -- the stands are a lot bigger,'' he said.
 Is bigger necessarily better? Johnny Damon, whose best years were spent in the intimacy of Fenway Park, said that depends. ''In Boston, there isn't much land to expand, but it's still Fenway, still a pretty incredible place,'' he said. ''We were fortunate to get those parks.''
 He meant the centralized parkland that the less fortunate neighborhood no longer has, thanks to the cooperation of municipal politicians. But there is no doubt that the roughly 4 million fans who visit Yankee Stadium this season will appreciate the splendor of the throwback outer shell, the roomy concourses, the expanded cushioned seats, the multiple concession options that include calorie counts next to every item on the menu.
 Factoring most prices ($10 for a beer in a souvenir cup), that may be the most reliable deterrent in maintaining some level of recessionary cost control. The other obvious choice would be an obstructed $5 seat on a bench in the bleachers, where television screens have been built into a dividing wall that will allow fans to follow the ball as it rolls between Damon in left and Brett Gardner in center.
 No question, this is an impressive stadium. But when the broadcaster John Sterling told assorted guests outside the partnering Hard Rock Cafe to go take a look at the playing field because ''it will take your breath away,'' I thought, well, the old Stadium did a pretty fair job of that, too.
 Mets fans walking into Citi Field for the first time should be bowled over by the conversion from dowdy Shea, but Yankees fans haven't exactly been sitting in the city dump since 1923. 
 The new Yankee Stadium is not about improved atmosphere; it is about amenities -- and there are many. But in the context of New York's fiscal reality, are they worth what was taken from the neighborhood folk, the taxpayer subsidies and the unholy prices of the premium seats, a fair number of which remain available?
 ''I think if anybody in any business had known where the economy was going to go, they would have done things differently,'' Hal Steinbrenner said. ''There's no doubt that small amounts of our tickets might be overpriced.''
 While ''no doubt'' and ''might'' weren't quite the right word match, at least Steinbrenner admitted to something. The unsold seats that stand to create pockets of blue reminders of overreaching are the Yankees' problem. But the Steinbrenners have what they long wanted, while the players have computer screens at their dressing stalls inside a mall of a clubhouse that has a kitchen with two chefs, among places where reporters won't roam.
 When the Yankees rolled into the South Bronx by bus Wednesday night, the young lefty reliever Phil Coke couldn't believe his eyes when he saw the two stadiums, side-by-side, lit up. 
 ''I've never experienced anything like that before,'' he said.
 Of course, the demolition of the old Stadium is overdue. The neighborhood deserves at least some of its precious parkland back now that the house George M. Steinbrenner built with the help of the willing and the unwilling is officially open for business. 
 ''I would have to think that it's second to none,'' Jeter said.
 Or just what the Steinbrenners always demand of their Yankees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clockwise from top left: Fans during the Yankees' first workout at the new Stadium. The Magill family snapping a photograph as the old Stadium sat empty. Joba Chamberlain in right field with fans. The starting pitchers Chien-Ming Wang, left, and C. C. Sabathia.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (53%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (52%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (78%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



138 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Ire in Foreclosure Crisis Turns to a Home Builder

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A major home builder that helped fuel the country's building boom is now under attack for what some homeowners and builders say was its role in the bust that followed. 
 Several former homeowners spoke here on Thursday about their disenchantment with the builder, KB Home, at its annual shareholders' meeting. The speakers said the company had pushed them into high-risk, high-interest loans for homes they could not afford and eventually lost to foreclosure.
 During the meeting, a few dozen construction workers, many of whom had their work dry up when the home-building market imploded in Southern California, protested across the street. 
 ''I tried to communicate to the board members to try to do better for people in the future,'' one of the former homeowners who addressed the board, Santiago Ramos, said after the meeting.
 The meeting was closed to reporters. A KB Home spokeswoman, Heather Reeves, said in an e-mail message, ''We want every KB homeowner to know that we stand ready to assist them in any way we can to ensure that they are pleased with their purchase.''
 KB Home is one of the country's largest builders, accounting for 3.1 percent of new home sales in 2007, the latest year for which data is available, according to the National Association of Home Builders. The company had a joint lending venture with Countrywide Financial -- Countrywide KB -- that issued roughly 70 percent of the loans originated for the builder. The venture ended in 2005, but KB still has lending arrangements with other financial institutions.
 The protest on Thursday was the latest effort to draw attention to what critics say was KB's role in the foreclosure crisis. 
 The Laborers' International Union of North America, which represents construction workers, has filed complaints about the builder with the California attorney general. The union says KB engaged in ''deceptive practices'' and steered buyers toward its loans to control home prices, pushing interest-only loans to buyers who often did not understand what they were getting into.
 A state lawmaker from Southern California, where home values have plummeted and foreclosures have skyrocketed, has introduced a bill that would prohibit builders from lending money to homebuyers. 
 ''Builder-originated loans create an inherent conflict of interest,'' the lawmaker, Assemblyman V. Manuel Perez, a Democrat, said in an e-mail message.
 No state has such a law, said Sue Johnson, the executive director of the Real Estate Services Providers Council, a trade group.
 ''It would be disruptive to the home-building industry,'' Ms. Johnson said, adding that most home builders had loan arrangements with financial institutions.
 Timothy Lilienthal, a spokesman for PICO National Network, a religious group that has protested and organized around the foreclosure issue, said the criticism of KB reflected a broader unhappiness with banks.
 ''People are getting tired of banks, and bank accountability is a major theme we see coming forward,'' Mr. Lilienthal said. ''And KB was the originator of so many bad loans in California.''
 Mr. Ramos, a construction worker as well as a former KB homeowner, said company officials pushed him to sign an interest-only loan through Countrywide KB for the home he bought for $430,000 in 2005 in Hesperia, Calif., and threatened to sue him when he resisted.
 In her e-mail message, Ms. Reeves, the spokeswoman, said the company recognized that ''many Americans have been adversely impacted by current economic conditions.''
 ''That is why we are always working to assist buyers in finding the right home for their budget,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A protest was held Thursday in Los Angeles during KB Home's annual shareholders'meeting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); LEGISLATION (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (58%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



139 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Says It's Willing to File for Chapter 11

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors stated in a regulatory filing to the Treasury Department on Thursday that it is prepared to file for bankruptcy protection if it cannot restructure out of court.
 It echoes what G.M.'s new chief executive, Fritz Henderson, said this week, but marks the first time G.M. has officially disclosed to President Obama's auto task force that it was willing to consider such a step.
 In the progress report included in the regulatory filing , G.M. said it continued to ''strongly believe'' that an out-of-court restructuring would be the ''highest value outcome'' for its customers and the United States. 
 ''However, if the changes needed for long-term restructuring cannot be obtained out of court, the company is prepared and would consider in-court options,'' the company said.
 It said that possibility ''would be enhanced'' by the Obama administration's recent pledge to guarantee warranties on G.M. vehicles, and to ''provide support for a rapid emergence from any in-court process.'' 
 In its revitalization plan filed with the Treasury Department on Feb. 17, G.M. insisted that the risks of a Chapter 11 filing ''outweigh the benefits of a bankruptcy based approach'' to a restructuring. 
 But on Monday, President Obama said the Feb. 17 plan was not sufficient, and said G.M. would have to seek bankruptcy protection if it did not take rapid steps to significantly reduce its $63 billion in debt. The government set a June 1 deadline for G.M. to complete its work.
 Mr. Henderson said Tuesday that a Chapter 11 filing was ''certainly more probable'' unless G.M. can reach agreements with bondholders and the United Automobile Workers union.
 ''The change in language reflects the changed situation,'' said a G.M. spokesman, Tom Wilkinson. ''We still prefer to do this out of court, but if we can't, we will do it in court.''
 In the progress report, G.M. outlined the savings it would obtain if it can complete a deal with the U.A.W. In February, it said the union had agreed to grant a series of concessions to lower its labor costs by up to $1.1 billion.
 But those steps have not been taken because the two sides have not agreed on a way to reduce the $20.4 billion that G.M. is required to pay into a health care fund for its blue-collar retirees. 
 The U.A.W. has resisted completing a deal on that matter unless G.M. received concessions from its bondholders.
 Once a union agreement is reached, G.M., which spent $7.6 billion on hourly employee costs in 2008, forecast that its costs would drop to $6.5 billion this year and $5.4 billion in 2010. 
 By contrast, G.M. spent $18.4 billion on hourly employee costs in 2003, before it began a series of restructuring moves. That figure included $5.7 billion in legacy costs, like pension contributions and retiree health care.
 By 2010, G.M. estimated that its legacy costs would be less than $1 billion, and could drop to as little as $100 million in 2014, when it expects its total hourly employee costs to be $4.8 billion.
 The company stressed the need to reach agreements with the union and its bondholders.
 ''General Motors recognizes that its overall debt levels, especially given the current economic outlook, present significant risk to the success of its overall restructuring effort,'' the automaker said in the progress report.
 G.M. also made another revision in the economic forecast it made to Congress in December, when it initially sought federal assistance. Back then, G.M. forecast that the nation's gross domestic product would drop by 1 percent this year. It revised that to 2 percent in its February report, and said it now believed G.D.P. would drop by 2.6 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (79%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); BONDS (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



140 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks $3 Billion for Pakistani Military

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER; Eric Schmitt reported from Washington, and Thom Shanker from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a new effort to bolster Pakistan's fight against Al Qaeda and the Taliban, the Pentagon is proposing a plan to spend about $3 billion over the next five years to train and equip Pakistan's military. 
 The money would include up to $500 million in an annual emergency war budget that the Obama administration will submit to Congress next week, Pentagon officials said Thursday. The money would pay for helicopters, night-vision goggles and other equipment, and for counterinsurgency training for Pakistan's special operations forces and Frontier Corps paramilitary troops. 
 But some influential House Democrats who praised the idea of helping the Pakistani military said the new program, called the Pakistani Counterinsurgency Capability Fund, would circumvent the State Department's role in overseeing security assistance to international allies. 
 ''This extends a pattern of militarizing foreign assistance,'' Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat who leads the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in a telephone interview. 
 The new approach, which requires Congressional approval, would give responsibility to the Pentagon and its Central Command for consulting with Pakistan's military and determining what equipment and training it most needed to fight an Islamist militancy that is gaining momentum in the country's unruly tribal areas. The fund would also be used to replace equipment the Pakistani Army and the Frontier Corps lost in combat. 
 ''It is a specific fund designed, again, to help the Pakistani forces develop specific capabilities -- counterinsurgency capabilities,'' Gen. David H. Petraeus, the leader of the Central Command, told the House Armed Services Committee on Thursday. 
 General Petraeus and other senior American officials declined to provide details of the program until the administration sent Congress its budget request. 
 Military supporters of the program said it offered a speedier alternative to the traditional military assistance process overseen by the State Department, which critics say is slow to respond to the needs of a rapidly shifting counterinsurgency campaign. The traditional military aid program provides Pakistan about $300 million a year, but does not focus solely on counterinsurgency goals. 
 The new military assistance program would complement legislation calling for $7.5 billion in civilian aid over five years proposed by Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts and Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the top Democrat and Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee. 
 The United States has provided Pakistan with more than $12 billion in military and economic assistance since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, including about $1 billion a year to reimburse Pakistan for fielding 100,000 forces along its border with Afghanistan. American lawmakers have complained that much of that money has disappeared into Pakistani government coffers with scant accountability and little progress to show. 
 Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, acknowledged Thursday that the United States had not imposed sufficient accountability measures on the money.
 ''There hasn't been an audit trail, and there haven't been accountability measures put in place, and there needs to be for all the funds,'' Admiral Mullen said in an interview with the editorial board of The New York Times. ''So we're going to do that. For this counterinsurgency money, which is important, it is critical that it goes for exactly that and nowhere else.''
 Admiral Mullen, who has worked extensively to build a relationship with the Pakistani army chief of staff, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, noted that the Pakistani military had difficulties transforming from a military that recruited, trained, deployed and promoted its officers based on performance along the eastern front with India to one that focused instead on terrorists and insurgents within its own borders. ''That's not going to change overnight,'' he said.
 Insurgents and terrorists operating in Pakistani safe havens are plotting attacks against targets in both Afghanistan and Pakistan, the admiral said. ''The Taliban, in particular, are going both ways now,'' he explained. ''They are coming toward Islamabad and they are actually going toward Kabul. I'm completely convinced that the vast majority of the leaders in Pakistan understand the seriousness of the threat.''
 Admiral Mullen also cited the significance of the Congressional legislation to increase civilian aid to Pakistan, which President Obama has endorsed. The admiral said that aid would be seen as a positive sign of American long-term commitment to Pakistan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. David H. Petraeus testifying on Thursday before the House Armed Services Committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY PREMACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (72%); AUDITS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); HELICOPTERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); DAVID PETRAEUS (76%); DICK LUGAR (59%); HOWARD L BERMAN (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009



141 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Downturn Pushes More Into Bankruptcy, Despite Tighter Rules

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
The ailing economy continues to pull more Americans into bankruptcy court, where the number of troubled consumers filing for protection soared in March to its highest level since October 2005, when a new law made it more arduous and expensive to file.
And as job losses continue to climb, they may well drag bankruptcy filings along with them. 
An average of 5,945 bankruptcy petitions were filed each day in March, up 9 percent from February and up 38 percent compared with a year earlier, according to Mike Bickford, president of Automated Access to Court Electronic Records, a bankruptcy data and management company. In all, 130,793 people filed for bankruptcy in March.
The weak economy and its repercussions -- rising unemployment, lower pay, fewer people with health insurance, and the mortgage and foreclosure crises -- are all playing a role in the big increase in bankruptcies. And some of the most common factors that tend to lead to bankruptcy filings -- divorce and disruptive health problems -- have not gone away.
But the biggest factor in the current spate of filings may be the tightening of credit.
''We have a lot of people out of work, but that alone is not driving the spike in bankruptcy filings,'' said Robert M. Lawless, a professor at the University of Illinois College of Law. ''Along with job loss is the tightening of consumer credit. Compared to 18 months ago, the American consumer does not have the same ability to borrow in an attempt to stave off the day of reckoning. With no income and no credit, it is not surprising that the middle class is looking to the bankruptcy courts for relief.''
Professor Lawless said he expected total bankruptcy filings to reach 1.45 million to 1.5 million by the end of the year, compared with nearly 1.1 million filings in 2008, an increase of 31 percent to 36 percent. It also means that filings are fast approaching the average number of annual filings of about 1.4 million before the new bankruptcy law took effect in October 2005.
''It shows you that a lot more people are hurting,'' Mr. Bickford said. ''Even with the more restrictive law in place, the filings are back up to the prelaw level.''
The law, the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act, made it more difficult for consumers to erase their debts through Chapter 7 bankruptcies. Those who earn more than their state's median income are now required to first pass a means test -- based on income, living expenses and other factors. If they are deemed able to repay some debts, they are then forced to pursue a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, which sets up a three- or five-year repayment plan and makes it more difficult to get a fresh start.
''In a nutshell, bankruptcies happen because financial distress happens,'' said Jack Williams, resident scholar at the American Bankruptcy Institute and a bankruptcy professor at the Georgia State University College of Law. ''It is hubris to think that we can manage such a complex system by inserting a means test here, a credit counseling requirement there.''
Keith and Leola Gladney of St. Charles, Mo., filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy last summer. Their problems began to unfold in September 2007, when Mrs. Gladney, who was pregnant, was put on bed rest and could no longer work as a marketing assistant. They lost her income, though she did receive short-term disability payments. In January 2008, Mr. Gladney, 38, lost his job as a manager of an auto parts store. Within months, the couple had fallen behind on the mortgage payments on their home, which they bought for $130,000 in 2004.
They lost the house around the time their son was born in March 2008, and the couple had to move into a hotel with their newborn. Though they eventually found an apartment to rent, the Gladneys decided to file for bankruptcy. Adding to their troubles, Mrs. Gladney, 37, found out last November that she did not have a job to return to.
''It is really stressful for me because I thought I would find another job,'' she said.
Mr. Gladney said he was hopeful that he was close to receiving a job offer on one of the 30 or so resumes he sends out daily. ''We are trying to keep our heads up and keep a positive attitude and hope things will get better,'' he said. ''We go to church every Sunday. We haven't changed our routine.''
If history is any guide, the number of bankruptcy filings will increase through this year, but will not jump as much as they did from February to March because that tends to be a popular time for filing, Professor Lawless said. But if legislation is passed that would allow bankruptcy judges to modify some primary mortgages, filings could rise significantly.
The House has approved a version of that so-called cramdown legislation, but the Senate did not have enough votes to overcome a filibuster by Republicans, who want the modifications to apply to a much smaller pool of loans. The Senate Democrats are working on a compromise, and say they hope they can bring the bill to the floor after Congress returns from recess on April 20.
The power to modify home mortgages would probably lead many more people to pursue bankruptcy to save their homes. If the legislation were to pass, Mr. Lawless said, 1.6 million would be a conservative estimate of the number of bankruptcy filings this year.
''We have to remember that prebankruptcy negotiations take place in the shadow of the bankruptcy law,'' he added. ''We would expect that banks would be more likely to come to the negotiation table.''
Regardless of what happens, the number of consumers filing for bankruptcy is expected to continue to climb even after the economy begins to recover.
''What is sobering about these numbers is that bankruptcy is generally a lagging economic indicator,'' Professor Williams said. ''So even as the economy starts to turn around down the road, we will still continue to see bankruptcy filings increase even past that turning point, and that trend will continue anywhere from three to five quarters.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Rising Number of Troubled Consumers: Bankruptcies are at their highest level since October 2005, when a new law made it more difficult and expensive for individuals and companies to file.(Sources: Mike Bickford, Automated Access to Court Electronic Records
Robert Lawless, Univ. of Illinois College of Law)(B1)
STATES WITH THE HIGHEST BANKRUPTCY RATES (Sources: Mike Bickford, Automated Access to Court Electronic Records
 Robert Lawless, Univ. of Illinois College of Law)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (96%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (78%); PETITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); DISMISSALS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



142 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: New Deal Revisionism: Theories Collide

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
For more than half a century, America's political leaders -- Republican and Democrat -- have sought to wrap themselves in the legacy of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the man credited with replacing fear with hope and ending the Great Depression. But in recent years some writers and economists have been telling a version of this story that is quite different from the one generally taught in school or seen on the History Channel.
In this interpretation Roosevelt is a well-meaning but misguided dupe who not only prolonged the Depression but also exacerbated it. For many people, it's like hearing that Little Red Riding Hood's grandmother and not the wolf is the rapacious killer.
Since the financial crash this fall, the revisionist look at the Great Depression has attracted new attention; it even recently made its way onto Stephen Colbert's television show. But more than that, it has become an intellectual banner for Republican opponents of the Obama administration's ambitious bailout and stimulus proposals. 
Amity Shlaes, a syndicated columnist who works at the Council on Foreign Relations, helped ignite this latest revisionist spurt with her 2007 book, ''The Forgotten Man: A New History of the Great Depression.''
''The deepest problem was the intervention, the lack of faith in the marketplace,'' she wrote, lumping Herbert Hoover and Roosevelt together as overzealous government meddlers.
The current financial crisis, as well as continuing praise from conservatives, helped propel the book back onto the Times best-seller list in November. Jonathan Alter, an editor at Newsweek and the author of ''The Defining Moment: FDR's Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope'' -- which has also benefited from the renewed fascination with the 1930s -- calls Ms. Shlaes's book a ''taste badge,'' flaunted by Republicans looking for a way to oppose the administration.
This week competing theories about the Depression and the New Deal were once again on display at a conference at the Council on Foreign Relations' New York headquarters, co-hosted by the Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University, and partly organized by Ms. Shlaes.
She and other critics of the New Deal credit Roosevelt with some important innovations, like restoring confidence in banks and establishing social insurance. Nonetheless, they argue that most of his mucking about in the economy crowded out private investment and antagonized the business world, and thus delayed recovery.
Unemployment remained high throughout the decade until World War II, Ms. Shlaes told conference attendees, because the uncertainty created by Roosevelt's continual tinkering paralyzed private investors.
When the federal government keeps changing the rules, it's like having Darth Vader in control, John H. Cochrane, a professor of finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, said during a panel. ''I have changed the deal,'' he intoned like Vader, the ''Star Wars'' villain. ''Pray I don't change it any further.''
Many of the economists who were invited to speak were similarly skeptical of the New Deal, even if they disagreed on the Depression's causes. ''No episode in American history has been so misinterpreted as the Great Depression,'' declared Richard K. Vedder, an economist at Ohio University. By artificially keeping prices and wages high, he argued, both Hoover and Roosevelt prevented the economy from adjusting, which is why unemployment remained in double digits until the United States entered the war.
Anna Schwartz, who collaborated with Milton Friedman on a classic study of the Depression, and the Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas Jr. argued that the idea of stimulating the economy with federal spending is a fairy tale. Government spending just crowds out private investment, they asserted; the money supply is the only thing that matters.
To Roosevelt's defenders, the speaker list seemed stacked with attackers.
''I'm wound up here,'' said Jeff Madrick, as he tried to cram in a wide-ranging defense of the New Deal during his brief remarks. Mr. Madrick, who directs policy research at the Schwartz Center for Economic Policy Analysis at the New School, pointed out that considering the deep pit the economy had fallen into during the Depression (when production fell by nearly one-third), the government's deficit spending (just 5 percent of the gross domestic product) was actually quite modest. Even so, he said, it managed to reduce the official unemployment rate from a high of 25 percent in 1933 to just under 10 percent by 1936.
Nick Taylor, the author of ''American-Made,'' a history of the Works Progress Administration, said Roosevelt's flurry of activity restored confidence. Not only did his administration rapidly create jobs for legions of jobless Americans, Mr. Taylor said, it also simultaneously built bridges, roads and dams, and brought light, electrical power and water to large swaths of the country. That 20th-century infrastructure laid the groundwork for the country's phenomenal growth in the 1950s and '60s.
Yes, unemployment bumped up in 1937, but it was caused by Roosevelt's ill-advised attempt to balance the budget, he said. When Roosevelt reversed that policy, unemployment began to inch down again.
By the day's end, Robert E. Rubin, who was secretary of the Treasury during the Clinton administration, mentioned that he was struck by ''how vivid the discussion over the causes of the Depression is 80 years after it occurred,'' though he also noted that ''a lot of it is seen through ideological and political eyes -- on both sides.''
At the final panel, a questioner asked at what point on the 1930s timeline is the United States right now. Economically we're at 1930, Mr. Alter said, referring to the very start of the downturn, but politically we're at 1933. Mr. Obama, he explained, ''is following in F.D.R.'s footsteps,'' moving quickly with significant government action to restore confidence and get the economy moving.
To Ms. Shlaes, the best analogy is 1937 -- ''the depression within the Depression'' -- when the unemployment rate shot back up to the middle and high teens after falling. ''The economy wanted to recover,'' she said, but the government's interventions ended up paralyzing the business world.
Yet despite the abundance of analogies and lessons thrown out, some were cautious about drawing too close a link between then and now. The Depression was about 10 times as severe as what the nation is currently experiencing, with only 25 percent of the population working full time, they pointed out. In addition, there was no Social Security or unemployment insurance, and no federal deposit insurance.
To ask at what point on the 1930s timeline the United States is right now, Harold L. Cole, an economics professor at the University of Pennsylvania and a consultant to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said with some exasperation, ''really shows a misunderstanding of the severity of what went on there and the depths of the crisis.''
Mr. Vedder playfully offered another analogy: the recession of 1920. Why was that slump, over and done with by 1922, so much shorter than the following decade's? Well, for starters, he said, President Woodrow Wilson suffered an incapacitating stroke at the end of 1919, while his successor, Warren G. Harding, universally considered one of the worst presidents in American history, preferred drinking, playing poker and golf, and womanizing, to governing. ''So nothing happened,'' Mr. Vedder said.
Of course Mr. Vedder does not wish ill health -- or obliviousness -- on any chief executive. Still, in his view, when you're talking about government intervention in the economy, doing nothing is about the best you can hope for from any president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A March 1933 cartoon from The New York Times expressed confidence in the new president, Franklin Delano Roosevelt.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD MARCUS/FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY AND MUSEUM) (C1)
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's role in ending the Great Depression has come under new scrutiny in recent years.
 Men lining up for free dinner in New York in the early days of the Great Depression.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); WRITERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BAILOUTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); BESTSELLERS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); STEPHEN COLBERT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



143 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Los Cadillacs Roar Back, And Pick Up Other Fans

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
It's almost as if they hadn't been away. Ten years after the release of their last recording of new material, Los Fabulosos Cadillacs, perhaps the most innovative Spanish-language rock group of the 1990s, are back: on the road, playing in stadiums; on MTV again; and with a new CD.
In fact, the only real surprise about the return of the Cadillacs, who are scheduled to play on Sunday at the Hammerstein Ballroom, may be that they dropped out of sight in the first place. This Argentine band was at the peak of its popularity in Latin America and building a following in the United States when it simply stopped recording and then touring. There were no visible signs of internal squabbling, no announcement of a breakup or even of a timeout, just a sudden silence.
''It had been 17 years together, nonstop, but we had no big quarrel or rupture, like in Pink Floyd,'' said Flavio Cianciarulo, the band's bassist and one of its two main songwriters. ''We were just exhausted.'' 
Sergio Rotman, the saxophonist, added: ''This was an obvious and necessary crisis, but it wasn't set off by anything particular, like one guy falling in love with another guy's wife. We had families and children, and we just needed to stop and see where we were going.''
In its heyday, Los Fabulosos Cadillacs was a pioneering band, and not just because its music mixed ska, punk, reggae, salsa and funk in unpredictable ways. Its quick embrace of MTV Latino as soon as that channel went on the air in 1993 led to a string of powerful videos charged with political imagery and the recording of MTV Latino's first ''Unplugged,'' helping make it one of the first rock en Espanol bands to become popular throughout Latin America rather than just in its native country.
But the six core Cadillacs are returning to a musical landscape that changed enormously while the band was dormant. In addition to the different economics and technology of the music business, the Latin music market is now dominated by genres that barely existed in 1999 or were of minimal importance, like reggaeton and cumbia.
With another group, that might raise questions about the ability to remain relevant. But the Cadillacs' mix-and-match approach seems to have saved it from that fate: since going back on the road last fall, the band has filled soccer stadiums from Buenos Aires to Mexico City, drawing crowds as large as 60,000.
''Musically speaking, they were so much ahead of their time,'' said Jose Tillan, a vice president for music at MTV Latino. ''What is reggaeton but a derivative of a Caribbean beat that they were already playing? So I'm assuming that because of those rhythmic elements they might be more appealing to all these young kids listening to these new kinds of music.''
During their long hiatus, most of the band members continued to play music, sometimes with one another and often in small clubs around Buenos Aires. Mr. Cianciarulo also wrote a pair of books and had a radio show.
The lead singer, Gabriel Fernandez Capello, the band's other main composer, evolved into something of a crooner of tropical music and had probably the most commercially successful solo career. Mr. Rotman moved to Puerto Rico, where he delved deeper into Caribbean styles like salsa and meringue.
But no sooner had the band members made the decision to reunite than a tragedy struck. In March of last year, the percussionist Gerardo Rotblat, who had not been ill, died suddenly of pulmonary edema at 38. In the initial shock, his colleagues wrestled with what to do next, wondering if Mr. Rotblat's death were an augury.
''Basically, we had two choices,'' Mr. Cianciarulo said. ''We were devastated, and, yes, we thought of abandoning everything. But we chose the other path and decided, 'Let's do it, not just for him but for us too. Let's take this tragedy as a stimulus and do everything at double speed and effort, because he deserves that.' ''
The first of the recordings from the sessions that followed was released in the United States last month and is called ''La Luz del Ritmo'' or ''The Light of the Rhythm'' (Nacional Records). That title is meant as a homage to Mr. Rotblat; a second CD from the same sessions, to be called ''The Rhythm of the Light,'' is likely to be released later this year.
To help get them back in their groove, the band members turned to Robert Carranza, the Grammy-winning American engineer and producer.
''Since we're doing a lot of new things, it's good to bring a new person into the Cadillacs circle'' and ''change our classic habits a little,'' Mario Siperman, the band's keyboard player, explained in a ''making of'' video filmed as the album was being recorded.
Mr. Carranza, who has worked with the Mars Volta, the Beastie Boys, Jack Johnson, Bjork and Ozomatli, among others, said he made an effort to move the Cadillacs ''out of their comfort zone.'' He insisted that they play entire songs together live in the same room ''rather than doing things bit by bit, as they like to do,'' and encouraged the members to play instruments other than those they usually play ''so that everyone can get a piece of the pie, and every idea gets tried.''
But in other ways, ''La Luz del Ritmo'' represents a return to the band's roots. The CD was recorded largely at Panda Studios in Buenos Aires, where Los Fabulosos Cadillacs had done much of the work that made their name back in the mid-1980s, and also heralds a shift away from the relatively guitar-heavy sound that the band embraced in the late '90s, when it performed frequently in the United States
The band's guitar player from that era, Ariel Minimal, does not play on ''La Luz del Ritmo'' or on the current tour; the new record, as in the band's early years, emphasizes horns and percussion, with guitar fills set back in the mix and hardly a guitar solo to be found.
''That period was over, and we had to move on,'' Mr. Cianciarulo said when asked about the contrast between the new recording and the band's sound in the late '90s.
Of the 13 songs on ''La Luz del Ritmo,'' five are new, including the title song, which is described in the liner notes as a ''tropidelik cha cha cha''; two are covers showing the band's Anglophile leanings; and six are radically revised versions of previously recorded songs. ''Malbicho,'' an MTV favorite, is one of those, but others are more obscure tracks from the band's early period that are now virtually unrecognizable.
Chief among these is ''Padre Nuestro,'' the record's first single and video, which has been redone in what the band describes as a ''kumbia hot-rod version.'' With that, a curious thing has happened: Los Fabulosos Cadillacs, whose following in English-speaking North America has traditionally been strongest among rock and world music fans, finally have a mainstream Latin hit in the United States.
Band members said they were pleased. But they added that it changed nothing about the way they approach their music.
''We are originators of sounds, not adapters of what is already successful,'' Mr. Rotman, the saxophone player, said.
Mr. Fernandez Capello put it this way: ''The main thing is that we're more mature and don't feel we have to prove anything to anybody. If we don't to want to do something, we don't do it. We have no problem in saying no.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Los Fabulosos Cadillacs, above, onstage in Buenos Aires in July 2008 and, left, in a January 2009 photograph.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NACIONAL RECORDS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY VITO RIVELLI) (C1)
 Members of Los Fabulosos Cadillacs at work on the band's latest CD in a studio in Buenos Aires in July 2008. From left, Gabriel Fernandez Capello, Sergio Rotman and Flavio Cianciarulo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NACIONAL RECORDS)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (87%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); SONG WRITING (71%); FAMILY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (77%) ARGENTINA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



144 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Your Table Is Ready. Please.

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
During a decade of easy credit and loose spending, American businesses built too many cars, houses, stores and factories. It turns out the country built too many restaurants, too.
Now consumers are cutting back, and dining out is among the casualties. Finer restaurant chains have been hit hard, and so have the casual sit-down places that flooded suburban shopping centers and tourist districts across the country, aimed straight at middle American tastes.
A few chains have boarded up already. Many others are going into survival mode, trying to renegotiate their loans, cutting staff, offering bargains to customers and closing less profitable restaurants. Analysts predict thousands more restaurants could close in the next year or two.
The pain is evident even amid the neon glitz of Times Square, which draws big crowds of tourists used to eating at places like Red Lobster and Applebee's. 
Zane Tankel opened an Applebee's franchise there eight years ago. At the time, he said his nearest real competition, an Olive Garden, was about six blocks away.
Now, Mr. Tankel could sit in his restaurant and throw rocks through the windows of a half-dozen competitors, including ESPN Zone, Dave & Buster's, Chevys and Dallas BBQ.
''We'll see some weeding out,'' he said one recent lunch hour, sitting in a near-empty Applebee's dining room overlooking 42nd Street. Noting a restaurant above him and another across the street, he said, ''One of the three of us is not going to be here.''
Mr. Tankel's fears are shared by many analysts and consultants, who say that a decades-long expansion produced too many restaurants even for a good economy, let alone the worst malaise since the Great Depression.
Since 1990, the number of restaurants and bars has grown to 537,000 from 361,000, a 49 percent increase, according to the National Restaurant Association. Population in the United States grew 23 percent in that period.
Amid the seeming prosperity of a credit-fueled era, people got in the habit of eating more and more of their meals out. The association's statistics show that 48 cents of every food dollar is now spent at restaurants, compared with 40.5 cents per dollar in 1985.
In a recent note to investors, John Glass, an analyst for Morgan Stanley, said the casual dining industry -- midrange restaurants like Applebee's -- needed to shutter about 1,200 of its roughly 18,000 locations to regain financial health.
''The chain casual dining industry has been overbuilt since 2005,'' Mr. Glass wrote, noting that was the last year the industry posted positive numbers for customer traffic. ''It may take two or more years to reach equilibrium.''
Others said the pruning of restaurants would extend beyond casual dining to all types of restaurants. Bob Goldin, executive vice president at Technomic, a Chicago consultancy for the restaurant industry, predicted that more than 20,000 restaurants would close over the next three years.
''I think 20,000 is a minimum,'' he said. ''We probably need more than that. There are a lot of marginal players out there.''
Mr. Goldin said the rapid expansion was driven by chains that added 300 or more new stores a year, following a ''you build it and they shall come philosophy.''
''There isn't a sector in the retail market that isn't overbuilt,'' he said.
The result is that after 16 years of sales growth, inflation-adjusted sales declined 1.2 percent last year, an already tough year for restaurateurs as ingredient costs hit record highs. Sales are expected to decrease another 1 percent in 2009, according to the National Restaurant Association.
''There's not a day that goes by that I don't get a heads-up about somebody closing their doors,'' said Amy Greene, who tracks the industry for Avondale Partners in Nashville.
So far, many of the companies going out of business are small enterprises with one to three locations; they are struggling because of slower sales and limited access to credit, she said. The NPD Group, a market research firm, reported in January that unit growth of small chains and independents declined by 1 percent in 2008.
But larger chains have struggled too, particularly those with a more expensive menu than competitors, or onerous levels of debt. Outback Steakhouse is one example.
Known for its fried appetizer the Bloomin' Onion and its ostensibly Australian decor, Outback was taken private in 2007 at the peak of the private equity buying binge, even as the casual dining sector was struggling with sluggish sales. Outback's owner, OSI Restaurant Partners, now finds itself saddled with debt and declining customer counts.
''Because of all the debt they took on, there's limited cash available to fix the stores,'' said Howard W. Penney, an analyst at Research Edge, in New Haven. ''The structure for the company is disastrous right now.''
In early March, the rating agency Moody's included OSI Restaurant Partners on its list of ''bottom-rung'' companies that are most likely to default on debt payments. A company spokesman, Michael Fox, said the company had recently significantly improved its financial position by retiring $300 million of debt at a discounted cost of $85 million.
The company also is trying to lure customers with values and created a new menu with 15 meals for $15.99 each.
Other restaurant chains on that ignoble bottom-rung list included Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Sbarro and Arby's.
Of course, there are some exceptions to the industry's malaise, even in the casual dining sector. Darden Restaurants, which owns Olive Garden and Red Lobster, recently announced a better-than-expected outlook for the coming year. In the most recent quarter, same-store sales dropped 3 percent, compared with a 6 percent decline for the rest of the casual dining industry.
''You are not in an environment where a rising tide will raise all boats,'' said Clarence Otis, Darden's chief executive, noting that strong brands and mature and efficient operations were crucial. ''We have a lot of strengths. We are gaining share.''
In addition, fast-food restaurants with a value menu like McDonald's, Taco Bell and Subway have thrived by offering full meals for less than $5.
''The guys that are succeeding are the ones that have ingrained in the customer that it is less expensive to eat there than to buy groceries and prepare it at home,'' Ms. Greene said.
Mr. Tankel, whose company owns 30 Applebee's franchises in and around New York, has had a first-row seat to the restaurant industry's woes. In 2007, Applebee's was acquired by Dine Equity, the owner of IHOP, and some analysts have worried about its ability to pay off its debt.
He is also on the board of Morton's Restaurant Group, which has struggled as expense accounts have dried up, and Perkins & Marie Callender's Inc., which is on Moody's ''bottom rung'' chart.
Still, Mr. Tankel, an adventurer who has climbed Mount Everest and visited both poles, said his 30 stores were beating the odds by being up 2 percent so far this year, which he attributes to a relentless focus on service. He plans to continue expanding during the downturn.
''Dine Equity's problems are not our problem,'' he said. ''They gave us a brand, and the brand has weight, the brand has firepower.''
Even so, several passers-by in Times Square said Friday that they had cut back on dining out. Scott Wood, 37, said economic uncertainty and a 20 percent pay cut had forced him and wife to cut their restaurant visits in half.
''We go to the same places, but just not as much,'' said Mr. Wood, who was visiting from Utah.
Renita Dickens, a 42-year-old from Connecticut, said she too had cut back on restaurant visits, curbing a once-a-week habit to once a month, because of worries about the future. But she made an exception to her informal rule on Friday, eating lunch at Red Lobster with a friend.
''We're going to treat ourselves,'' she said. ''But we'll pay for it later.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A slow day at the Applebee's in Times Square, right. The proliferation of casual sit-down competitors, like the nearby Dallas BBQ, below, has taken away some customers, and the recession is dissuading others.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 Zane Tankel, owner of the Applebee's in Times Square, says his restaurant or a competitor will probably close soon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B2) CHARTS: Oversaturated Restaurant Industry: During the boom, Americans got used to eating out, which led chains to build many new restaurants. Experts say some parts of the market were already saturated by 2005, and now the poor economy is putting many restaurants out of business.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (68%); DRINKING PLACES (62%); STATISTICS (62%)

COMPANY: APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); DAVE & BUSTER'S ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS713120 AMUSEMENT ARCADES (55%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



145 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Getting Fuel Economy Right

 BODY:
The Obama administration has before it a rare opportunity to establish an aggressive -- and unified -- national standard for automobile fuel economy that could save consumers money at the pump, reduce oil dependency and greenhouse gases and help make America's car companies (or what's left of them after the present restructuring) more competitive. 
Doing so will require overcoming bureaucratic obstacles and harmonizing state and federal mandates. And that will mean intervention by the White House, specifically Carol Browner, the president's coordinator on energy and environmental matters, whose job description includes unraveling just this kind of knot.
At first glance, the situation looks impossibly tangled, with three different governmental entities involved. One is the Department of Transportation, which sets fuel-economy standards. In 2007, Congress required all new cars and light trucks to meet a fleetwide average of at least 35 miles per gallon by 2020 -- a 40 percent increase over today's standard -- and ordered the department to devise a timetable.
California is also a player as a result of a 2002 state law mandating big reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions from vehicles. The mandate established no new fuel-economy standards, since that is a federal responsibility. But because the only obvious way to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions from vehicles is to make them more efficient, the mandate would inevitably require a big jump in fuel economy.
The Environmental Protection Agency now finds itself in the fuel-economy business as well. Responding to a 2007 Supreme Court decision, the agency has declared its intention to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. In time, this will almost certainly lead the agency to establish its own emissions standards, which, like California's, will inevitably require more fuel efficient vehicles.
Officials from California and the Obama administration are already talking about a unified-tailpipe-emissions standard (without, however, undercutting California's historic right to set its own clean-air laws). The next step would be to figure out what this would mean in terms of fuel economy. Officials at the Transportation Department would have to be brought into the discussion, since it is they who will set the final number.
That number could be much higher than Congress thought possible; an analysis by the Natural Resources Defense Council has shown that the California standard, adopted nationally, would put the country on a trajectory to far surpass the 35 m.p.g. target in 2020. That, in turn, would put America's cars and trucks on the road to a significantly cleaner and less oil dependent future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S CAR-MART INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%)

TICKER: CRMT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (58%); SIC5521 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (USED ONLY) (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); CAROL BROWNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



146 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: 660,000 More Jobs Lost; Total Surpasses 5 Million

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN and JACK HEALY

 BODY:
With 663,000 more jobs disappearing from the American economy last month, swelling the total number of jobs surrendered to the recession beyond five million, the government's response to the downturn is being put to a strenuous test.
When drafting plans in January to spend roughly $800 billion to stimulate the deteriorating economy, the Obama administration operated on the assumption that the unemployment rate would reach 8.9 percent by the end of the year -- without the extra federal spending. Three months into the year, the unemployment rate has already soared to 8.5 percent, from 7.6 percent, the highest level in more than a quarter-century.
Between January and March, more than two million jobs were lost, according to the Labor Department's employment report, released Friday.
The severity and breadth of the job losses in March -- which afflicted nearly every industry outside of health care -- prompted economists to conclude that an agonizing plunge in employment prospects was still unfolding. 
''It's really just about as bad as can be imagined,'' said Dean Baker, a director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington. ''There's just no way we're anywhere near a bottom. We'll be really lucky if we stop losing jobs by the end of the year.''
The pace of retrenchment has prompted talk that another wave of government stimulus spending may be needed to accompany the $787 billion already in the pipeline.
''We're clearly looking at a worse downturn than they had been anticipating when they planned the stimulus,'' said Mr. Baker, whose organization tends toward liberal policy prescriptions. ''We're going to need some more.''
But others -- not least, decision-makers inside the Obama administration -- deemed such talk premature. The dreadful jobs report landed among tentative signs of improvement in a few areas of the economy, with recent snippets of data lifting stock markets and sowing cautious hopes that the beginnings of a recovery might be taking shape.
After a miserable holiday season, retail sales appear to have stabilized. Auto sales, while extremely weak, improved slightly in February. Houses have been selling in markedly greater numbers in important markets like California and Florida, albeit at substantially reduced prices. Consumer spending appears to have leveled off after plummeting over the last three months of 2008.
''The downturn is still very intense, but it's no longer intensifying,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com.
The surge of government spending is just beginning to work its way through federal and state bureaucracies and is expected to support jobs in construction and related industries later this year.
''We're attacking this in a very aggressive way,'' the labor secretary, Hilda L. Solis, said Friday in an interview, arguing that it was too early to consider another round of stimulus spending. ''We will revisit that once we expend all the money that we have accrued.''
For now, the same factors that have assailed the economy for more than a year remain in force, with tattered banks reluctant to lend, and even healthy households and businesses averse to borrowing and investing in the face of grave uncertainty.
The very perception that millions more will lose jobs and housing prices will fall have turned such outlooks into reality: As businesses scramble to cut costs and confront gloomy sales prospects, many are shrinking their work forces, removing more paychecks from the economy.
''There's a lot of survival job-cutting going on throughout American business,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Group in Pittsburgh. ''There won't be any job growth at all this year. The economy is far, far from being out of the woods.''
Still, Mr. Hoffman is inclined to wait a few months and hope for improvement before calling for a new wave of stimulus spending.
''You don't just double the dose if the patient doesn't immediately improve,'' he said.
The Treasury recently outlined plans for an expanded bank rescue aimed at lowering borrowing costs for businesses and households. The Federal Reserve has begun buying $300 billion worth of long-term Treasury bonds in an effort to drive down the interest rates on mortgages, auto loans and other forms of finance.
The panic that has ruled financial markets since last fall has abated considerably in recent weeks. The average interest rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage dropped to a record low of 4.61 percent last week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, from more than 6 percent a year ago. Banks are charging each other less to borrow money. Investors are tiptoeing back into the market for corporate bonds.
''Credit markets have improved across the board,'' said Michael Darda, chief economist at the research and trading firm MKM Partners. ''We're not going to see it in the economy for a while, and we're not going to see it in the labor market for an even longer time, but in the financial market, indicators are starting to move in the right direction.''
Manufacturing remains exceedingly weak around the world, a response to plummeting demand for goods. Still, an index tracked by JPMorgan Chase that gauges global production has climbed for three consecutive months.
In London, leaders of the world's major economies left a summit meeting this week with promises to try to bolster global trade.
But economic recovery will require incomes to improve, giving Americans the spending power to consume, thus creating jobs that generate more wages -- an upward spiral. For now, that dynamic is working in reverse: during the first three months of the year, wages and salaries shrank at a 4 percent annual rate, which is on pace to eliminate some $265 billion from the economy, according David A. Rosenberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch.
''This prevalent view that the recession is about to bottom out has somehow bypassed the most important part of the economy, which is jobs and income,'' Mr. Rosenberg wrote in a note to clients.
Friday's report catalogued the myriad ways in which American working people remained under assault. The number of unemployed people rose to 13.2 million in March. Those unemployed for longer than six months reached 3.2 million.
As the unemployment rate edged up to 8.5 percent, from 8.1 percent the previous month, the manufacturing sector again led the way down, shedding 161,000 jobs in March. Employment in construction declined by 126,000, and has fallen by 1.3 million since it peaked in January 2007. Professional and business services employment fell by 133,000.
In New Jersey, Henry Perez, 34, and his family are living in the basement of his sister's house in Rochelle Park and struggling to find work. They are refugees of sorts from the real estate collapse in Las Vegas, where Mr. Perez once lived, investing heavily in housing.
He has more recently worked in online commerce and as a marketer at an office furniture company. But after being laid off at the end of last year, he has found nothing, even as he has sharply dropped his expectations, applying for jobs at restaurant chains.
''We're just sitting here all day long looking for jobs on the computer, frustrated and scared as hell,'' Mr. Perez said. ''I'm looking for anything.''
The report reinforced the reality that the pains of the downturn were hardly confined to the jobless. Those working part time because they cannot find full-time work, or because their hours have been cut, climbed by 423,000 in March, reaching 9 million.
In the Atlanta suburbs, Meg Fisher, 46, has been looking for work since she lost her job as a legal secretary in February. Her husband's hours at his pharmacy job were scaled back. Their previous annual income of about $79,000 has been sliced to $20,000.
Ms. Fisher is applying for food stamps, while seeking freelance work as a tailor.
''It's not going to replace my salary,'' she said. ''It's not even going to come close, but it's better than sitting around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The line to get into a Brooklyn job fair on Tuesday. Since the beginning of the year, two million people across the country have lost their jobs, pushing the unemployment rate to 8.5 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES)(A10) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in March: Unemployment rate
DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
Employment
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); RETAIL SALES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); HILDA L SOLIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



147 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2112 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
BLACKWATER LOSES CONTRACT,
But Employees to Return to Iraq
Blackwater Worldwide lost its billion-dollar contract to protect American diplomats in Baghdad, but many if not most of its private security guards who worked for the company will be back on the job in Iraq and wearing the uniforms for the firm that won the State Department's contract. The contract was terminated after the company was accused of excessive force in several instances, particularly an apparently unprovoked shooting spree in 2007. PAGE A4
FOOTAGE OF FLOGGING STIRS OUTRAGE
Video of a 17-year-old woman in Pakistan being beaten with a leather strap while pleading for a reprieve has been broadcast repeatedly by private television news networks in the country. It has caused outrage there and set off bitter condemnation by rights advocates and politicians. PAGE A4 
A DISPLAY OF PANACHE IN FRANCE
Michelle Obama and Carla Sarkozy, the two most famous first ladies in the world, met in Strasbourg, France, at the Palais Rohan, and their soundtrack was the clacking of paparazzi cameras. PAGE A4
The Saturday Profile Congo Leader Gets Mixed Reviews
Joseph Kabila, the president of Congo, comes across as both thoughtful and unpretentious one moment. In another, he seems like the archetypal African strongman who brutally silences dissenters. Most Congo analysts give him a grade of B or C. In his eight years in office, he has not excelled, but he has not failed either. PAGE A5
Thousands Protest in Ukraine A5
CZECH'S BIG MOMENT OVERSHADOWED
President Obama's visit to the Czech Republic was supposed to be a moment of triumph for the country. Instead, his meeting has been overshadowed by the collapse of the Czech government last week, during the country's term as president of the European Union. The events have cast doubt on Prague's ability to lead the world's biggest trading bloc during difficult economic times. PAGE A6
OBAMA CALLS FOR EUROPEAN HELP
President Obama told a cheering crowd of young people in France that the fight against Islamic extremists was one that Europe could not afford to leave to the United States alone. PAGE A7
KOREA CONTINUES WITH ROCKET TEST
North Korea pushed forward with final preparations to launch a multistage rocket, in an effort to demonstrate its latest missile technology to its adversaries and perhaps to potential buyers in the Middle East. It warned aircraft to stay clear of its easterly trajectory over northern Japan, toward the Pacific. PAGE A7
CITING STRONGER MEXICAN TIES
At the end of two days of meetings with Mexican officials, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said that cooperation between the United States and Mexico was stronger and ''fundamentally different than that which existed in the past.'' PAGE A7
National
REPUBLICANS IN VIRGINIA
Split Sharply Over Leader
Jeffrey M. Frederick promised fresh leadership and the revitalization of Virginia's Republican Party when he was elected chairman last year. Instead, Republican election losses in November and prominent missteps have plunged the party into months of ferocious infighting. PAGE A8
ILLINOIS TO OVERHAUL PENSION BOARDS
Gov. Patrick J. Quinn of Illinois signed legislation providing for a major overhaul in the administration of the state's investment and pension boards. The legislation follows the indictment of the board's former chief executive, who prosecutors said brazenly manipulated the boards for personal gain. PAGE A8
STUMPING FOR PEANUTS
Sales of peanuts fell as much as 25 percent amid a salmonella scare that was tied to peanut paste. In response, Georgia politicians have begun some full-throated cheerleading for the crop, which the state produces more of than any other. They have celebrated Peanut Butter and Jelly Day, Georgia Peanut Farmer Appreciation Day and National Peanut Month in the last month alone. PAGE A8
ADVISER MADE MILLIONS IN FEES
The White House released hundreds of pages of financial disclosure forms, which are required of all West Wing officials. One of the glaring disclosures: Lawrence H. Summers, the top economic adviser to President Obama, earned more than $5 million last year from a hedge fund and collected $2.7 million in speaking fees from Wall Street companies that received government bailout money. PAGE A10
LAWMAKER COMES UNDER SCRUTINY
Law enforcement officials who raided the lobbyist Paul Magliocchetti's PMA Group appear to be examining the firm's relationship with Representative Peter J. Visclosky, a low-profile lawmaker with big influence over federal spending. PAGE A11
New York
THE LAST PULLMAN PORTERS
Are Sought for a Tribute
For more than a century, Pullman porters were a part of American train travel, until competition from planes and automobiles led to the decline of sleeper cars. Now the last generation of porters -- who played a critical role in African-American history -- is rapidly dying off. And Amtrak is trying to locate the last few for National Train Day. PAGE A12
Obituaries
WILLIAM B. SCHWARTZ, 86
A leading health economist, his studies of the effects of market forces on medicine led him to predict that unbridled costs could lead to a rationing of care. PAGE A15
Business
IN INDIA, THE MOTHER-SON BOND EXTENDS TO THE BOARDROOM
Relationships are changing rapidly in modern, urbanized India. One relationship has not, however: the bond between Indian mothers and their sons. Some of India's most successful businessmen and politicians receive and heed their mothers' advice daily. Matriarchs with little formal business experience sit on the boards of industrial giants. Recently, India's highest court told two tycoon siblings to go to their mother to settle a business dispute. PAGE B1
BONUS ANGER REDUX
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee more than half of the nation's mortgages, plan to pay their employees ''retention bonuses'' totaling $210 million, despite calls from lawmakers to cancel the payments. PAGE B1
TOO MANY EMPTY TABLES
During a decade of easy credit and loose spending, American businesses built too many cars, houses, stores and factories. It turns out the country built too many restaurants, too. A few chains have boarded up already. Many others are going into survival mode. Above, Applebee's chief executive Zane Tankel at an Applebee's restaurant during breakfast hours. PAGE B1
Your Money B1
Madoff Brother Gets Monthly Money B2
Off the Charts
Banks More Indebted Than Public
The amount owed by consumers, in relation to the entire American economy, has started to fall. But the banks that made the loans have proved to be much more willing to borrow than their customers. And that debt has not begun to recede. PAGE B3
Cuts at Porsche's Finnish Partner B3
A CALL FOR END TO 'PUBLIC FLOGGING'
Philip Hampton, the chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland, whose record loss and near collapse made it a symbol of the financial crisis in Britain, called for an end to ''public flogging'' for past mistakes. PAGE B3
Eli Lilly Wins Appeal in Patent Case B4
Service Sector Contracted in March B8
Small Gain Continues Wall St. Rally B8
Wealthy Matters
When the Affluent Cut Back
Many of the million-dollar homes in Connecticut are owned by Wall Street's top earners. With the economy sputtering and earnings down, many of these homeowners are cutting back. And when they do, the landscapers, gardeners, pool guys and all manner of tradesmen who maintain their homes feel the brunt of it. PAGE B9
Arts
WITH A NEW FINANCIAL CRISIS,
Critics Recast the New Deal
Franklin Delano Roosevelt's response to the Great Depression is under fresh scrutiny from conservative critics, who argue that most of his mucking about in the economy crowded out private investment and antagonized the business community, thus delaying recovery. It's an argument given new urgency by the current financial crisis, and the Obama administration's response to it. PAGE C1
NONPROFIT THEATERS STRUGGLE
New York's nonprofit theaters are trying to weather one of the most difficult economic periods in their history, and with fund-raising way down, many are instituting salary freezes and considering tightening their belts even further. PAGE C1
DISPUTE OVER PARSONS' ART FACULTY
Nearly one-third of the fine arts faculty at Parsons the New School for Design has been told it will not be teaching in the department in the fall, and faculty members there and at other area universities are protesting the action. It has set off more controversy at the New School, where the embattled president, Bob Kerrey, received an overwhelming no-confidence vote from the school's full-time faculty in December. PAGE C1
Video Game Review Just Like the Wii, but Smaller
Seth Schiesel writes that the DSi, the new version of Nintendo's hand-held DS, succeeds because it reimagines what fun can mean, like the company's fabulously popular Wii console. And it does so in an immediately accessible way. PAGE C1
Television Review An Even Look Inside Guantanamo
Neil Genzlinger writes that the ''Inside Guantanamo'' installment of the ''Explorer'' series on the National Geographic Channel is remarkably dispassionate for a subject so charged with emotion, and the main interest here is in getting viewers to think, not getting them riled. PAGE C3
SPARRING OVER LENO
When WHDH, an NBC affiliate in Boston, announced that I was going to air a local news program at 10 p.m. each weeknight this fall, instead of the network's new Jay Leno show set to air during the same time, NBC responded by threatening to expel WHDH from its affiliate lineup and replacing it with another unaffiliated station in the town. PAGE C3
Dance Review Tying the Audience to the Performer
In the top half of a split bill, Melanie Maar embarked on a spare meditation full of dryly repetitive and playful passages, Claudia La Rocco writes. In the bottom half, a masked Keith Hennessy, an influential San Francisco performance artist, sat naked onstage, covered in sparkles and with his groin caked in lard, and proceeded to sew himself to three audience members via their clothing and a strand of red thread, which he threaded through his skin. PAGE C5
Sports
A BASHFUL GIANT BECOMES
UConn's Beast on the Block
When Hasheem Thabeet began playing organized basketball, the smiling, unfailingly polite seven-footer was so bashful that he had to be reminded to dunk and so uncoordinated that he was not allowed to participate in some of the team's drills. A few years later, he is the co-Big East player of the year and a major reason why Connecticut has made it to the Final Four. PAGE B9
GIANTS LET GO OF BURRESS
The Giants released Plaxico Burress after four seasons without waiting for a resolution of his criminal case to decide his football fate. The Giants did not publicly elaborate on the factors behind their decision, but they have indicated a desire to see a change in Burress's attitude after legal issues stemming from a November incident in which he accidentally shot himself in the leg with an unlicensed gun he had stuffed in his pants. PAGE B9
METS SIGN SHEFFIELD
The Mets signed the veteran slugger Gary Sheffield to a one-year deal and hope that his formidable power can balance his diminished defensive skills and outspoken and sometimes combative personality. PAGE B9
Judge Skeptical of Vick's Return B12
This Weekend
MAGAZINE
Terrorists. Secessionists. Angry neighbors. Furious lawyers. Corrupt businessmen. Warring politicians. Smoldering generals. And an accidental president, Asif Ali Zardari, with the job of keeping his country, Pakistan, from becoming the most dangerous failed state in the world. PAGE 26
Kicking Off 27
BOOK REVIEW
Submerged for years in a murk of international literary diplomacy and scrupulous academic exertion, ''The Letters of Samuel Beckett'' has finally surfaced. Who knew that in his private writing, the first volume with three more to come, he would be so humanly forthcoming? We always knew he was brilliant, but this brilliant? PAGE 1 ARTS & LEISURE
Shawn Levy is one of only about a dozen Hollywood directors to have made a live-action comedy that crashed through barriers of age, class and audience fragmentation to take in more than $200 million at the domestic box office. In his case it was with his 2006 after-hours romp ''Night at the Museum,'' and now he returns with the sequel, ''Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian.'' PAGE 1
Still a Thrilla 21
TRAVEL
As the world economy tanks, a surprising number of travelers are deciding to take advantage of the recession's inevitable effect on the tourism industry. Some air fares are at the lowest level in years, and hotels are scrambling to fill rooms by cutting rates 40 percent or more. For vacationers who can still afford to take advantage, there are some incredible deals out there. PAGE 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (88%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (96%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (96%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (77%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); ERIC HOLDER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (69%) ALSACE, FRANCE (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); MEXICO (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



148 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW 'THE BEGGAR'S OPERA' ; 'THE THREEPENNY OPERA'; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: The Sly and the Shady On Two Opera Stages

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
Given the cozy ways of Wall Street and the global economic meltdown, the Manhattan School of Music's production of Benjamin Britten's version of ''The Beggar's Opera,'' John Gay's satiric 1728 masterpiece, is all too timely. The band of thieves, traders in stolen goods and corrupt magistrates who appear in this inventive senior workshop production, directed by Dona D. Vaughn, which opened on Thursday night, treat one another with oily courtesies. The observations they share, from Gay's original lines, delivered in cockney accents, have eerie resonance.
 ''Lawyers do not care if anyone gets a clandestine livelihood but themselves,'' says Mr. Peachum, the receiver of stolen goods, as he ponders his accounts and plots against Captain Macheath, the charismatic highwayman who has married his impulsive daughter, Polly. 
 And Lockit, the corrupt jailer, notes that we all take advantage of our neighbors, yet herd together. ''Of all animals of prey,'' he says, ''man is the only sociable one.'' 
 In a coincidence of scheduling, on Wednesday night a Columbia Stages production of ''The Threepenny Opera,'' the 1928 musical play by Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill also adapted from Gay's ''Beggar's Opera,'' opened at the Riverside Theater, directed by Henning A. Hegland and sponsored by the Columbia University School of the Arts. So two works inspired by Gay's watershed ballad opera are playing practically next door in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan. Neither director knew that the other production was happening until recently. 
 In the original ''Beggar's Opera'' Gay satirized injustice, pervasive corruption and politics, specifically the machinations of the Whig statesman Robert Walpole. But the work also took on the London public's insatiable taste for Italian opera, both imported and homegrown works, notably those of Handel, who had been thriving in London since 1710. 
 The Italian opera craze was already quieting down when ''The Beggar's Opera'' became a theatrical sensation. But Gay's work put another deflating prick into the boom. For the tunes of the airs and songs in his play, Gay borrowed themes from opera arias, church hymns, folk tunes and popular ditties of the time, 69 in all, with an overture composed by his collaborator Johann Christoph Pepusch. The original manuscript contains only the melodies and the lyrics, with some sketchy bass lines added. Any production of ''The Beggar's Opera'' is by definition an adaptation.
 Britten thought that earlier versions had softened the edges of the original tunes and blunted the overall pungency of the music. So in his 1948 work he devised chamber orchestra accompaniments alive with contrapuntal inner voices and piercing harmonies. In certain numbers he combined tunes, producing brilliant ensemble pieces and choruses. 
 The Manhattan School production -- a senior project staged in the Ades Performance Space, which seats about 200 -- is charming. Before the performance the director explained to the audience that each costume had been assembled, borrowed, rented, found or whatever by the singer wearing it. And the props, which include a steel-framed bed to evoke the jail Macheath is locked in, look as if they were either taken randomly from the set shop or found on the street. Still, the scrappy look of the show is just right. 
 The singers are alternating roles during the short run. On Thursday night Victoria Vargas as the Beggar who narrates the show, Chris Lysack as Macheath, Arthur Miller as Mr. Peachum, Whitney Hughes as Mrs. Peachum, J'nai Bridges as the lovestruck Polly, Suzanne Merrill as Lucy (Polly's rival for Macheath's devotion) and Drew Santini as Lucy's father, the jailer Lockit, did lively and engaging work. Jorge Parodi drew a deft performance from the chamber orchestra.
 ''The Threepenny Opera,'' a loose adaptation of Gay's original work with new text and music, is a typically cynical and bitterly entertaining Brecht-Weill theater piece, performed here in an English translation by Michael Feingold. Nicholas DeMaison elicited sometimes shaky but colorful playing from the musicians of Opera Cabal. Mr. Hegland, a director from Norway and a candidate for a Master of Fine Arts degree at Columbia, has staged a fluidly paced production with some intricate ensemble scenes that are almost choreographed. 
 The cast members -- old and young, veterans and fledglings -- seem to have been selected for their dramatic skills over their vocal endowments. There is a cabaret character to ''The Threepenny Opera,'' and fancy operatic singing is not called for. But some of the vocally weaker actors forgot an abiding maxim of musical theater: When you don't have a voice, make the words count even more.
 Still, it was a dynamic show. Neal Moeller's menacing Macheath, R. Paul Hamilton's imposing old Peachum, Caroline Kaplan's calculating Polly and Rebecca Comerford's manic Lucy were standouts.
 ''The Beggar's Opera'' continues through Sunday at the Manhattan School of Music, 122nd Street and Broadway, Morningside Heights; (917) 493-4428. Performances are sold out. ''The Threepenny Opera'' concludes Saturday at the Riverside Theater, 91 Claremont Avenue, at 120th Street, Morningside Heights; (212) 870-6784. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, J'nai Bridges, Chris Lysack and Suzanne Merrill in ''The Beggar's Opera.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HATTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); THEATER (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: The Beggar's Opera (Opera)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



149 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Who's Most Indebted? Banks, Not Consumers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
FIFTY years after executives at Bank of America had a clever idea -- issue credit cards to ordinary consumers -- the leveraging of America may finally be over. The amount owed by consumers, in relation to the entire American economy, has started to fall.
 But it is not consumers whose willingness to take on debt was most notable during the half-century. It is the financial sector itself. The banks that made the loans proved to be much more willing to borrow than their customers, whether corporate or consumer. 
 And that debt has not begun to recede, despite Wall Street bankruptcies and widespread efforts by financial firms to reduce their own debts.
 At the end of 2008, according to the Federal Reserve Board, total debt in the financial sector came to $17.2 trillion, or 121 percent of the size of the gross domestic product of the United States. That was $1 trillion more than a year earlier, when the total came to 115 percent of G.D.P.
 Half a century earlier, the financial sector debt was $21 billion, which came to just 6 percent of G.D.P.
 Household debt, by contrast, stood at $13.8 trillion at the end of both 2007 and 2008, allowing the debt as a proportion of G.D.P. to fall to 97 percent from 98 percent.
 Peter L. Bernstein, an economist and financial historian, drew attention to that trend last month in his publication ''Economics and Portfolio Strategy.'' He says he thinks households will choose to continue cutting debt even after the economy begins to recover. Even if they want to keep borrowing, he wrote, ''The free and easy days of reckless borrowing from 2000 to 2007 are hardly likely to repeat.''
 He added that such a decline in debt would reflect ''a sustained reduction in the appetite for consumption, which has been the driving force of growth in the economy over the past 15 years or so.'' And that, he said, will ''be a powerful drag on economic activity for an indefinite period of time.''
 Debt levels of nonfinancial businesses rose during a period of high profits earlier in this decade and kept growing last year. The high levels of debt left some companies ill prepared for the combination of recession and tight credit markets that developed in 2007 and 2008.
 Government borrowing has soared over the last year and seems likely to continue doing so as the bailouts grow. But over the longer term, the changes have been minimal. In 1958, the total debt of governments, from the federal level down to the smallest town, came to 60 percent of G.D.P. Half a century later, the proportion was just about the same.
 Put another way, in 1958, of every $100 in loans in the country, governments accounted for $44 of the borrowing. At the end of last year, government borrowing accounted for only $17 of each $100, while the proportion borrowed by companies and consumers was far higher.
 The changes reflect the rapid changes in the American financial system over those years. Not only did consumer credit become much more widely available, as the Bankamericard became Visa and drew competition from other credit cards, but the ways banks financed their loans also changed. 
 In 1958, 75 percent of financial sector debt was on the books of traditional financial institutions -- banks, savings and loans and finance companies. Now the proportion is 18 percent.
 Over the half-century, a myriad of financial products and institutions were created to borrow money and own assets, so that one loan to a consumer could create a myriad of debts as it was bundled into a pool that issued securities to buyers that, in turn, borrowed money to finance their purchases. That created a mound of debts that enhanced profits in good times but left financial institutions vulnerable if the value of their assets began to fall.
 One of the major questions of the current financial crisis is how many of those innovations will endure and how much they will be changed. It seems likely that the result will be a contraction of financial sector borrowing, but so far that does not show up in the statistics. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Leveraging of America: Over the last 50 years, debt levels in the United States soared for households, and went up even faster for the financial sector. But the increases were smaller for nonfinancial businesses, and total government debt ended the period about where it began.(Source: Federal Reserve, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); HISTORY (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



150 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Escape and Support

 BODY:
Brandon Jose Mendoza will start graduate school at the University of Pittsburgh this fall, studying for his master's degree in public administration. After he graduates, he wants to do economic-development work in urban areas. He knows about tough times and how the right help can change a life. 
 Mr. Mendoza grew up in a rough section of Brooklyn with a mother who has been battling a drug addiction all his life. Starting when he was 6 years old, he and his brother, Miguel, found an escape. For two weeks every summer they would go on a family stay in Cape Cod, Mass., arranged by the Fresh Air Fund. ''Our Fresh Air family wasn't our only positive influence in life, but it was a huge influence,'' Mr. Mendoza said. ''It reminded us that there are other things out there.''
 When Mr. Mendoza was 13, his life took a terrible turn. His brother, only 14, was killed in a fight. Brandon's Fresh Air family, the McKnights, were there for him. ''I can still remember the conversation,'' Mr. Mendoza said. ''They wanted me to come live with them.'' He chose to move in with his father in Pennsylvania instead, but he returned to the McKnights every summer after that. Mr. Mendoza, now 23, still thinks of them as his family.
 The Fresh Air Fund hopes to reach 10,000 New York City children this year. Half of those young people will stay with host families, 3,000 will go to Fresh Air Fund camps and 2,000 will take part in year-round programs. A two-week family stay, like Mr. Mendoza's, costs almost $1,000. Sending a child to camp costs about $1,500. The fund hopes to raise $10.9 million by the end of September.
 Donations can be sent to The Fresh Air Fund, 633 Third Avenue, 14th Floor, New York, N.Y. 10017, or made online at freshair.org. Families who wish to be hosts can write to the same address or call (800) 367-0003.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



151 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Known for Peaches, but Crazy for Peanuts

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

DATELINE: BLAKELY, Ga. 

 BODY:
It is a cardinal rule of Georgia politics never to be on the wrong side of a peanut. 
 And this year, with peanut sales struggling after a national salmonella outbreak that was tied to peanut paste, Georgia politicians are lining up to demonstrate unblinking faith in a crop more plentiful in this state than anywhere else in the country. 
 Seldom has there been more demand for the Georgia Capitol's famous fried peanut-butter sandwiches on Peanut Butter and Jelly Day. Or more photographs with the Miss Georgia Peanut Queen. Or more trips here to Blakely, which hosted the first-ever Peanut Proud Expo in March, two months after the outbreak had been traced to a plant in this town of 5,700. 
 ''The peanut is truly a patriotic symbol,'' Representative Sanford D. Bishop Jr., who calls himself ''the peanut congressman,'' said as he stood in the Blakely town square beneath a ''Peanut Proud'' banner. ''It's a crop that has flourished in American soil and is widely acknowledged as the world's best.''
 Amid the outbreak, national sales of peanuts fell as much as 25 percent this winter. They have since begun reviving, and the effort to help has been distinctly political in Georgia, with the consumption of peanuts a declaration as much of state pride as of culinary preference.
 As with many things in Southern cuisine, the more variety -- and the larger the servings -- the better. ''I ate fried ones, I ate boiled ones, I ate peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, I ate peanut M&Ms, I ate Reese's cups,'' said State Representative Terry Lamar England, who participated in the Peanut Power Hour feast last month at the Capitol, where all items in the buffet shared a certain ingredient. ''Good lands, I don't think I left any peanuts unturned.''
 In the last month alone, Georgians have celebrated not only Peanut Butter and Jelly Day but also Georgia Peanut Farmer Appreciation Day and National Peanut Month. There was also Agriculture Day, during which Gov. Sonny Perdue's staff served peanut butter products.
 Georgia produces twice as many peanuts as the next-largest grower, Texas, and politics and peanuts have long been joined in the state. Its most famous politician, Jimmy Carter, was also the world's most famous peanut farmer. In Georgia's Congressional offices in Washington, visitors find red packets of peanuts in bowls by the door.
 That bond was strained after investigators traced the salmonella outbreak, linked to nine deaths and hundreds of illnesses, to the Blakely plant of the Peanut Corporation of America. The company, which declared bankruptcy in February, had detected salmonella in peanut paste at the plant but shipped the product anyway after further tests that it ordered came back negative.
 In response, Georgia lawmakers passed a bill last month requiring food processors to show the state's Department of Agriculture any positive test results for dangerous contaminants. State Senator John Bulloch, a longtime peanut farmer who sponsored the bill, which the governor is expected to sign, said one bad company had damaged the reputation of a good crop.
 ''We realize that our industry has been battered,'' Mr. Bulloch said, ''but it's not the peanut grower's fault. It's not that we've got a bad product.''
 Peanut lobbyists and farmer associations have been active across Georgia since the outbreak. On March 8, the Georgia Peanut Commission and the Atlanta Motor Speedway, honoring local farmers, gave 64,000 free bags of peanuts to auto racing fans. The National Peanut Board helped sponsor a marathon race in Atlanta last Sunday, giving away thousands of peanuts and offering postrace photographs with Buddy McNutty, a giant mascot.
 The outbreak happened to coincide with the national board's new advertising campaign, ''Peanuts: Energy for the Good Life.'' In response, the board tailored pre-existing promotions to address customer concerns, sending farmers from Georgia and elsewhere to events around the country, including one at Grand Central Terminal in New York, to speak directly to customers about the safety of peanuts. 
 In Blakely, the creation of the Peanut Proud Expo occurred more organically. The town, in the state's southwestern corner, is the seat of Early County, which was once the nation's largest producer of peanuts. A nine-foot monument in the town square pays tribute to ''the peanut, which is so largely responsible for our growth and prosperity.''
 The closing of the Peanut Corporation plant, one of several peanut plants in Blakely, cost 50 more jobs in a community already struggling through the recession. ''We felt sort of maligned, like the media was lumping all peanuts together,'' said Hilary Halford, president of the Blakely-Early County Chamber of Commerce. ''One bad company does not a bad industry make, you know?''
 The one-day exposition attracted 2,500 people, more than anyone could remember having gathered in the town square before, the Chamber of Commerce said. It featured celebrators in peanut costumes, a truck with a giant peanut on top, a peanut recipe contest, a ''cutest goober'' award for the best-looking baby and a plastic swimming pool filled with peanut paste.
 Ms. Halford said the exposition had been a turning point for Blakely on the path to recovery. And she was quick to praise the politicians -- Republican and Democratic, local and state and federal -- who showed up.
 ''We were very pleased with the turnout from our politicians,'' Ms. Halford said. ''Peanuts are really a bipartisan issue.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Public relations on behalf of peanuts have been turned up a notch. Above, Buddy McNutty, mascot of the National Peanut Board, at a marathon race in Atlanta.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In Blakely, the town to which the outbreak of salmonella was traced, a monument nine feet high pays tribute to ''the peanut, which is so largely responsible for our growth and prosperity.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PEANUT FARMING (89%); BACTERIA (89%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

COMPANY: PEANUT CORP OF AMERICA (84%); PEANUT BUTTER & JELLY INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: SONNY PERDUE (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); SANFORD D BISHOP JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



152 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Get In On The Bailout

BYLINE: By RONALD P. O'HANLEY. 
Ronald P. O'Hanley is the president and chief executive of BNY Mellon Asset Management.

DATELINE: Boston 

 BODY:
 AMERICAN taxpayers today own a significant chunk of Citigroup, American International Group and other financial institutions, thanks to the Troubled Assets Relief Program. Therefore, they also own, indirectly, a slice of the toxic assets that reside on the balance sheets of those institutions. And now taxpayers will end up owning even more of these troubled assets, thanks to the Public-Private Investment Program recently announced by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. The question, though, is will they have the chance to benefit from these investments on the same terms as Wall Street? Probably not. Unless we take certain steps.
 Let me explain. 
 The new Treasury plan is intended to encourage ''private money'' to buy toxic financial assets. Investors will have to put up relatively little of their own money, because most of the purchase price will be covered by government loans at low interest rates. The private money will come mainly from companies like the one I work for, sophisticated institutional investors like pension funds, university endowments and hedge funds, which rightly sense a potentially profitable investment opportunity. 
 Treasury's announcement was primarily aimed at these institutions, with only passing reference to ''retail'' investors -- that is, individual investors who own shares in mutual funds and the like. But individual investors should be allowed to buy toxic assets for exactly the price that will be paid by big institutions. In fact, robust retail participation is critical to the success of the program. The A.I.G. bonus controversy shows how angry Americans are at the idea that the financial elite are profiting from taxpayer money. Letting the average investor play on the same terms as the professionals could alleviate some of that anger.
 The attractiveness of the investment opportunity in the Treasury program depends entirely on the purchase price. Buyers and sellers are playing a zero-sum game. If the investors buy cheap, they make money, but the financial institutions, including their taxpayer shareholders, take big losses. If the investors buy dear, they lose money but the financial institutions do much better.
 Nobody knows how the game will turn out, but it is plausible to assume that some smart investors will make a lot of money. That is what happened in the 1990s, when private investors bought distressed assets from the Resolution Trust Corporation, which was created to clean up the savings and loan crisis. This time around, it would be wise to see to it that the profits are spread more widely. 
 Enabling effective participation by retail investors will require ingenuity. First, these investments carry big risks, and it will be imperative to ensure that those risks are understood by all investors. Second, it's not readily apparent how we could get individual investors involved. Most mutual funds, for example, probably couldn't buy toxic assets, because their regulations say that their customers must be able to sell their shares quickly -- and selling a toxic asset is not a quick process. Private investment partnerships, like hedge funds, can buy the toxic assets, but they cannot be offered to the general public. Exchange-traded closed-end funds also are no panacea since investing in these toxic assets requires a long-term commitment of capital and doesn't lend itself to daily valuations and daily trading.
 What we need is a not-yet-invented investment vehicle that would enable ordinary citizens to own a piece of the distressed American financial system. The new vehicle would be open to small investors able to commit to a long-term investment. Perhaps the United States savings bond is a useful model, since it compels people to invest for the long-term without a complicated prospectus or offering memorandum. The Treasury auction process is another helpful model, since it enables small investors to buy Treasury bills and bonds at a price set by large investors. Even the Russian voucher system of the 1990s may contain clues, since it allowed individuals to acquire ownership in what had been state-owned enterprises. (Disclosure: If such a product was created, my firm could wind up selling it to retail investors.)
 During World War II the United States sold war bonds to individuals. Today, we are in the midst of a major financial crisis. What we need for this fight are not war bonds but special equities -- what we might call ''recovery participation equities'' representing an ownership interest in a huge pool of troubled assets. 
 Recovery participation equities would address at least some of the disparities that separate retail from institutional investors. If the Treasury's investment program works, then some big institutions will do very well. And if they do well at the expense of the little guy, the inevitable -- and justified -- outcry will endanger the overall financial recovery plan. To avoid that, we need to enable the investors on Main Street to invest alongside investors on Wall Street. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC ASSETS (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); ENDOWMENTS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



153 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: The Affluent Are Cutting Back, but Not Their Hedges

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THE first stirrings of spring in Fairfield County, Conn., have sounded: the whine of the leaf blowers and the beep of dump trucks full of mulch. But this spring and summer in Fairfield, one of the wealthiest counties in the United States, is shaping up as a tough one, not just for the homeowners -- many of whom work in New York -- but also for the landscapers and other workers they employ. 
 ''A lot of the industry understands its fate is tied to wealth -- to real estate and the stock market,'' said Bob Heffernan, executive director of the Connecticut Nursery and Landscape Association. He said the state's industry generated $1 billion in revenue a year and employed 48,000 people.
 To get a sense of the wealth in the county, consider these figures from Connecticut Expos, which organizes a high-end home show in the county. The average price of a home in Darien was $1.165 million in 2008 and in New Canaan, $1.455 million. Greenwich topped the list, with an average home price of just under $2 million. 
 And the people who buy that average house -- 6,500 square feet on an acre or two -- rely on landscapers, gardeners, pool guys and all manner of tradesmen to keep everything in shape. But many of those homeowners were Wall Street's top earners, and their incomes and investments are down in the troubled economy. So now, they are cutting back. And when they do, the people who maintain their homes feel the brunt of it. 
 An estate that size would be worth close to eight figures, showing that even the world's wealthiest people are worried.
 ''You're seeing the Wall Street guys suffer, but it's a trickle-down effect,'' said Tony Femia, who owns Femia Landscaping and Site Development. 
 ''I have clients who are billionaires, clients who are famous, and the small guy, too -- they're all cutting back.''
 Mr. Femia said he lost only two of his 80 lawn maintenance clients this season. But he said each of those clients told him they were cutting back on lawn services. As a result, he laid off half of his 30-person staff and planned to take some of his 15 trucks off the road.
 ''Let's talk about all the delis who depend on my guys,'' he said. ''What about my insurance agent? I'll use less trucks so that's less money for him. What about my mechanics who depend on fixing those trucks?'' 
 In many ways, landscapers are faring better. Most work directly for their clients, who may cut back but are not about to mow two acres themselves. Tradesmen are struggling even to get work.
 Dan D'Arinzo, an electrician with a wife and three children in North Stamford, had expected to put out a banner this year celebrating 20 years in business. Instead, he is trying to get through the downturn. 
 ''In the area where we live, with Wall Street, they're not sure if they're going to have a job,'' he said. ''They're not going to put money into landscape lighting and generators. The money is not there.''
 Two weeks ago at the Connecticut Expo's annual home design show in Stamford, the number of exhibitors and attendees was down only 5 percent, according to Nick Curci, the company's president. But he said vendors selling products at the highest end -- particularly builders and pool companies -- were struggling.
 Home improvement in Fairfield County was not just for the wealthiest. Until the housing market froze last year, middle-class homeowners were taking equity out of their homes to pay for landscaping and pools. With housing prices down and equity tapped, this group's home improvement plans could be postponed for years.
 Of course, every economic dislocation comes with opportunities. 
 On the upside, if you have money for work around the house, now is a good time to do it. Service providers are more willing to negotiate the price, not least of all because they have their own fixed costs to cover. 
 Jackie Cameron, a landscape architect, said that for the first time a client -- a Citigroup banker with a house in Westport -- asked her to lower her rate. ''At that point, I had no work, so I took 10 percent off the fee,'' she said. ''Price was as much a consideration for him as quality.''
 The bigger the job, the bigger the reduction can be. Mr. D'Arinzo, the electrician, said he watched the overall budget of a large renovation in New Canaan drop from $1.5 million in the fall to $700,000 by spring. The portion for his electrical work dropped accordingly. 
 A project that was $100,000 a year ago, he said, might cost 15 to 20 percent less today. 
 ''I had a guy, a New York City lawyer, who said to me, 'I need an estimate for everything on some indoor lighting, and I need to sign off on it,' '' he said. ''Six months ago, he didn't even know how much I charged.''
 This may seem odd to many people, but Brid Craddock, president of the Connecticut chapter of the Association of Professional Landscape Designers, said in flush years people in Fairfield County were more concerned with speed and securing a sought-after tradesman than haggling over price.
 ''I've had a lot of clients who now want price breakouts -- the patio, the lighting, the flower beds,'' she said. ''They want to know where their money is going. And once it's broken out, they say, 'Let's not do the lighting.' ''
 In other words, do not be embarrassed to negotiate.
 But the downside to this is that fixating on a bargain price could end up costing more in the long run. This is where the old adage ''penny-wise and pound-foolish'' comes into play. 
 There are two main risks from excessive bargain hunting. The obvious one is you get what you pay for, and that could be shoddy work.
 The more serious issue, though, is hiring someone who is not properly insured. Every reputable landscaper or tradesmen will have liability insurance for his employees and be able to produce the certificate. But that insurance is expensive. Mr. Femia said he paid $80,000 a year to insure his workers and equipment. If his employee is hurt mowing your lawn, his insurance covers it. If, however, a worker without insurance is hurt on your property, he can sue -- and end up owning your house. 
 There is another, less tangible cost to both negotiating prices and changing providers in a recession: the value of loyalty. The people who maintain your house are probably being hit as hard as you, if not harder than you, by the downturn.
 Mr. Femia, the landscaper, said a client whose estate he has maintained for 15 years asked him to lower his hourly rate. Instead, Mr. Femia said he showed him how he could save double that on a landscaping bill that was well into the six figures.
 ''Once I said I couldn't lower my hourly rate, he put it out to bid,'' Mr. Femia said. ''That $4 to $5 an hour means a lot to me. I've got guys who have been with me 20 years and make good money. Is that five bucks an hour really that much to a billionaire?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''You're seeing the Wall Street guys suffer, but it's a trickle-down effect,'' said Tony Femia, who owns Femia Landscaping and Site Development. He laid off half of his 30-person staff and planned to idle some of his trucks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (76%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (73%); INSURANCE (70%); LAYOFFS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



154 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Nonprofit Theaters Say Next Season May Be Their Toughest Yet

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Fancy gift bags and elaborate centerpieces were out of the question for Signature Theater Company's spring gala on Monday night at Espace, a reception room on West 42nd Street in Manhattan.
 This nonprofit theater, which has one of the most consistent track records of critically acclaimed productions in New York, had already reduced its fund-raising target by 10 percent. With salary freezes a possibility and other belt-tightening under way, Signature and its nonprofit theater brethren in New York have entered an especially difficult economic period in their history, with the 2009-10 season looming as the toughest financial challenge they have faced, executives say.
 ''Our gala is the simplest of affairs, but this economy is proving to be anything but,'' said Erika Mallin, Signature's executive director. ''This has been a season of ups and downs financially, and things only appear likely to be harder next season.''
 Barry Grove, the executive producer of Manhattan Theater Club, said: ''We certainly have been through downturns before -- with the city fiscal crisis in the '70s, another one in the '80s, the tech bubble in 2000, and after 9/11. But this is the first time that all quarters of the economy that affect theater are taking a hit at the same time.'' 
 William Russo, managing director of New York Theater Workshop, said that major individual donations were down 50 percent this January, compared with January of last year.
 At Keen Company, which has a budget of only $400,000, donations and other revenue streams fell 15 to 25 percent this winter, leading to 10 percent salary cuts and some executives' choosing to wait to cash their paychecks until the company's finances had stabilized. 
 Primary Stages has asked designers to work with its stock inventory, rather than request special rentals, and will mount three productions in 2009-10, one fewer than the current season.
 ''We're also selling more tickets at a discounted rate than at full price, but that's not sustainable in the long term,'' said Andrew Leynse, artistic director of Primary Stages. He is now planning for a 20 percent reduction in next season's budget.
 Leaders of the Public Theater, Roundabout Theater Company, Manhattan Theater Club and several other theaters say they have been heartened by the subscriber renewal rate. But Mr. Grove said that new subscriptions were decreasing, causing an overall decline in subscriptions of about 10 percent.
 As a result, and because of broader concerns about the economy, Mr. Grove and Manhattan Theater Club's artistic director, Lynne Meadow, announced last week that they were cutting the total number of shows next season to six from seven. This winter the theater laid off three full-time employees and eliminated eight paid internships, and Mr. Grove and Ms. Meadow each took salary cuts of 12 percent.
 ''Our revenues will probably be off about 10 percent this year, but it's hard to predict precisely right now,'' Mr. Grove said. ''The prudent course of action was to manage the economic climate on the administrative side and on the number of productions.''
 Roundabout, which has seen a decline in contributions of about 20 percent this season, laid off seven staff members in February, and its three senior executives took a salary cut several weeks ago, said one, Julia C. Levy, the executive director. 
 While the company met its slightly trimmed-down goal of subscribers for next season, single ticket sales have declined, and Roundabout -- like other companies -- is bracing for declines in long-term support from foundations, she said.
 With such a grim outlook, Roundabout executives and their peers at other companies especially appreciate commitments from veteran admirers.
 Ms. Levy added: ''I talked with one donor recently who said, 'I want to continue to support you, but instead of a lump sum payment, can I spread it over three or four months?' It absolutely made my day to hear that sentiment.''
 Even having a hit show may provide only a partial cushion. Lincoln Center Theater's acclaimed production of ''South Pacific'' has been running to packed houses since previews began in March 2008; it grossed $882,694 for the week ending March 29, the sixth-highest amount for a Broadway show that week. (''Wicked'' and ''West Side Story'' were the top earners.) 
 Still, Lincoln Center Theater's fund-raising is down about 10 percent, and the value of its endowment has declined by more than 20 percent because of stock market losses, said Bernard Gersten, the theater's executive producer.
 Last summer's popular run of the musical ''Hair'' at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park also came as a boost for its producer, the Public Theater. While admission was free, patrons donated anywhere from $1 to $2,000 to express thanks for the show, and law firms and corporations held dinners at the Delacorte beforehand -- a revenue maker for the Public, said its executive director, Andrew D. Hamingson. (This production of ''Hair'' has since transferred to Broadway and opened on Tuesday night to favorable reviews and strong advance sales.) 
 Yet Mr. Hamingson has revised revenue projections downward by $3 million for the current fiscal year because of declining contributions and foundation support; the Public's overall budget is $21 million. He expects ''a six-figure decline'' in revenue from preshow Delacorte dinners this summer because of less corporate entertaining. 
 The Public also instituted a hiring freeze in January and laid off four full-time staff members and one part-time employee in February. (It has 82 full-time staff members.) There was also discussion of one show in the Park this summer, instead of the usual two.
 ''We chose to stand by our two offerings, in part because many people experience the Public for the first time by our shows in the Park,'' Mr. Hamingson said. This summer at the Delacorte the Public is presenting ''Twelfth Night,'' starring Anne Hathaway, and ''The Bacchae,'' with music by Philip Glass.
 Atlantic Theater Company had a record number of memberships this year, exceeding 4,000 for the first time. But Jeffory Lawson, the theater's managing director, said he hoped that overall contributions would at least remain flat this fiscal year; the fund-raising goal for Atlantic's spring gala has been reduced by 11 percent.
 ''We're not expecting to change our levels of production for next season at this point, but something could change between now and August,'' he said.
 Some smaller nonprofit theaters have begun looking into mounting more co-productions with other nonprofit organizations based in New York. The Vineyard Theater, which mounted the critically praised ''Wig Out!'' and ''This Beautiful City'' this season, is preparing to announce one co-production for the 2009-10 season, as well as other ''unique collaborations'' to spread out costs, said Jennifer Garvey-Blackwell, executive director of the Vineyard.
 For the current season, she said, expenses have been cut by at least 10 percent across the board, and revenue projections will probably be cut ''well into the double digits for 2009-10.'' 
 Small theaters like the Vineyard are particularly vulnerable to declines in foundation support, given the extent that their budgets rely on such grants. About half of the Vineyard's $2 million budget comes from contributions, and of that $1 million, roughly $600,000 comes from foundations, and those funds will probably start declining, Ms. Garvey-Blackwell said.
 On the positive side, the Vineyard has brought on four new board members since September; each is committed to donating $5,000 and raising another $5,000.
 ''With all of our unknowns,'' Ms. Garvey-Blackwell said, ''it's still such a relief that there are people out there who want to support not-for-profit theater.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Erika Mallin, executive director of Signature Theater Company, and William Russo, managing director of New York Theater Workshop, envision further struggles for their businesses.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (62%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



155 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Indiana Lawmaker's Name Is Said to Surface in Inquiry Into Lobbying Firm

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and CHARLIE SAVAGE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Federal law enforcement officials who raided the lobbyist Paul Magliocchetti's PMA Group appear to be examining the firm's relationship with Representative Peter J. Visclosky, a low-profile lawmaker with big influence over federal spending, people familiar with the matter said this week.
 One person with knowledge of the investigation into the PMA Group said prosecutors had asked specific questions about Mr. Visclosky and his staff. Two people close to Mr. Visclosky, an Indiana Democrat, said he was taking steps to prepare for legal scrutiny, including retaining lawyers to review his compliance with campaign finance laws. All spoke on condition of anonymity, for fear of alienating either the prosecutors or Mr. Visclosky.
 A spokesman for the Justice Department declined to comment. 
 Contacted repeatedly this week over the phone and at his Congressional office, Mr. Visclosky and his staff declined to answer questions about the investigation or his possible involvement. 
 Mr. Visclosky -- chairman of the House appropriations subcommittee for energy and water, and thus one of the ''cardinals'' who control federal spending -- is not the only lawmaker whom prosecutors involved in the case have asked about, people with knowledge of the inquiry say, and it is not clear whether he has become a target. But the prosecutors' interest in him is the clearest sign yet that the investigation of the PMA Group may spread to Capitol Hill. 
 Prosecutors are said to have raided the PMA offices on suspicions that Mr. Magliocchetti funneled money through straw donors to circumvent campaign finance laws. But the seizure of the PMA Group's computer files and financial records last November raised the possibility that the authorities might seek evidence of wrongdoing by members of Congress as well. 
 Mr. Visclosky, 59, was one of the lawmakers with the closest ties to PMA until its recent collapse. He relied heavily on the firm for campaign fund-raising, earmarked millions of dollars each year to its clients and maintained a close bond with a former aide who worked as a PMA lobbyist. 
 Mr. Visclosky is also a member of the Defense Committee's appropriations subcommittee and an ally of Representative John P. Murtha, the Pennsylvania Democrat who is chairman of the panel and PMA's best-known Congressional ally. Like other lawmakers linked to PMA by fund-raising and earmarks -- most are Democrats -- Mr. Murtha has said that he has no involvement in the inquiry and has not hired a lawyer. 
 Since the PMA investigation became public, Mr. Visclosky has fretted aloud that the inquiry may take a toll on his reputation for unblemished integrity in his home district in northwestern Indiana, a Democratic stronghold long notorious for political corruption scandals, Democratic House aides say. 
 Mr. Visclosky is the only lawmaker close to the PMA Group to endorse Republican calls for a House ethics committee investigation of its activities. He has promised to give away $18,000 in suspect campaign contributions linked to the firm, and he has also refiled his 2007 and 2008 campaign finance reports with numerous small corrections. 
 And in a recent meeting of the senior House appropriators about proposals to curb their traditional power to grant earmarks, individual members' pet projects inserted into spending bills, Mr. Visclosky surprised his colleagues by voicing support for the idea, Democrats said. And he appears to have dropped all PMA clients from his list of earmark requests for the 2010 fiscal year, which had to be posted online this week.
 But the two-way flow of money -- campaign money from PMA to Mr. Visclosky, and earmarks from Mr. Visclosky to PMA clients -- had been raising concern in both Washington and Indiana long before the investigation became public.
 He has received more campaign contributions than any other lawmaker from PMA employees since 1989 -- about $270,000, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign finances. 
 And in the last election, nearly 20 percent of the money he raised for his campaign and political action committee, $370,000, came from the PMA Group and its clients. More than two-thirds of that came during the two-month periods in 2007 and 2008 when Mr. Visclosky was completing his annual earmark requests.
 Meanwhile, over the last two years, Mr. Visclosky personally directed more than $33 million in taxpayer money -- nearly a quarter of the earmarked money he obtained -- to clients of the lobbying firm, according to data compiled by Taxpayers for Common Sense, which tracks earmarks.
 One Visclosky project has attracted special attention from critics as an example of the cozy ties among the lawmaker, the firm and its clients: the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana. Mr. Visclosky created the nonprofit center with more than $7 million in earmarks beginning in 2002, saying it would encourage entrepreneurship in his economically depressed district. But its federally subsidized facilities were quickly filled by branch offices of established government contractors who are clients of the PMA Group. 
 The Capitol Hill publication Roll Call reported two years ago that of the center's seven charter tenants, five were PMA clients whose employees contribute heavily to Mr. Visclosky's campaigns. Of the five, only NuVant Systems, a fuel cell company started by a chemistry professor, had its headquarters in Mr. Visclosky's district. Two others -- the Sierra Nevada Corporation, based in Nevada, and ProLogic, based in West Virginia -- are each also reported to be embroiled in federal investigations involving their earmarks. (The center has now signed more than a dozen other non-PMA clients.)
 The son of a former mayor of Gary, Ind., Mr. Visclosky was first elected to Congress in 1984. He has rarely faced serious opposition to his re-election. But he routinely raises big sums, like the more than $2 million his campaign and political action committee brought in last election. 
 He donates the vast majority of the money to other Democrats, an important source of political clout. Like other senior members of the Appropriations Committee, he is believed to aspire to its chairmanship, one of the most powerful positions on Capitol Hill. 
 Though his district has a history of political corruption, Mr. Visclosky has long held himself apart, even once sponsoring a good-government study to find ways to improve the efficiency of local government offices, a move that put him at odds with local Democrats angry at the interference with their turf. 
 But his efforts at reform have had blind spots: his good-government study, for example, was paid for by private companies in the steel and energy businesses who have interests before him in Congress.
 The PMA raid and the spotlight it has put on Mr. Visclosky have so far caused few political ripples in northwest Indiana.
 George Van Til, the Lake County surveyor and a Democrat, recounted Mr. Visclosky's recent pledge to help solve a flood-control problem in a subdivision of Gary.
 ''People appreciate what he does here,'' Mr. Van Til said. ''I sat down with his staff two weeks ago, and when they walked away, I had a commitment for $1.2 million for flood relief.'' 
 He added, ''Unless someone tells me differently -- that he's doing something wrong -- I think he's doing something right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Peter J. Visclosky, Democrat of Indiana, is under scrutiny for his ties to the PMA Group, a lobbying concern.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID UMBERGER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); LOBBYING (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SCANDALS (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: PETER J VISCLOSKY (93%); JOHN P MURTHA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



156 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Mets Put Opener's Pricier Seats Up for Bid

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Going once, going twice, sold to the crazed Mets fan in Queens.
 That is what the Mets are hoping for next week when they auction some of the last remaining seats to the team's home opener on April 13. Unable to sell about 100 of the most expensive season tickets, the team -- for the first time -- is letting fans bid on them for the home opener at Citi Field. 
 ''We're not going to sell all the inventory, so we're giving it a shot,'' said Dave Howard, the Mets' vice president for business operations.
 Given the weak economy, it is not surprising that the unsold seats are also Citi Field's most expensive ones. Until April 8, Met fans can bid on Mets.com for two or four seats in the Delta Club, Ebbets Club and Metropolitan Boxes. 
 Bidding on the Delta Club Gold seats, which are behind home plate, will begin at $525, or face value. Ebbets Club seats, also behind home plate, start at $280 a ticket, and Metropolitan Box seats, 30 rows above the dugouts, cost at least $210 each.
 Bids must be in multiples of $10, and more than one bid is prohibited. 
 Howard said other teams, including the San Francisco Giants, had experimented with ticket auctions and dynamic pricing, in which prices rise or fall based on demand, a practice used by airlines and other businesses.
 He added that he hoped fans who sat in these seats decided the views were worth spending more money on a prorated season-ticket plan. 
 Thus far, the Mets have sold the equivalent of about 25,000 full season tickets, up a little more than 8 percent over last year at this time. 
 But not selling out for opening day could prove embarrassing for the Mets because Citi Field has 42,000 seats, 15,000 fewer than at Shea Stadium. The Mets drew more than 52,000 fans for opening day in each of the last 10 years at Shea, including more than 56,000 fans the last two seasons.
 To help fill every seat this year, the Mets are also selling five-game plans that include a ticket to opening day and tickets to four other home games in April and May, which customers select. Seats are in the left-field and right-field reserved sections, and prices are $15 to $98.
 The Yankees are not auctioning their remaining seats for opening day on April 16, but tickets are still available in the Legends section for $2,625, in addition to a $59.70 ''convenience charge'' and shipping.
 Hal Steinbrenner, the Yankees' general managing partner, acknowledged Thursday that the team might have misjudged how much fans would be willing to spend. The team has been marketing the tickets aggressively, even hiring a high-end real estate agent to help sell them.
 ''There's no doubt that small amounts of our tickets might be overpriced,'' he told reporters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



157 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: PADDLING THROUGH HISTORY
 The rivers in the Dordogne region of southwestern France have invited exploration and settlement since the days of the Neanderthals. Today the scenic landscape still harbors hundreds of caves containing prehistoric creations, as well as remnants of more recent history. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 SLIDESHOW: HIKING THE YUNNAN PROVINCE
 The Chinese authorities have always made it difficult for foreigners to travel in the Tibetan areas, but northern Yunnan, where sweeping panoramas beckon hikers, is an exception. What's more, the local government has adopted relatively progressive tourism policies. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 SLIDESHOW: ON THE STREET
 In an audio slide show, Bill Cunningham discusses the emergence of spring in New York City. 
 nytimes.com/fashion
 SLIDESHOW: BOAT BUILDERS HIT ROUGH WATER
 Boat makers in New Jersey hope to turn the tide as the recession leads to substantial declines in production. 
 nytimes.com/newjersey
 SLIDESHOW: IS CONEY ISLAND ALIVE?
 After the demise of the Astroland amusement park last year, erroneous reports went out around the world that all of Coney Island was shut down. But the rest of the area, from Nathan's Famous Hot Dogs to the world-renowned Cyclone, has not left the Boardwalk, and is preparing for a busy summer.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 SLIDESHOW: THE WEEK IN PICTURES
 Photographs from the past week in New York City and the region, including the roof garden at MoMA, Dell's Maraschino Cherries Company in Brooklyn and Mayor Bloomberg's new campaign headquarters in Queens. 
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 VIDEO: A LATIN ROCK GIANT'S RETURN
 New music videos and songs from Los Fabulosos Cadillacs, once one of the biggest rock bands in the Latin world, which is back after a 10-year hiatus with a new record and tour that opens Saturday at the Hammerstein Ballroom. 
 nytimes.com/music
 SLIDESHOW: THE NEW CLASS OF PHONES
 A look at the new crop of cellphones on display at CTIA Wireless 2009, the industry's largest trade show in Las Vegas. 
 nytimes.com/personaltech
 SLIDESHOW: PORSCHE BUCKING THE INDUSTRY
 A slide show highlighting how Porsche has been driving against the auto industry trend of shifting production to countries where labor is comparatively cheap.
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: BUSINESS PODCAST
 Jeff Sommer talks with Peter Goodman about rising unemployment. 
 nytimes.com/business
 OPINION
 Proof
 My Fantasy Relapse
 Sober or not, some things -- like impending nuclear disaster and come-ons from Hunter S. Thompson -- might call for a drink.
 nytimes.com/proof

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOATING & RAFTING (90%); HIKING (90%); MUSIC (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (75%); BOAT BUILDING (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MOBILE MEDIA (74%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); POP & ROCK (69%); TRENDS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); PODCASTING (61%)

COMPANY: TIDE ASA (69%); NATHAN'S FAMOUS INC (55%)

TICKER: TIDE (OSL) (69%); NATH (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4482 FERRIES (69%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); YUNNAN, CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); AQUITAINE, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); TIBET (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



158 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Manages to Keep a Rally Alive

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY and BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
The gain that Wall Street eked out on Friday was small, but it was enough to sustain a strong rally for the week.
 The latest report on job losses in the United States offered a gut-punch to Main Street after the government said that the American economy shed 663,000 jobs in March and that unemployment rose to 8.5 percent.
 While dire, those numbers for the most part did not surprise investors, who had been bracing for worse. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average initially fell on the news, but quickly shrugged off the data, closing back above 8,000 for the first time since early February.
 Investors were also reassured after the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said Friday that the central bank's strategy to ease the financial crisis was working.
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 39.51 points, or 0.5 percent, to 8,017.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 0.97 percent, or 8.12 points, to 842.50. The Nasdaq composite index gained 19.24 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,621.87.
 Research in Motion helped lead gains in technology shares. The company, the maker of the BlackBerry, said after the markets closed on Thursday that its fourth-quarter earnings rose nearly 26 percent. It also predicted fiscal first-quarter earnings of 88 cents to 97 cents a share, well above the 82 cents that analysts had estimated.
 The banking sector pulled up the S.& P. 500 as Wells Fargo rose 6.6 percent and Bank of America advanced 5 percent on Friday.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 1 point to 98 27/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 2.89 percent, from 2.77 percent late Thursday.
 For the week, the S.& P. 500 rose 3.3 percent and the Dow added 3.1 percent. The gains added to a monthlong rally that has lifted the two indexes. The S.& P. 500 is up 24.5 percent from its lows on March 9, while the Dow has gained 22.5 percent.
 In another report, a private trade group's measure of the strength of the services sector shrank for a sixth month in March and at a faster pace than expected. A services indexfrom the Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing executives, fell to 40.8 last month, from 41.6 in February. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.
 But investors were also confronted with the realization that the economy was likely to remain weak for a some time.
 The Federal Reserve vice chairman, Donald Kohn, in comments prepared for delivery on Friday, said: ''Conditions are not conducive to a substantial and sustained economic rebound, and the Fed will continue to be alert to ways that monetary policy can contribute to economic recovery.''
 Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe on Friday had modest results. Asian shares were generally higher. 
 The Nikkei 225 average in Japan edged up 0.3 percent, leaving it 1.4 percent below where it began the year. 
 The pledges of economic support from the Group of 20 summit meeting on Thursday, and new data showing that China's economy may have turned a corner in March have helped sustain this week's rally globally.
 And investors seemed to support a change to accounting rules that would allow American banks more leeway in how they value assets like mortgage-backed securities.
 ''At this stage, we can't declare with certainty that the final bear-market bottom is in place. But the recent market action leads us to believe that there is a 70 percent probability that we have seen the lows,'' said Puru Saxena, chief executive of Puru Saxena Ltd. in Hong Kong. ''The reason we are still open-minded is the ongoing problems in the banking sector. Eastern Europe is in deep trouble, and it is likely that some European banks will announce shocking results over the following weeks.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MONETARY POLICY (69%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



159 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: A Big Man Arrives, Step by Step

BYLINE: By THAYER EVANS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
The hype surrounding the arrival of Hasheem Thabeet at Cypress Christian School nearly four years ago exceeded his size.
 When Thabeet, the 7-foot-3 center from Tanzania, first came to this nondenominational kindergarten through 12th-grade school in suburban northwest Houston, the students buzzed that he was taller than Shaquille O'Neal.
 That buildup ended when practice came. Thabeet was so awkward that he had to be removed when the team ran three-man-weave drills. Coaches worried that he would collide with teammates. In shell defensive drills, he would follow the player he was guarding to the 3-point line instead of protecting the middle of the lane. Thabeet occasionally missed the rim on free-throw attempts. 
 ''He was terrible,'' said Rory Coleman, an assistant coach at Cypress Christian and Thabeet's former Amateur Athletic Union coach.
 Throughout his follies and challenges at Cypress Christian, Thabeet displayed one consistent trait. He always flashed his toothy grin.
 ''You would never get nothing negative from him,'' Coleman said.
 Now, less than three years removed from his days at Cypress Christian, Thabeet has plenty of reasons to smile. A junior who is still considered a raw talent by N.B.A. standards, he has developed into the Big East's co-player of the year and the league's back-to-back defensive player of the year. He is expected to be a top-five pick in the N.B.A. draft in June. 
 His shot-blocking and rebounding have been instrumental in the run that Connecticut (31-4) made to Saturday's national semifinal against Michigan State (30-6) in Detroit.
 This season, Thabeet is averaging 13.5 points, 10.9 rebounds and 4.28 blocks. Not bad for a player who had to be prodded by his high school coaches to dunk in layup lines.
 ''It's unbelievable,'' Coleman said of Thabeet's development. ''You can't even imagine because you hadn't seen it when he first got here.''
 The first time that Cypress Christian Coach Craig Cleveland saw Thabeet was at an A.A.U. event here in the summer of 2005, just a few years after Thabeet began playing basketball in Africa.
 An assistant coach at Cypress Christian at the time, Cleveland said he was thrilled that he would work with Thabeet and had high expectations for him because of his size.
 After watching Thabeet play, Cleveland was concerned. He recalled Thabeet's being pushed away from the basket by players nearly a foot shorter, losing possession and being so out of shape that he couldn't run up and down the court.
 Instead of attacking the rim, Thabeet relied on fadeaway jumpers. Worst of all, he didn't seemed bothered by being bullied by the opposition.
 ''He didn't have the right mind-set for his size,'' Cleveland said.
 Miami Coach Frank Haith had a similar recollection of Thabeet, whom he recruited. He recalled that Thabeet at first could only block shots. He couldn't dunk unless he had two feet in the lane with no one between him and the basket.
 ''He's way more coordinated and balanced now,'' Haith said in a telephone interview. ''He was always off-balance back then.''
 As awkward as Thabeet was on the court, he fit in smoothly at Cypress Christian while living with a host family. In more ways than one, he became a big man on campus. 
 When Thabeet sustained a concussion in practice and was taken to the hospital, his room was filled by classmates who checked on his well-being. When he played a cook in the school play, he wore a chef's hat and stole the show.
 Thabeet attended his class's senior retreat at a lake, but he skipped the ropes course portion for fear of hurting himself.
 ''He's very bashful,'' said Mary Syms, a teacher at Cypress Christian who taught Thabeet in government and economics. ''He was always very polite.''
 Given an assignment to memorize the preamble to the Constitution, Thabeet first committed it to memory in Swahili so he could fully understand it, Syms said. He then memorized the words in English.
 ''He would go that extra mile,'' Syms said. ''He never complained.''
 Outside school, Thabeet struggled with those who gawked at his size. At Wal-Mart, Coleman recalled, Thabeet was mobbed by onlookers who asked, ''Are you in the N.B.A. and how tall are you?'' At first, he answered the questions sincerely, but he soon became frustrated by the attention.
 So Thabeet started to tell the throng that he was 6-5. He then asked Coleman for the keys to his car and went to sit in the parking lot while Coleman finished shopping.
 Afterward, Coleman explained to Thabeet that the attention would only increase with his success, and he had to be prepared for it.
 ''What you can use, use it,'' Coleman said he told Thabeet. ''What you can't use, let it go in one ear and out the other.''
 Meanwhile, Thabeet dedicated himself to refining his skills in the gym. He began to blossom, and in his only season at Cypress Christian he averaged 16 points, 10 rebounds and 4 blocks.
 Less than a year after his arrival, Thabeet began dominating the A.A.U. events in which he once struggled. Before he chose Connecticut in June 2006, Cypress Christian even had to replace one of the rims in its gymnasium; he had cracked it by dunking so frequently.
 ''He had become a beast,'' Coleman said. ''Couldn't nobody stop him.''
 On Friday in Detroit, Thabeet reminisced about his time at Cypress Christian. He spoke fondly of his role in the school play and his development as a player while at the school.
 ''Every time I look back and see where I was and the way I am right now, it's just a great story,'' Thabeet said. ''I can write my own books. I went through a lot, man. Now, all I can do is enjoy it and be grateful about this opportunity.''
 And with that, Thabeet smiled. Just like old times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hasheem Thabeet, above, with other members of his high school's production of ''Cinderella.'' He played a cook, and stole the show. Last week, he danced with the West Regional trophy.(PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF MARY SYMS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); RELIGION (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (76%); ATHLETES (75%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (62%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (90%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



160 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Service Industries Contracted in March

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Service industries in the United States unexpectedly contracted in March at a faster pace, and consumer confidence held near a record low.
 The Institute for Supply Management's index of nonmanufacturing businesses, which make up almost 90 percent of the economy, fell to 40.8, the lowest level of the year, from 41.6 in February, according to the group. 
 Readings below 50 signal contraction.
 ''These are tell-tale signs that we're not there yet'' in terms of an end to the slump, Anthony Nieves, chairman of the group's nonmanufacturing survey, said in a conference call with reporters. ''It'll take time for different things to kick in. It's not going to happen overnight.''
 The institute's services index was projected to increase to 42, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 67 economists.
 The contraction in services has led to failures at several store chains. More than a dozen retailers have filed for bankruptcy since last year, including Circuit City Stores and Linens 'n Things. This week, Gottschalks, a 105-year-old chain, won permission to shut its remaining department stores.
 A measure of prices paid decreased to 39.1, from 48.1, the institute report showed.
 Manufacturing, which makes up the other 12 percent of the economy, is shrinking at a slower pace. The institute's factory index rose to 36.3 in March, a third consecutive gain that brought it closer to the breakeven point of 50, figures showed on April 1.
 Some segments of the service industry are steadying. Retail sales excluding cars and trucks unexpectedly gained in February, the Commerce Department said March 12, and consumer purchases increased for a second consecutive month.
 New autos sold at an annual rate of 9.86 million units, according to Autodata, a company that tracks sales. In February, that number was 9.1 million, a pace that was the lowest since 1981.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (55%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (55%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



161 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Some Tips for Homebuyers On Using Mortgage Brokers

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
It's a bad time to be an honest mortgage broker.
 In recent months, some of the biggest companies in real estate have decided to stop working with brokers. Chase won't lend to brokers' clients anymore. The PMI Group, one of the biggest companies in the mortgage insurance business, flat out refuses to underwrite any policies on loans that started with a broker.
 Meanwhile, a bill is moving through Congress that would ban a common practice from a few years ago, where brokers earned more money by putting clients in loans that were potentially damaging. The legislators' ire is tarring even those brokers who never engaged in such shenanigans. 
 All of this is happening just as borrowers need plenty of guidance. Mortgage rates are low, fueling demand for refinancing. But banks' loan rules seem to change by the day, and many banks don't have the staff to handle the volume. 
 So if you're hoping to refinance or looking to snap up a bargain home in the next year or so, you're faced with a tricky question. Given the number of institutions that want nothing to do with mortgage brokers, shouldn't you stay far away from them as well?
 The alternative, alas, may not be so great either. ''If you want to get ripped off, go to a broker, and if you want incompetency, go to a bank,'' said Mike Stoffer, a mortgage broker himself with Stoffer Mortgage in North Canton, Ohio, who admitted to occasional shame when he tells people what he does all day. 
 Mr. Stoffer tosses off that comment with a slight chuckle. But his brave and brutal honesty suggests the real possibility of getting a raw deal from brokers when you don't understand where their loyalties lie.
 Mortgage brokers work for themselves, not for you. They do not provide a personal shopping service and may compare only a handful of lenders on your behalf. If you want to be sure you're getting the best rate and the lowest costs, the only way to come close to succeeding is to hunt extensively on your own. 
 We'll get to that below, but first a brief interlude to explain why there is so much hate (and self-hate) in the industry. Take Chase, for instance. The bank is ostracizing mortgage brokers because it wants the most suitable loan applicants. In the past, the bank argues, more loans from brokers ended up troubled than other mortgages.
 Nonsense, say the brokers, who say they believe that banks simply want to cut costs and reduce competition. ''Over the last 12 to 15 years, we've held the majority of the market share in residential mortgages,'' said Marc Savitt, president of The Mortgage Center, a mortgage broker in Martinsburg, W.Va., and the president of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers. ''That happens because we give our customers good service and good rates. Otherwise, consumers wouldn't be using us.''
 But it's also possible that consumers simply don't know they could do better. A study for the Department of Housing and Urban Development published last year examined 7,560 30-year, fixed-rate Federal Housing Administration loans that closed in the middle of 2001. It found that when mortgage brokers were involved, borrowers paid about $300 to $425 more in fees than when consumers worked directly with lenders, other loan characteristics being equal. 
 ''A lot of people went to a mortgage broker because they think the mortgage broker is out looking for the best deal for them,'' Mr. Stoffer added. ''My job is to offer very competitive rates and offer financial planning and competency.''
 That, at least, is a start, but you shouldn't limit your mortgage shopping to a single broker, and brokers don't expect you to. Nor should you stop at just a couple of brokers. Here are three of the most important steps on your journey to home financing.
 THE COMPARISON Shopping will be simpler if you pick a specific kind of loan and look only for that, say a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage with no points. Because rates (and terms) can change daily, take an entire weekday and make all your calls. This sounds severe, but there's no other decent way to compare apples to apples. 
 Start with a credit union or two. Hit a few community banks. Then try a few big national banks nearby. Give your investment firm a shout and the bank that has your checking account, since they may offer you a deal. And if you're refinancing, don't forget your current lender.
 Next, call a few mortgage brokers recommended by people you trust. Talking to more than one isn't a breach of etiquette. ''You're making the largest financial decision of your life,'' said Mr. Savitt of the mortgage brokers' association. ''Why not check out what everybody has got?''
 THE COMPENSATION If you find mortgage brokers who can match or beat the best rate and deals you found elsewhere, see if you can get a straight answer to the question of precisely how they are getting paid. In general, they either make money directly from you via a fee of some sort or they get money from the lender (or some combination of the two). 
 Brokers may tell you not to worry, that their fee comes from the bank. Or they may say they merely mark up a wholesale interest rate (that a bank offers to the broker) to retail (which the brokers then offer to you). 
 This is fine as far as it goes, as long as the rate and costs are better than what you could get yourself (go ahead and check with the bank). The problems in recent years, however, came when banks offered more money to brokers who pushed certain loans or terms, say loans with interest rates that rose quickly and imposed penalties if the borrower refinanced within a few years. 
 ''The ways brokers were paid created a conflict of interest and really meant that the broker to a very large extent was financially rewarded by betraying the trust of the borrower,'' said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat from North Carolina who co-sponsored the legislation in the House of Representatives. 
 Though many of the worst loans don't exist anymore, it's still worth asking mortgage brokers point blank whether their yield-spread premium -- the industry term for the money they earn from lenders -- could be lower if you were in a different type of loan. And if you don't understand the answer, run it by an accountant or a more sophisticated friend whose compensation does not depend on the answer.
 Working with a member of the Upfront Mortgage Brokers Association may help, since they've agreed to outline the sources and size of their compensation at the beginning of the process. 
 THE GUARANTEES If you're comfortable with the answers so far, you've probably found a good match. There are plenty of mortgage brokers out there who earn their keep, and the best of them know much more about home loans than a bank officer will ever forget. Still, I'd test them with two more questions.
 First, ask if they'll guarantee the rate and costs in the good faith estimate they give you when you apply with a lender. ''Good faith estimates are nothing but a sham,'' said Mr. Stoffer, who has tried to fix what he sees as an industrywide problem by sticking to his own projections on the costs of the loan. ''If I'm wrong on my good faith estimate, then I pay you. We should all have something binding upfront so people can shop.''
 Second, ask if they'll sign a piece of paper agreeing to work solely in your best interest. The legal word for this is ''fiduciary, and Senator Charles E. Schumer has been trying to force this standard upon mortgage brokers for a couple of years. Representative Miller agreed that this would be ideal but that it was probably not politically realistic. 
 Maybe it isn't. But that shouldn't stop you from trying to hold your own broker to a higher standard.
 Joe Nocera, who writes the Talking Business column, is away. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Stoffer, a mortgage broker in North Canton, Ohio, says one advantage of using a broker is competence.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BROKERS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LOAN BROKERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (90%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



162 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: The Last Pullman Porters Are Sought for a Tribute

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
For more than a century, Pullman porters were a part of American train travel, until competition from planes and automobiles led to the decline of sleeper cars. Now the last generation of porters -- who played a critical role in African-American history -- is rapidly dying off. And Amtrak is attempting to locate the last few for National Train Day.
 In 2001, the A. Philip Randolph Museum compiled a national registry of black railroad employees who worked from the late 1800s to 1969, a record that could be useful for historians and genealogists. 
 ''There are a thousand people on this list -- as we mark it up, it's not looking like the same list anymore,'' said Hank Ernest, who is coordinating the publicity for Amtrak. Asked how many they had found, he said, ''Double digits.''
 For his book ''Rising From the Rails,'' Larry Tye interviewed about two dozen former Pullman porters, so called because they worked for the Pullman Company, which made sleeper cars. ''The youngest were in the 80s at that time, and the oldest were in their early 100s,'' he recalled. In between the time he did the interviews and when his book came out in 2004, he estimated, a third of those men died. Another third have died since then, he estimates.
 ''The fact they are disappearing is taking with them a piece of American history,'' Mr. Tye said.
 Though it could be demeaning, the job of porter was considered for decades one of two good jobs for black men in the United States. (The other was working in the post office.) At its peak, the Pullman Company was the largest single employer of black men in the United States, employing 20,000.
 The Pullman porters laid the groundwork for the civil rights movement by forming the first black labor union, the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, under the leadership of A. Philip Randolph in the 1920s. The union gave leadership and money to the civil rights movement.
 It was a former Pullman porter, E.D. Nixon, who selected Rosa Parks as the sympathetic figure for the Montgomery bus boycott, and recruited a young minister named Martin Luther King Jr. to lead the protest.
 ''If Martin Luther King was the father of the civil rights movement, then A. Philip Randolph was the grandfather of the civil rights movement,'' Mr. Tye said.
 The Pullman porters also played an important role in the great black migration, since they were the only blacks who regularly moved between the South and the North. By carrying copies of black newspapers like The Chicago Defender and The Pittsburgh Courier, they offered Southern blacks in small towns a glimpse of what life was like in the big cities.
 The porters were also playing a critical role in gaining an economic foothold for their descendants. ''They are -- to a disproportionate extent -- the father, the grandfathers, the uncles of the black professional class today,'' Mr. Tye said.
 A number of prominent black figures have Pullman porters in their lineage, he said: William E. Kennard, a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, had a Pullman porter grandfather; Thurgood Marshall, the Supreme Court justice, and Willie Brown, a onetime mayor of San Francisco, were the sons of Pullman porters.
 The porters' wages were supplemented by tips, and at times they threatened to strike if tips did not improve. An 1890 article in The New York Times debated the ethics of tipping porters: ''Tipping is objected to by austere and frugal American moralists upon the ground that it undermines the manhood and self-respect of the tippee. But this proposition loses all its force when the tippee is of African descent.''
 But with meager wages, Pullman porters made substantial contributions to their home communities. For example, in the late 1800s, a Pullman porter built and supported a school that educated hundreds of black children in Covington, Ga.
 The Pullman porters were the inspiration of George Pullman, the company's founder, which is why they were often called George, regardless of their real names.
 He was looking for the perfect servant to signify the luxury train experience. ''Who better to hire than ex-slaves?'' Mr. Tye said. ''They were brilliantly attentive. They were incredibly inexpensive to hire.'' Not only were they servants, they provided entertainment, as they were organized into choruses, orchestras or bands.
 The porters largely settled in cities that were major rail stops -- Chicago, Boston, Washington, New York -- but they could be found anywhere the railroads ran. ''We found pockets of them in Nebraska, in Omaha,'' said Mr. Ernest, who works for Images USA, which is working with Amtrak on the National Train Day project.
 The men have retained a certain dignity. ''When we find them, they are dapper,'' Mr. Ernest said. ''They are men, even at this age, who wear suits and ties.''
 ''They will look at you and have a great conversation, because back then that's what they had to do,'' he said.
 Former porters should contact Saunya Connelly of Amtrak at (202) 906-4164 or connels @amtrak.com with the following information: name, telephone number, mailing address, age, years of railroad service, and routes if known. The deadline for response is April 14. A ceremony honoring the porters is scheduled to take place during the celebration of National Train Day, on May 9, at 30th Street Station in Philadelphia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pullman porters in the 1940s at Union Station in Chicago, top, and aboard the Capitol Limited between Chicago and Washington. Porters will be honored at an observance May 9.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACK DELANO/FARM SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); MEN (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); GENEALOGY (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (71%)

COMPANY: PULLMAN CO (70%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336212 TRUCK TRAILER MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3715 TRUCK TRAILERS (70%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



163 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Cuts That Obama Sought in Farm Subsidies Meet Stiff Resistance

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Among the audacious proposals in President Obama's budget was a plan to save more than $9.7 billion over a decade by putting strict limits on farm subsidies that are disbursed regardless of market conditions or even whether the land is actively farmed. 
 But Mr. Obama's grand ambitions have run into political reality. 
 The budget outlines approved by the House and Senate on Thursday night do not include limits on farm subsidies at all, and even champions of change say that if the president's plan can be revived, it will have to be scaled back so significantly that the savings could amount to just several hundred million dollars. 
 Some of the fiercest critics of farm subsidy programs say the new administration overreached in offering a proposal that could have cut off payment not just to large corporate agribusinesses, but also to medium-sized family farms that might not even be profitable, setting off a huge alarm in the powerful farm lobby. 
 The White House plan would have prohibited so-called direct payments to farms whose annual gross receipts exceeded $500,000 -- a large sum on the surface, but one that did not take account of whether those receipts yielded any real profits. 
 Within days, the National Farmers Union, which represents roughly 250,000 farm families, forcefully denounced the president's plan and urged Congress to oppose it. The group's board also raised the issue at a meeting with officials at the White House 
 While Mr. Obama's Democratic allies on Capitol Hill adopted much of his budget template, the farm subsidy limits never got off the ground. 
 In the House, farm-state lawmakers told the Budget Committee chairman, Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina, that they would not support any budget plan that tinkered with hard-fought agreements they struck in passing last year's omnibus farm bill. 
 And in the Senate, Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, chairman of the Budget Committee and an ardent defender of agricultural interests in his state, quickly discarded the president's proposal. 
 Even some of the toughest critics of farm subsidies would not endorse the president's approach. 
 Representative Ron Kind, a Wisconsin Democrat and a major advocate of cutting subsidies, has been working with the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, to revamp Mr. Obama's plans. 
 ''There's more that we can do to tighten up these programs,'' said Mr. Kind, who is urging an eligibility cap of $250,000 in income. 
 Other critics of farm subsidies said that the initial White House proposal, while bold, missed the mark. 
 ''It cast a cloud over the whole gesture to have something like that,'' said Ken Cook, the president of Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit that has energetically lobbied to reduce farm subsidies. 
 Mr. Cook suggested that the administration had done a more careful job in laying the groundwork for initiatives on climate change and health care. ''In this case,'' he said, ''it was thrown out there and those of us on the reform side of the agenda really found ourselves in an awkward position.'' 
 Amendments to adopt some of Mr. Obama's limits were defeated by the Budget Committees in both chambers. 
 Congressional Democrats and the Obama administration said that the budget resolutions adopted Thursday protected Mr. Obama's top priorities, on health care, energy and education, while also reducing the deficit. 
 But administration officials also conceded that the president's farm proposal was far more ambitious than lawmakers were willing to endorse. The officials said they had not given up on the idea of ending government subsidies for the wealthiest farmers just as they plan to end the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. 
 ''We look forward to continuing the conversation with the leadership and the relevant committees and the stakeholders in finding the best way to support rural America and get some savings and efficiencies out of agricultural programs,'' said Kenneth S. Baer, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget. 
 In the Senate, Mr. Conrad did help with approval of a budget provision that would save $350 million over five years by making modest cuts to crop insurance programs, but it was far short of the $2 billion in cuts to insurance programs that Mr. Obama had proposed. 
 As part of his budget plan, Mr. Conrad also expressed a willingness to consider ''targeted savings in agriculture'' down the line. 
 As usual, party lines in the debate over farm subsidies were blurred in some cases by geographic interests. 
 In the House, Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, joined Representative Earl Blumenauer, Democrat of Oregon, in offering an amendment to cap eligibility for farm subsidies at $250,000 in family income. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, offered a similar amendment in the Senate. Both were defeated. 
 In last year's farm bill, the income eligibility cap was reduced to $750,000 in farm income or $500,000 in non-farm income, from $2.5 million. 
 But even if the Obama administration succeeds in getting a $250,000 cap enacted, it is unclear that it will save much money. 
 In 2007, when the Bush administration proposed a $200,000 income cap, a study by the Agriculture Department found that fewer than 2 percent, roughly 38,000 of more than 2.6 million farm proprietors or landlords of farm properties, reported gross income of more than $200,000 and received subsidy payments. 
 One of those who studied the plan was Keith Collins, then the department's chief economist and now an industry consultant. ''There's just not going to be a lot of savings on a $250,000 hard cap,'' Mr. Collins said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, center, is chairman of the Budget Committee and an ardent defender of agricultural interests in his state.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); AGRICULTURE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); FAMILY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FARMERS UNION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); KENT CONRAD (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%); RON KIND (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



164 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: 2 City Schools Get Washington Mayor's Attention

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The New York City schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein, showed a slice of the nation's largest school system to the mayor of the nation's capital on Friday, taking Mayor Adrian M. Fenty to two East Harlem schools to play word bingo and watch a music class sing and dance with tambourines.
 Mr. Fenty said he made the trip to New York to observe the ''endgame'' of mayoral control of public schools, a controversial governance model that New York adopted seven years ago and that Washington turned to in 2007. He also attended the conference of the Education Equality Project, an education reform alliance that is led by Mr. Klein and the Rev. Al Sharpton. 
 Mr. Klein said he chose the East Harlem schools because of their high performance on city report cards; both schools earned A's and serve many students from poor families and students struggling with English. He said their progress showed the need for mayoral leadership of schools in other urban districts.
 ''When they set high expectations, they reach them,'' he said. 
 But the students seemed more interested in other matters. After Mr. Klein told the children that Mr. Fenty was a friend of President Obama, they burst into cheers. ''Is he the same way as he is on TV?'' one student asked.
 ''He's very personable, very likable,'' Mr. Fenty said. ''If he were here, I know he would want to sit down and give you guys autographs and take pictures.''
 ''I've even eaten a hot dog with him,'' he added. 
 One boy stood up and proclaimed: ''Ooh, I love hot dogs! Especially with ketchup and mustard!''
 In another classroom, students for whom English is not a first language studied a drawing and tried to name the objects they saw -- cows, birds, trees. Mr. Klein expressed approval when he noticed the children were dressed in white uniforms. ''Muchas gracias,'' Mr. Klein offered. ''You look so beautiful! Does everyone like their uniform? So do I!''
 Later in the day, the chancellor met a far less kind audience at a discussion in Midtown at the Education Equality Project conference.
 The panelists included Mr. Klein; Mr. Fenty; Mayor Kevin Johnson of Sacramento; Michael L. Lomax, the United Negro College Fund president and chief executive; and Margaret Spellings, the former United States secretary of education. But first, Mr. Sharpton turned the floor over to Councilman Charles Barron, a frequent critic of New York's education reform efforts.
 ''The mayor is out of control,'' Mr. Barron bellowed to scattered cheers from the audience of about 200. ''No one should have that dictatorial, autocratic power.'' Mr. Klein stood with his arms folded, shaking his head. 
 When Mr. Barron had finished, Mr. Sharpton returned to the lectern. ''Isn't it wonderful when we can all eat and shout at each other together?'' he joked.
 In his remarks, Mr. Klein said schools in both New York and Washington had much work to do, and noted that low-income fourth graders in Washington lag behind their counterparts in New York City and Charlotte, N.C., by two years. ''How long are we going to continue with all the adult power issues when our kids suffer?'' he said.
 When the time came for questions, audience members directed their concerns at Mr. Klein and his leadership of the 1.1 million-student school system over the past seven years. They said he had eviscerated the power of local school boards and left parents without a voice in the decision-making process. Some booed the chancellor and said schools were not teaching enough black history. 
 Later in the afternoon, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. addressed the conference, calling on the audience to support efforts to ''not merely lift us out of the recession'' but to ''change the game.'' 
 Mr. Biden described education as the ''single best ticket to the middle class,'' and he urged the audience to set high expectations for children. He said teachers should inform students about Pell Grants, federal aid for poor and middle-class college students, starting in middle school.
 ''It's all about the neighborhood,'' Mr. Biden said, ''it's not about grand schemes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); FAMILY (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%); AL SHARPTON (53%); KEVIN JOHNSON (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



165 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Big Bonuses At Fannie And Freddie Draw Fire

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two troubled companies at the heart of the nation's mortgage market, are set to pay their employees ''retention bonuses'' totaling $210 million, despite calls from lawmakers to cancel the payments.
 The bonuses, which were made public on Friday, were defended by the companies' federal regulator, James B. Lockhart, who said he intended to let them proceed. 
In a letter sent last week to Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican, Mr. Lockhart disclosed that 7,600 Fannie and Freddie workers were scheduled to receive payouts aimed at retaining those ''employees most critical to keep and difficult to replace.'' Under the plan, 213 employees will receive retention bonuses worth more than $100,000 this year, and one Freddie Mac executive will receive $1.3 million. 
 Those figures drew sharp rebukes from Mr. Grassley and other lawmakers, who noted that Fannie and Freddie had received pledges of $400 billion from taxpayers to offset huge losses since they were seized by the government in September. Similar bonuses paid by the American International Group, which was also bailed out by taxpayers, incited fiery attacks from the White House and legislators when they were revealed last month.
 ''It's hard to see any common sense in management decisions that award hundreds of millions in bonuses when their organizations lost more than $100 billion in a year,'' Mr. Grassley said in a statement. ''It's an insult that the bonuses were made with an infusion of cash from taxpayers.''
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee more than half of the nation's mortgages, and are essentially the only firms currently lubricating the nation's mortgage marketplace.
 Last month, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, demanded that the companies rescind $4.4 million in retention bonuses paid to Fannie's four top executives last year. Such bonuses are often offered to keep executives from leaving a company.
 ''I'm skeptical that these people have job offers to go elsewhere,'' Mr. Frank said in an interview. ''And in this economy, I don't think it would be hard to find talented replacements for anyone who leaves.''
 Mr. Lockhart, the companies' regulator, rebuffed Mr. Frank's suggestion.
 ''These payments send a signal that we think people are important and we want to keep them,'' said Mr. Lockhart, adding that employees' holdings of company stock became nearly worthless when the government seized the firms. ''If the bonuses are rescinded, it sends the exact opposite signal, and it would be extremely dangerous for the American economy to lose these workers at this point.''
 Representatives for both Fannie and Freddie declined to comment or detail how many employees had left the company, or had threatened to leave if their bonuses were rescinded. In an interview, Mr. Lockhart said he had heard that Fannie and Freddie workers were getting other offers, but did not have specific figures. 
 He added that there was no way to know if the companies could have retained workers with smaller bonuses. 
 The government has become increasingly reliant on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to put into effect federal programs seeking to improve the housing market and the economy. The companies have recently been ordered to oversee a vast new mortgage modification program, to buy greater numbers of loans, to refinance millions of at-risk homeowners and to loosen internal policies so they can work with more questionable borrowers. The company has increased its staff and has asked employees to work longer hours to make sure those new and expanded programs are operating.
 Mr. Lockhart's defense of Fannie and Freddie's bonuses has made him a lightning rod for legislative criticisms. It is also beginning to draw questions about why President Obama has not replaced the regulator, who was appointed by President Bush. The law creating Mr. Lockhart's office, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, established him as the lead regulator until his successor is named by the president and confirmed by Congress.
 By failing to name a successor, say observers, the White House is implicitly backing Mr. Lockhart's stance on the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bonuses, which stands in stark contrast to President Obama's criticisms of the A.I.G. payments. 
 Mr. Lockhart declined to discuss his conversations with the White House, which declined to comment on Friday.
 ''This is a de facto White House endorsement of these payments, which is a little odd considering that everyone spent days talking about how they were shocked by the bonuses given to A.I.G.,'' said Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics, a consulting firm in Washington and a longtime observer of the companies. ''It's also a tempest in a teapot. We should worry less about $210 million in bonuses, and more about the fact that these companies are sitting atop $5 trillion of risks, and if they stumble, the American economy could disappear.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Charles Grassley criticized the bonuses set to be paid at the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BAILOUTS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); BARNEY FRANK (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



166 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Rejecting Aid, One Governor Irks His Own

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C. 

 BODY:
For a millionaire, Gov. Mark Sanford has a reputation for frugality that borders on the extreme. 
 Former employees say he has been known to require his staff to use both sides of a Post-it note. When Mr. Sanford was a congressman, he slept on a futon in his office and returned his housing allowance. And when, after he moved into the Governor's Mansion here, tax collectors declared his family's home on Sullivan's Island a secondary residence subject to a higher tax rate, he appealed and won.
 Now, with his threat to refuse more than $700 million in federal money to stimulate the economy, Mr. Sanford's contrarian streak is taking him from South Carolina, which is second only to Michigan in unemployment, to the national stage. 
 On Friday, just before the Obama administration's deadline, Mr. Sanford became the last governor to certify that he would accept some stimulus money, but declared that he would not accept the $700 million largely designated for education unless the legislature agreed to use a similar amount to pay down the state's debt. (He did, however, accept most of the remaining $2.1 billion for Medicaid, transportation and other uses. Only Mr. Sanford and Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska have rejected the education money.)
 As much as Mr. Sanford's stance has increased his national stature and stoked speculation that he will be a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 2012, it has earned him the fury of many people at home. 
 The leaders of the South Carolina General Assembly, fellow Republicans, are counting the days until his term ends in January 2011. The state's most conservative newspapers have sharply criticized him. The superintendent of education, the president of the public university system and the director of the State Law Enforcement Division -- a member of the governor's cabinet -- have all protested his stance. 
 Even Republican allies like Senator Lindsey Graham, who opposed the stimulus package, have been in a tight spot. In one news release, Mr. Graham criticized Education Secretary Arne Duncan's assertion that he would force the governor to take the money. But Mr. Graham added that the state should accept the money.
 Through the tumult, Mr. Sanford has remained unperturbed. ''I think the fatal flaw of a lot of people in politics is that they want to be loved,'' he said Friday in an interview in his office. ''I sleep like a baby at night.''
 Mr. Sanford opposed the stimulus package from the first, writing op-ed articles saying it placed an unfair burden on future generations and calling it ''fiscal child abuse'' on national television. Once it became law, he said he would review each piece carefully before accepting it, eventually declining some unemployment money but agreeing to take aid that would flow to the state through formulas, like money for Medicaid and educational programs for poor children. 
 That left the so-called stabilization funds, which are more flexible and are controlled by the governor, though 82 percent must be used for education. According to the White House's reading of the law, if a governor refuses the stabilization money, the legislature cannot override that decision and request that money.
 Without the money, predicted State Senator Hugh K. Leatherman Sr., the chairman of the Finance Committee and a Republican, there would be ''budgetary Armageddon.'' Public schools would lose an estimated 3,000 jobs, including 1,500 teaching positions. Prisons could be forced to release thousands of inmates. Tuition and class sizes would increase at universities, which have already suffered larger budget cuts than any other state system this year, according to Harris Pastides, the president of the University of South Carolina. 
 Mr. Sanford said those forecasts were intended to scare people and were based on the faulty assumption that no other savings could be found in the budget.
 Many have accused the governor of blind ideology. But Mr. Sanford points out that South Carolina has a strong legislature and a very weak executive, and the $700 million represents the kind of leverage a governor here can rarely wield.
 ''If this were about some kind of philosophical rip, then I would have indeed obstructed on all kinds of different funds,'' he said.
 Rather, he said, he is withholding the money to push the legislature to retool expensive programs that he says jeopardize the state's economic future, like one that lets retired state employees go back to work without losing their pensions. Paying down debt, he said, will free up millions of dollars a year, unlike the stimulus payments, which will run out after two years. 
 In his tussles with the legislature, Mr. Sanford has rarely had the kind of victory that he has set his sights on now. For years, lawmakers have rebuffed his ideas even though they admit he often triumphed in the court of public opinion. Now, they are relishing the mounting public disgust. 
 ''This issue's about to snag him,'' said State Senator Glenn F. McConnell, the chamber's leader and a Republican. 
 Mr. McConnell said the recession also caused Mr. Sanford's first public stumble, when the state unemployment fund ran out of money right before Christmas and the governor threatened to refuse to sign for a federal loan. ''It was cold,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''Some could call it bold, but it was a cold move, and a heartless-type move.''
 Still, it is not clear how much capital Mr. Sanford's position has really cost him in the state. South Carolinians like their politicians with an independent streak.
 Keven Cohen, a conservative radio show host in Columbia, said that although most of his listeners believed Mr. Sanford should take the money, they respected what they viewed as his principled stand against the stimulus.
 ''I think it's refreshing in an age where there's so much bring-home-the-bacon for your district, he's been so disciplined with money,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''No matter what your political ideology is, you have to admit that the recession has shown us the need for fiscal responsibility.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina, who has threatened to refuse some federal stimulus money, included erroneous information from his office about his housing expenses while he was a congressman. Mr. Sanford passed up a federal tax deduction for away-from-home expenses, one of his aides now says. He did not return a congressional housing allowance. (No such allowance exists.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Mark Sanford's contrarian streak on federal stimulus money is taking him from South Carolina to the national stage.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRETT FLASHNICK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (67%); MEDICAID (67%); CHILD ABUSE (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (91%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (77%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ARNE DUNCAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



167 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama and Turkey

 BODY:
President Obama has wisely decided to visit Turkey during his first official trip to Europe. The United States needs Turkey's cooperation -- in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as with Iran and efforts to broker Middle East peace. But there are also very worrying trends in Turkey's relationship with Europe and its internal politics. 
 Mr. Obama must do all he can to help reverse those trends and anchor Turkey more firmly in the West. 
 The Justice and Development Party scored an impressive re-election in 2007 after pursuing market-oriented policies that brought economic growth and more trade ties with the European Union. That conservative Muslim party also expanded human rights and brought Turkish law closer to European standards.
 Those reforms have since stalled -- partly because of opposition from civilian nationalists and generals who still wield too much clout. (The trial of 86 people accused of plotting a military coup is a reminder of the dark side of Turkish politics.) But Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan also seems to have lost enthusiasm for the European Union bid and the reforms that are the price of admission. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has been especially unhelpful, making clear that he will do all he can to keep Turkey out of the European Union. Mr. Obama must persuade Mr. Sarkozy and others that admitting Turkey -- a Muslim democracy -- is in everyone's interest. And he must persuade Ankara that the required reforms will strengthen Turkey's democracy and provide more stability and growth. 
 We are concerned about Mr. Erdogan's increasingly autocratic tendencies. His government's decision to slap the media mogul Aydin Dogan with a $500 million tax bill smacks of retaliation against an independent press that has successfully exposed government corruption. Ankara's willingness to help rebuild schools in Afghanistan is welcome. But the situation there is dire, and NATO also needs more troops and needs access to Turkish military bases to facilitate the transport of American soldiers and equipment into Afghanistan and out of Iraq. 
 Ankara has played a positive role, mediating indirect talks between Israel and Syria. With Washington's encouragement, Mr. Erdogan could also use his relationships with Iran, Sudan and Hamas to encourage improved behavior.
 Turkey's cooperation with Iraqi Kurds has vastly improved. There are also reports that Turkey and Armenia may soon normalize relations. 
 We have long criticized Turkey for its self-destructive denial of the World War I era mass killing of Armenians. But while Congress is again contemplating a resolution denouncing the genocide, it would do a lot more good for both Armenia and Turkey if it held back. Mr. Obama, who vowed in the presidential campaign to recognize the event as genocide, should also forbear.
 The Bush administration's disastrous war in Iraq fanned a destructive anti-Americanism in Turkey. Mr. Obama's visit is likely to soothe hostile feelings. But he must go beyond that to secure a relationship with an important ally and an important democracy in danger of backsliding. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); COUPS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TAX LAW (69%); HAMAS (69%); WORLD WAR I (68%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (78%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (59%); AYDIN DOGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (93%) TURKEY (99%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ARMENIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



168 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMINST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Barack's Continental Coolness

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS. 
Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
If nothing else, the president's trip overseas helped resolve the longstanding question of who can be more irritating, the Republicans or the French.
 Before we pursue that thought any further, let's agree that the Obamas wowed them in Europe. We were expecting a good reception, given the fact that the previous administration set the bar so low that Barack was able to get hysterical applause just by telling a crowd of students that Americans don't believe in torturing people.
 Back home, we're just grateful that we don't have to sit on the edge of our collective seats wondering how the president will embarrass us next. No more worrying that our chief executive might surprise Angela Merkel with a come-from-behind massage or fall in love with the president of Russia when their eyes meet across a crowded room. 
 In London, Obama was the most popular guy in the gang. When President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and China's Hu Jintao got into a squabble, Obama took them off to separate corners and resolved the conflict, to universal applause. True, it only required switching the word ''recognizing'' to ''note,'' but in diplomatic circles, that's what cool is all about.
 ''Look,'' the G-20ers must have been telling each other, ''he can resolve the controversy over the use of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's list of tax havens, and he knows the difference between Australia and Austria. Surely, this is a new kind of American leader.'' 
 And then it was off to France, where the Michelle-mania spiked as the first lady and her French counterpart, the former fashion model Carla Bruni, went outfit-to-outfit. They both had bows on their coats! The wardrobe commentary was, to be honest, a bit much. However, perhaps we should be grateful to the wives for changing their clothes so frequently. It took our minds off the unemployment figures and allowed the news media to avoid having to cover the discussions on special drawing rights.
 Before the summit began, Sarkozy had threatened to walk out unless he got his way on financial regulation. (When considering our French-versus-Republican contest, note that they both like to go into negotiations announcing that whatever happens, the answer is no.) But once Obama and he got together, the French leader said that despite their differences, his American counterpart was still ''entirely in line with what we want.''
 Which is not entirely comforting. Beyond Barack's not-Bushness, what was it that Sarkozy found so appealing? He praised Obama as ''a very open man,'' but when you think of the things that the French like, is openness really the first thing that comes to mind?
 Is it possible that Obama's winning quality was his willingness to be a good loser? The president's main mission, after all, was to try to talk the French and Germans into supporting a serious global stimulus plan, and he failed. There were other accomplishments, sure. But even the tiniest seemed to have required a lot of pandering. 
 When Sarkozy said France would help with the administration's plan to shut down the Guantanamo Bay prison by accepting one released prisoner -- that would be one as in ''less than two'' -- Obama gushed that it was hard to keep up with ''the great leadership of President Sarkozy, courageous on so many fronts.''
 To be fair, the French, the Germans and the other heel-dragging countries have some reason to be dubious about getting too close to Obama in anything but a photo op. The Europeans don't really trust American presidents to deliver on what they say, particularly if it has to go through Congress.
 While the G-20 was finishing its business, members of Congress were showing how they did theirs by passing a budget resolution. The spending plan was somewhat smaller than the president had requested. The Senate also added the Republican priority of reducing taxes on people who inherit estates of $7 million or more -- a move that would increase the deficit while stimulating the economy approximately as much as eliminating a sales tax on square potato chips. 
 But even so, not a single Republican voted yes on the budget. In the House, the G.O.P. came up with an alternative that would cut more taxes for the wealthy while clamping down on nondefense spending. House Republicans think we invest way too much on these government programs and try to cut back on them every single year that their party is not actually in power.
 In the Senate, Republican Judd Gregg of New Hampshire predicted that the budget plan ''will absolutely put this country on an unsustainable path.'' This would be the same Judd Gregg who agreed to join the Obama cabinet as commerce secretary before a last-minute discovery that the president is a Democrat. 
 Actually, it's no contest when you think about it. The French aren't even in the ballpark. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); ANGELA MERKEL (53%); CARLA BRUNI (51%); HU JINTAO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



169 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Financial Industry Paid Millions to Obama Aide

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Reporting was contributed by Peter Baker, David Johnston, David D. Kirkpatrick, Eric Lipton and Charlie Savage.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Lawrence H. Summers, the top economic adviser to President Obama, earned more than $5 million last year from the hedge fund D. E. Shaw and collected $2.7 million in speaking fees from Wall Street companies that received government bailout money, the White House disclosed Friday in releasing financial information about top officials.
 Mr. Summers, the director of the National Economic Council, wields important influence over Mr. Obama's policy decisions for the troubled financial industry, including firms from which he recently received payments. 
 Last year, he reported making 40 paid appearances, including a $135,000 speech to the investment firm Goldman Sachs, in addition to his earnings from the hedge fund, a sector the administration is trying to regulate. 
 The White House released hundreds of pages of financial disclosure forms, which are required of all West Wing officials. A White House spokesman, Ben LaBolt, said the compensation was not a conflict for Mr. Summers, adding it was not surprising because he was ''widely recognized as one of the country's most distinguished economists.''
 Mr. Summers's role at the White House includes advising Mr. Obama on whether -- and how -- to tighten regulation of hedge funds, which engage in highly sophisticated financial trading that many analysts have said contributed to the economic collapse. 
 Mr. Summers, a former president of Harvard University, was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. He appeared before large Wall Street companies like Citigroup ($45,000), J. P. Morgan ($67,500) and the now defunct Lehman Brothers ($67,500), according to his disclosure report. He reported being paid $10,000 for a speaking date at Yale and $90,000 to address an organization of Mexican banks.
 While Mr. Obama campaigned on a pledge to restrict lobbyists from working in the White House, a step intended to reduce any influence between the administration and corporations, the ban did not apply to former executives like Mr. Summers, who was not a registered lobbyist. In 2006, he became a managing director of D. E. Shaw, a firm that manages about $30 billion in assets, making it one of the biggest hedge funds in the world. 
 ''Dr. Summers was not an adviser to or an employee of the firms that paid him to speak,'' Mr. LaBolt said. 
 He added, ''Of course, since joining the White House, he has complied with the strictest ethics rules ever required of appointees and will not work on specific matters to which D. E. Shaw is a party for two years.''
 A review of hundreds of pages of financial disclosure forms on Friday evening offered an extensive portrait of the wealth of top officials in the Obama administration. The forms detail the salaries, bonuses and investments of the president's circle of advisers, many of whom took deep pay cuts from the private sector and sold their companies to work at the White House.
 David Axelrod, who was the chief campaign strategist to Mr. Obama and now serves as a senior adviser to the president, reported a salary of $1 million last year from his two consulting firms. Over the next five years, according to his disclosure form, he will get $3 million from the sale of the two firms, which provide media and strategic advice to political clients. He listed assets of about $7 million to $10 million, and reported a long list of Democratic clients and a few corporate concerns, including AT&T and the Exelon Corporation, a nuclear energy company.
 The disclosure forms also shed further light on the compensation received by a top Obama aide who previously worked for Citigroup, one of the largest recipients of taxpayer bailout money. The aide, Michael Froman, deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs, received more than $7.4 million from the company from January 2008 to when he joined the White House this year. 
 That money included a year-end bonus of $2.25 million for work in 2008, which Citigroup paid him in January. Such bonuses have prompted political controversy in recent months, including sharp criticism from Mr. Obama, who in January branded them as ''shameful.''
 The White House had previously acknowledged that Mr. Froman received such a year-end bonus and said he had decided to give it to charity, but would not say what it was. 
 The administration said Friday that Mr. Froman was working on giving the $2.25 million to a combination of charities related to homelessness and cancer, which took the life of his son this year.
 The remainder of Mr. Froman's earnings from Citigroup included deferred compensation and bonuses for work performed in prior years, as well as a $2 million payment for waiving his carried-interest stake in several private equity funds. 
 The White House said Mr. Froman decided to take the buyouts to avoid having to recuse himself from foreign-policy issues related to the funds' investments, like India infrastructure, which means he would be taxed at ordinary income rates on the money.
 Millionaires work in a variety of positions across the administration, and they include Desiree Rogers, the White House social secretary. Ms. Rogers, a close Chicago friend of the Obama family, reported income of $2.3 million last year. She earned a salary of $1.8 million from People's Gas & North Shore Gas, along with three other sources of income from serving on insurance company boards.
 Thomas E. Donilon, the deputy national security adviser, reported earning $3.9 million as a partner at the Washington law firm O'Melveny & Myers. His disclosure form says major clients included Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Apollo Management, a private equity firm in New York that specializes in distressed assets and corporate restructuring. 
 Mr. Donilon is also entitled to future pension payments from Fannie Mae, where he worked from 1999 to 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LOBBYING (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); ETHICS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); BONUS PAY (61%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



170 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: With Fall of the Government, a Big Moment for the Czechs Seems to Shrink

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
When President Obama arrives here on Saturday for a meeting aimed at forging closer trans-Atlantic relations, aides say he has opted for a romantic private dinner with the first lady. That, rather than a glass of Czech beer with Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek, who last week invoked Satan's lair to characterize the American president's economic policies. 
 The Obamas also decided to forgo an official state dinner with Vaclav Klaus, the fiery Czech president. His predecessor, Vaclav Havel, famously offered President Bill Clinton a saxophone during a state visit here in 1994, prompting a jam session at his favorite jazz club. 
 But Mr. Klaus will have to settle for a short meeting with Mr. Obama at Prague Castle on Sunday, with Mr. Topolanek in tow. And he may well be upstaged when Mr. Obama meets Mr. Havel, one of Eastern Europe's most celebrated dissidents, later in the day. 
 Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and 10 years after the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary definitively brought down the Iron Curtain by joining NATO, Mr. Obama's visit here was meant to herald a new era in relations between East and West, and between Europe and the United States. 
 Instead, the European-American summit meeting has been overshadowed by the collapse of the Czech government last week, during the country's turn as president of the European Union. This has embarrassed Czechs and cast doubts on Prague's ability to lead the world's biggest trading bloc during difficult economic times. 
 The collapse, in the form of a vote of parliamentary no confidence, has also prompted national soul-searching as to why this young democracy allowed itself to politically implode on the eve of a visit by the American first couple, in whose reflected glory the country had hoped to bask. 
 ''What should have been a moment of triumph in front of the world has become a moment of national humiliation,'' said Tomas Sedlacek, a former economic adviser to Mr. Havel. 
 Other Czech analysts expressed concern that the notably undiplomatic Mr. Klaus, a vociferous critic of state intervention in the economy, would erupt during the Obamas' visit. 
 Czech officials say they are privately praying that Mr. Klaus won't lecture Mr. Obama on how to run the United States economy or offer him his latest book, ''Blue Planet in Green Shackles,'' which argues that the fight against global warming is a threat to freedom. 
 Even without the Czech political storm or the indomitable Mr. Klaus, however, the Obama mania evident across the Continent is tempered here. Czechs have looked with growing alarm at what many perceive as Mr. Obama's forsaking of the free-market principles that this country ardently embraced after decades under Communism. 
 Indeed, many Czechs have long looked to the United States -- not Western Europe -- as a political and economic model. 
 Many here still recall with bitterness the Munich Agreement of 1938, when France and Britain yielded to Nazi pressures and carved up Czechoslovakia. They also remember that President Woodrow Wilsonplayed a major role in the establishment of the first Czechoslovak state in October 1918. Tomas Garrigue Masaryk, the father of that state and its first president, had an American wife.
 Yet in a nation where President Ronald Reagan remains the unrivaled hero of the Cold War, many here fear Mr. Obama is too soft on Russia and too willing to compromise. Last week, Mr. Topolanek reflected that view when he described Mr. Obama's economic stimulus package as ''a way to hell.'' 
 Martin Kotas, 34, a bar owner and staunch supporter of Senator John McCain, the former Republican presidential candidate, recalled that he had literally cried into his beer the night Mr. Obama was elected president. ''We don't want to be under the influence of Putin's Russia and we don't want socialism,'' he said. 
 Mr. Kotas said he worried that Mr. Obama, after completing a review of American security policy, would abandon plans to install a missile-defense radar system in the Czech Republic. The proposed system has polarized Czech society, but many nevertheless view it as an essential bulwark against Russia.
 ''I am worried that people are projecting all of their hopes onto Obama, that they are hypnotized by him,'' Mr. Kotas said. His overriding fear, he added, was that Mr. Obama would ''lead the world on a path of appeasement.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek of the Czech Republic, right, leaving a meeting of the Group of 20 in London on Thursday. A vote of no confidence last week brought down his government.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN DENNIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); VACLAV KLAUS (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CZECH REPUBLIC (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); POLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



171 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief 'Uncomfortable' With Bailouts

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
While acknowledging that the Federal Reserve was ''extremely uncomfortable'' about last year's bailouts of big financial companies, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, said Friday that the central bank's strategy to ease the financial crisis was working. 
 Mr. Bernanke was referring to the Fed's unprecedented decisions last year to step in and financially back JPMorgan Chase's takeover of the troubled investment house Bear Stearns and throw the first of four financial lifelines to the insurance giant American International Group.
 In remarks prepared for a Fed conference in Charlotte, N.C., Mr. Bernanke said the central bank was forced to take action because the collapse of those companies would have dealt a serious blow to the financial system and the national economy.
 The situation underscores the need for new powers to allow the government to safely wind down such huge companies, he said. Mr. Bernanke and the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, recently asked Congress for such powers.
 Credit provided under those company bailout accounts for only 5 percent of the Fed's $2 trillion balance sheet. Still, ''these operations have been extremely uncomfortable for the Federal Reserve to undertake and were carried out only because no reasonable alternative was available,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 The Fed's radical programs to provide financial companies with loans and buy mounds of debt that companies rely on for short-terming financing of payrolls and supplies have eased some credit stresses, he said, as have efforts to bolster consumer lending and the mutual funds.
 Such efforts by the Fed, along with central banks in other countries, have ''significantly reduced funding pressures for financial institutions, helped to reduce rates in bank funding markets and increase overall financial stability,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 Getting banks to increase lending to customers is a crucial part of any economic turnaround. The Fed chief said he expected to see a ''gradual resumption of sustainable economic growth,'' but he did not say when.
 Mr. Bernanke also defended the Fed's decisions to revive the economy by plowing trillions of dollars into efforts to stabilize the banking system and to lower interest rates. Its program to buy mortgage-backed securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has helped drive down the rate on 30-year mortgages to record lows.
 ''These are extraordinary challenging times for our financial system and our economy,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''I am confident that we can meet these challenges, not least because I have great confidence in the underlying strengths of the American economy.''
 To brace the economy, the Fed has slashed a key interest rate to a record low of near zero. The central bank has turned to unconventional tools -- like its recent decision to start buying government debt -- to pull down interest rates on a range of consumer loans. The goal is to entice Americans to go out and spend again, which would help lift the economy out of recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); INSURANCE (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (77%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



172 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3151 words

HEADLINE: REMADE IN AMERICA; Deportation Furor Catches Texas Mayor in Middle

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
IRVING, Tex. -- Just after sunrise one morning last summer, as his two sons hurried out the door to school, Oscar Urbina might have presented a portrait of domestic stability in this Dallas suburb, a 35-year-old man with a nice home, a thriving family and a steady contracting job.
But a few weeks earlier, after buying a Dodge Ram truck at a local dealership, he had been summoned back to deal with some paperwork problems. And shortly after he arrived, so did the police, who arrested him on charges of using a false Social Security number.
Mr. Urbina does not deny it; he has been living illegally in the Dallas area since coming to the country from Mexico in 1993. But the turn of events stunned him in a once-welcoming place where people had never paid much attention to Social Security numbers. 
If the arrest had come earlier, it might have had little effect on his life. But two years ago, Irving made a decision, championed by its first-term mayor, Herbert A. Gears, to conduct immigration checks on everyone booked into the local jail. So Mr. Urbina was automatically referred to the federal authorities and now faces possible deportation, becoming one of more than 4,000 illegal immigrants here who have ended up in similar circumstances.
As battles over illegal immigration rage around the country, Irving's crackdown is not unusual in itself. What makes it striking is that it happened with the blessing of a mayor like Mr. Gears, an immigrant-friendly Democrat with deep political ties to the city's Hispanic leaders, a man who likes to preach that adapting to immigration -- especially in a city like his, now almost half-Hispanic -- is not a burden but an opportunity, or as he says, it's ''not a have-to, it's a get-to.''
But as a wave of sentiment against illegal immigration built around Dallas and the nation, Mr. Gears came to realize that his city would be unable to remain on the sidelines -- and that his own political future would depend on how he navigated newly treacherous terrain.
Irving is one of a growing number of cities across America where immigration control, a federal prerogative, is reshaping politics at the other end of the spectrum, the local level, in the absence of a national policy overhaul. To watch its experiment play out over the better part of the past year in City Hall and in its residents' lives is to see how difficult political moderation has become in the debate over what to do with the country's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.
Irving's jail program was started by the city's police chief as an experiment with federal immigration officials. But Mr. Gears saw in it a kind of release valve for the political pressure building around him, which had been energized by much more aggressive measures to force out illegal immigrants in Farmers Branch, a smaller suburb next door.
''I let my instincts rule the moment in that instance,'' he said. ''What weighed heavily in my thoughts is that if we didn't do something, a lot more immigrants were going to be hurt.''
''And now,'' Mr. Gears added ruefully, ''I'm the hero of every redneck in America.''
Nationally, most of the attention in the immigration fight has centered on smaller cities that have taken a hard line on illegal immigration, like Farmers Branch and Hazleton, Pa., or on cities that have moved to protect illegal immigrants, like San Francisco and New Haven.
Irving is one of the places with a growing percentage of illegal immigrants that has tried to take -- Mr. Gears's critics say has stumbled upon -- a much less explored middle road.
As a first-ring suburb whose non-Hispanic white population has slipped from the majority in the last few years, Irving describes itself as a multicultural community. Under Mr. Gears, it recently opened a hospital clinic that caters to low-income patients, many of them Hispanic, and gave $100,000 to support its fledgling Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.
But even as it was doing so, its policy on immigration checks prompted the Mexican consul in Dallas to issue an unusual warning to Mexican immigrants to stay clear of Irving. And businesses both Hispanic-owned and not, including Wal-Mart, began howling to the mayor that fear was driving away Hispanic customers.
Mr. Gears, 46, is a big, gregarious, politically agile Texan who won re-election last May against an opponent whose campaign promised much tougher immigration measures. The mayor describes the rise of such sentiment around him as disturbing, a manifestation of ''domestic extremism,'' and he derides its adherents as ''the crankies.''
''We defeated the crankies, and no one thought we could,'' Mr. Gears said of his re-election. ''We've defined what our responsibility is, and that's only to allow the federal government to do its job. It's not our responsibility to evaluate it or assess whether it's good or not.''
Mr. Gears happened to be making these points in a booth at his favorite local bar, where he was being served by his favorite waitress, a friendly mother of five -- in the country illegally -- whom he has known for years and tips lavishly to help her make ends meet.
He acknowledges that Irving's policy, whose chief goal is to get rid of dangerous criminals who are in the country illegally, has resulted in ''casualties,'' with many people deported as a result of lesser, nonviolent offenses like driving without a license or insurance.
The police chief, Larry Boyd, said he believed that the city's enviable crime rate (last year was its lowest on record) is at least partly due to the deportation program. ''You will never hear me blaming Irving's crime problems on illegal immigration,'' Chief Boyd said. But he added that the program ''keeps some criminals off of Irving's streets longer and potentially keeps them off of Irving's streets for good.''
The city's political straddle on immigration has angered and confounded Mr. Gears's opponents. Critics to the right accuse him of opportunism and of shirking his duty to legal residents. Advocates for the immigrants accuse him essentially of undercutting them.
But Mr. Gears's position is one he seems to struggle every day to defend, said Carlos Quintanilla, a vocal advocate who, like many other Hispanic leaders, initially supported the jail program but now deplores it.
''I call Herb the most tormented man in America,'' Mr. Quintanilla said.
The Hard-liners
Lucia Rottenberg, an Irving resident for almost 40 years, was upset in June 2007 when she stood at a City Council meeting in the amphitheater-like chambers at City Hall. Citing fears of crime, disease and economic harm to her city, Ms. Rottenberg called for tougher measures against illegal immigrants and bragged that her husband used his vacation time to volunteer with the Texas Minutemen, a contentious civilian group that tries to keep people from crossing the border illegally.
As she turned to leave the lectern, Mr. Gears leaned into his microphone and stopped her.
''I need to clear something up, because I was told something that was disturbing,'' he said. ''Were you at a meeting, a club meeting, where applause was given to the comment that anyone who comes over the border should be shot?''
Ms. Rottenberg, who has contributed to one of Mr. Gears's campaigns and whom Mr. Gears said he considers a friend, confirmed she was at the meeting. ''I don't remember if there was applause or not,'' she said, taken aback.
''Did you make that remark?'' Mr. Gears asked.
''Yes, I did,'' she admitted, her voice rising. ''And my frustration is this -- ''
Mr. Gears cut her short: ''You don't have to explain it to me. I understand.''
It was at that Council session that the city adopted the federal cooperation program for residency checks inside the jail. It was also a public turning point in the political reorientation of Mr. Gears, who spoke volubly, sometimes irascibly, in defense of the checks while trying to shame those he saw as using immigration to divide the city further.
''I viewed it as something that would be painful to some, and so that was distasteful to me,'' Mr. Gears said later about the jail policy. ''But we were in a battle here on this issue.''
Like many Texas cities its size, Irving was mostly white a generation ago, a farming town turned sprawling suburb as middle-class families flocked to its affordable neighborhoods.
In 1970, when the city's population hit 100,000, the Census estimated that less than 5 percent was Hispanic. By 1990 the percentage had tripled, during the next decade it doubled, and it is now thought to be 45 percent or higher. In the fall of 2008, the last time a count was taken, 70 percent of the students enrolled in kindergarten through fifth grade in Irving's schools were Hispanic.
While no one knows exactly how much of that increase was a result of illegal immigration, Irving was one of several Dallas suburbs that experienced a huge influx of illegal workers as part of the wave that has tripled the nation's illegal population since 1996. Officials estimate that more than 20 percent of Irving's 200,000 residents may be in the country illegally.
A drive down North Belt Line Road, one of the city's commercial spines, takes a visitor past a big Kroger grocery store whose next-door neighbor is a La Michoacana Meat Market almost its equal in size. Both stores sit not far from dozens of Hispanic restaurants, laundries, stores, auto-repair garages and curanderas, or psychics' shops, scattered throughout the city's south side.
Some white, longtime Irving residents say illegal immigration has done much more to erode than bolster the city's older shopping strips and neighborhoods, its image and its property values. They complain to Mr. Gears about white flight from the Irving Mall and about well-kept older residential blocks marred by ''patron houses,'' overcrowded single-family homes, clustered with cars, used as bunkhouses for illegal workers.
Beth Van Duyne, a city councilwoman who advocates tougher immigration policies and has battled Mr. Gears, likes to show visitors a favorite exhibit in her case, a hulking big-box store that was once a Montgomery Ward. It is now called Irving Bazaar, a battered flea-market-like assortment of merchants with handmade window advertisements in Spanish for wrestling matches and cheap jewelry.
''People hate it,'' Ms. Van Duyne said. ''It's just not a good thing to have in your city.''
Such discontent had been rising for years, though as recently as 2005, when Mr. Gears was elected to his first term, it remained well below the political surface. Sue Richardson, the vice president of the Greater Irving Republican Club and probably Mr. Gears's most persistent opponent, said she believed that it had finally risen into view because many people realized Irving was in the midst of a ''silent invasion'' from Mexico.
''The people who come here illegally across the border are not educated people,'' Ms. Richardson said. ''They don't have any culture or any respect for ours.''
A Political Career
Arriving one fall morning at a regular kaffeeklatsch of longtime residents -- a mostly white group that once held court in a diner but, since it closed, has moved to a Mexican restaurant -- Mr. Gears made his way around the table shaking hands and telling jokes. ''This is where I cut my teeth,'' he said. ''These are the people who really run the place.''
He looks and often plays the part of a good old boy, a flamboyant dresser with flashy gold-rimmed eyeglasses and rings and cufflinks embossed with pictures of Elizabeth Taylor, who reminds him of his mother when she was young. Mr. Gears's stamina and self-confidence as a talker can evoke a combination of used-car salesman and Southern Baptist preacher, though his fondness for vodka, Marlboro reds and easygoing profanity might disqualify him from the pulpit.
''You're going to think I'm making this up, but I was known as Bubba when I was young,'' he said. ''Now when I go back to the country they call me Mayor Bubba.''
Mr. Gears makes a comfortable living running a financial consulting firm with his wife. But he owes his political career to the poor and the working class, both Hispanic and not. A pivotal issue in his first City Council campaign (the contests are nonpartisan, though Mr. Gears describes himself as a conservative Democrat) was his support for beleaguered mobile home residents, and the ''trailer-house vote,'' as he likes to call it, made the difference.
He could readily identify with those voters. He was born in East Texas to a deeply troubled mother who raised him and his two sisters mostly by herself while wrestling with poverty and drug addiction; she committed suicide at 63.
Mr. Gears clearly relishes the political life and thrives in it. He raised almost $100,000 in contributions in last year's mayoral race, a huge sum for such suburban contests. But he says he has no higher political aspirations than perhaps to serve another term or two as mayor. He jokes that ''the Democrats wouldn't have me -- especially now -- and I wouldn't have the Republicans.'' Still, he counts among his backers powerful and wealthy real-estate developers, and his political options remain open.
In public, Mr. Gears reveals few hints of the internal turmoil that friends describe. His oldest Hispanic friends say they understand why he supports the jail policy but add that the position has always sat uncomfortably on the shoulders of a man who has long worked for Hispanic causes, including serving as president of a local nonprofit group that helps immigrants.
''I think the world of Herb,'' said Platon Lerma, who is considered the grandfather of Irving's Hispanic activists. But Mr. Lerma, 82, said he believed that the immigration checks had betrayed the mayor's ideals.
''To me the program itself is a crime, in human terms,'' he said. ''We're breaking up families. We're not doing right in the eyes of God.''
But in the next breath he added that Mr. Gears had simply chosen ''the best of several evils.'' Hispanic residents of Irving do not vote in large numbers, Mr. Lerma explained, and it had become apparent that too many other voters were clamoring for immigration change.
If the election last year had gone to Mr. Gears's closest opponent, a lawyer, Roland Jeter -- who had warned that Irving was becoming a ''sanctuary city'' for illegal immigrants -- it would have almost certainly sent the city down a more stringent path.
In his campaign, Mr. Jeter advocated joining a federal program that deputizes police officers as immigration agents. The program has resulted in large numbers of deportations in other cities, and has sometimes led them to initiate other aggressive measures to round up illegal immigrants.
Still, even the more passive approach taken by Irving soon became unpopular among Hispanics. In 2006, before the systematic jail checks began, local police officers were handing about 300 people a year to the federal government for immigration reasons. By the summer of 2007, as many as 300 people a month were entering immigration proceedings, and Mr. Quintanilla, the Hispanic advocate who only three months earlier had spoken in support of the policy at the City Council hearing, helped organize protests against it.
Mr. Gears soon found himself defending the approach on national television while trying to deflect blame toward those he believes are responsible for the problem.
''The complaint that people have with this program,'' he said on CNN, ''should be directed at the federal government.''
Restive Allies
Now, nearly a year after his re-election, Mr. Gears is still vilified by his conservative opponents while also facing a simmering rebellion from Mr. Quintanilla and other Hispanic leaders, who say the jail policy has unnecessarily damaged the lives of people who have had no serious run-ins with the law.
As of early March, of the 4,074 people whose arrest led to their being handed over to immigration officials, 129 had been charged with violent crimes or illegal possession of weapons, and 714 with other types of serious felonies. In addition, 579 had been charged with driving while intoxicated. The other 2,625 had been arrested for lesser offenses; the largest categories were public intoxication and not having a driver's license or insurance.
If he were in charge of changing federal policy, Mr. Gears said, he would find a way to allow many illegal immigrants to move toward citizenship. It is a goal that was sought by President George W. Bush and now, in a similar plan, by President Obama.
For now, Mr. Gears is still smiling, still talking and still trying to be the mayor of all of Irving's inhabitants, even those he knows might soon be gone, like Mr. Urbina, the illegal immigrant who now awaits a deportation hearing.
Not long before Mr. Urbina's arrest, the mayor tossed out the first pitch at the opening of a Pony Baseball World Series for 9- and 10-year-olds, who had come to town from places as far away as Puerto Rico and Mexico. The event felt like a United Nations game, with national flags and food and blaring music. ''Isn't this great?'' Mr. Gears said. ''This is what Irving's all about.''
Using his scant Spanish to throw around the occasional greeting, the mayor took his place on the field in his French-cuffed shirt, sweating alongside players from one of Irving's teams, their names spelled out on the backs of their jerseys: Gomez, Conaway, Aleman, Shastid, Riker, Flores, Herrin, Childress, Ehrke, Rodriguez.
As the strains of the Puerto Rican anthem faded from the loudspeakers, Mr. Gears took the mound and wound up. His pitch was low, but the catcher scooped it up from the dirt, and the mayor walked off to generous applause.
''Fighting him is kind of like fighting against your brother,'' Mr. Quintanilla said of his friend the mayor. ''But you put your guard down, and the first thing you know you're being hit in the face.''
Remade in America Part IV: The United States has experienced the greatest surge in immigration since the early 20th century, with one in five residents now a recent immigrant or a close relative of one. Today, in the fourth part of a series of weekly articles on how the latest wave of immigrants are affecting American institutions, The New York Times looks at politics in a Texas city where illegal immigrants have become a big issue. Future articles will examine businesses, social services and families.
Correction: April 12, 2009, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about a crackdown on illegal immigrants in Irving, Tex., referred incorrectly to a big-box store known as Irving Bazaar, which houses a flea-market-like assortment of merchants who cater to the immigrants. It was once a Montgomery Ward, not a Wal-Mart. And a map with the article mislabeled one of the states whose law enforcement officers cooperate with federal authorities by arresting immigration law violators. It is Alabama, not Mississippi.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Herbert A. Gears of Irving, Tex., left, championed a policy seen as a middle way on immigration. Oscar Urbina, like many other illegal residents, faces a deportation hearing as a result.
At a meeting in February, advocates urged Hispanic residents of Irving to complain to the Justice Department.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18)
Carlos Quintanilla initially favored Irving's immigration checks but reversed his stance. Beth Van Duyne, a city councilwoman, wants tougher policies.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A19) CHART: Polarized Responses to Immigration Wave: State and local authorities have responded in different ways to the influx of Hispanic immigrants. Some law enforcement agencies have joined Immigration and Customs Enforcement (I.C.E.) in identifying and arresting immigration law violators. Others have been expressly forbidden from enforcing immigration laws.(Sources: Current Population Survey
National Center for Education Statistics
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
 National Immigration Law Center)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); MAYORS (87%); CITIES (87%); PRISONS (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL IMMIGRATION LAW CENTER (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



173 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Major League Hopes Pinned on the Minors

BYLINE: By LORI ROTENBERK

 BODY:
ZION, Ill. -- Cars traveling along Route 173 jerk to a halt when the gaudy sign in front of Roger's Repair Service shop comes into view. Bold black letters spell out ''Welcome Kevin Costner,'' along with a zany name that changes on a whim.
One day it is ''Welcome Kevin Costner and the Zion Zealots,'' the next, ''Welcome Kevin Costner and the Zion Zeppelins'' -- or whatever strikes the fancy of the shop's owner, Roger Whitmore. 
Mr. Whitmore, along with what often seems like all of Zion's 23,677 residents, is almost giddy at the thought of naming the city's new minor league baseball team of which Mr. Costner, the actor, is part owner. And it is hard to find anyone who is not hoping that the team will lead to an economic revival of this city 40 miles north of Chicago on the Wisconsin border.
Ground-breaking on a $15 million, 5,000-seat stadium is scheduled for early May -- perhaps the most anticipated event since the city, founded by a faith healer, voted to repeal its self-imposed Prohibition in 2005. The stadium is part of a 30-acre city-owned complex set to open in May next year. It will include a banquet center, a field for children with disabilities and a waterslide.
The complex is expected to create 50 sorely needed full-time jobs and 267 seasonal jobs in Zion, where the Illinois Department of Employment Security reported an unemployment rate of 12.4 percent in February.
Officials estimate that the complex will add $750,000 a year in revenue to the municipal treasury from baseball and other events. More important, the officials say, the stadium will draw tourists and ancillary businesses, creating employment opportunities that the city sees as an answer to its prayers.
Zion's history as a dry town founded on strict religious principles has been blamed for inhibiting its economic growth.
Many in Zion go so far as to suggest that divine intervention was responsible for Mr. Costner's involvement as a primary investor in Grand Slam Sports and Entertainmentof Deerfield, the company that owns the Northern League team assigned here.
''Sometimes God just smiles,'' said Delaine Rogers, a lifelong resident who is the city's economic development director.
Zion is not the first community to pin its economic hopes on minor league baseball or stadium construction, and the results elsewhere have been mixed. In Gary, Ind., the Southshore Railcatshave won the Northern League championship two of the last four seasons, bringing people back to the city's long-blighted downtown. But in Wichita, Kan., a AA baseball team moved to Arkansas two years ago after residents failed to embrace it.
Sports authorities and Major League Baseball teams are pressing local governments across the country in the hope of receiving federal stimulus money for stadium projects. But stimulus money is not being used to build the Zion stadium, said Ms. Rogers and Mayor Lane Harrison. The city owned the stadium land, and investors include some local banks.
Any government financing is likely to be included in a capital bill, which is how the state legislature finances infrastructure projects.
Rich Ehrenreich, who owns the Schaumburg Flyers, another minor league team in a Chicago suburb, is the managing partner of Grand Slam.
Mr. Costner, who has starred in baseball movies that include ''Bull Durham,'' ''Field of Dreams'' and ''For Love of the Game,'' said he had long nourished a dream of owning a baseball team and expressed thanks to the people of Zion ''for this opportunity to be part of their community.''
''I've been approached several times about various projects,'' Mr. Costner said in an e-mail interview, ''but this group really seems to have the right idea in mind: creating jobs and bringing baseball to a community that needs something positive.''
He added: ''This is a better way for me to be involved in baseball, rather than as a washed-up catcher,'' a reference to the character he played in ''Bull Durham.''
To date, the stadium's only opposition has come from a blogger who suggested that the owners should persuade the Chicago Cubs to move there ''because they play like a minor league team anyway.''
Zion was founded in the early 1900s by John Alexander Dowie, who espoused the principles of religious tolerance, racial equality, family, self-sufficiency and worship. Streets here carry biblical names -- Elijah, Nazareth, Bethel -- and a Bible sits among the newspapers left at the It's All Good coffeehouse, a name derived from Romans 8:28.
The city's ban on alcohol, shopping centers and theaters limited Zion's economic options. Left with few choices, the city allowed the construction of a nuclear power plant, which opened in 1973 and brought 900 jobs. Next came several landfills.
But the power plant closed in 1999 after it could not meet new federal safety regulations without costly renovations. Unemployment rose and revenues sagged. Zion lost $17 million in real estate taxes when the plant's value dropped to $10 million, from $240 million. The schools were hit hard by the falling revenues, and Ms. Rogers, then a professor of French and medieval literature at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, said she knew that if the education system faltered, no hope would remain.
She quit her job, ran for the elective office of economic development director and wondered whether the city could change.
Turns out it could.
Today, Zion has a Wal-Mart and is building an industrial park near the stadium site.
When Mr. Costner, Mr. Ehrenreich and others from Grand Slam came calling, the city went wild.
No longer would one of the more exciting forms of local entertainment consist of trying to spot the Homeland Security Department sharpshooter posted atop the nuclear plant to guard the radioactive fuel stored inside.
A formal naming contest for the team begins on Wednesday, and ticket sales for the 2010 season are to follow the next week. Tickets are to cost $5 to $15, with a discount for groups.
Anyone visiting Zion these days may be hard-pressed to find a conversation that does not turn to baseball. ''I was at a Chamber of Commerce function recently,'' said Mr. Whitmore, the auto repair shop owner, ''and as soon as the stadium was mentioned, the crowd broke out in an ovation and cheered.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A business sign in Zion, Ill., heralds a new baseball team, of which Kevin Costner is part owner.
 Roger Whitmore, the auto shop owner, near the site where a stadium will be built for the team.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); SEASONAL WORKERS (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); GARY, IN, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



174 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: April 5, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
NATO OFFERS FEW NEW TROOPS FOR AFGHANISTAN, DESPITE APPEAL
With protesters raging outside, NATO leaders agreed to provide up to 5,000 new troops for Afghanistan. The agreement fell short of President Obama's call for a greater European commitment. At the meeting, he emphasized a narrowed war mission: routing Al Qaeda, even above instilling Western democracy. PAGE 6
Memo From Cairo
Thirty Years After Promised Peace 
On the 30-year anniversary of Egypt's peace treaty with Israel, many Egyptians viewed the treaty as the start of Egypt's decline and diplomatic impotence. PAGE 6
ISRAELI NONPROFITS HURT BY MADOFF
The collapse of Bernard L. Madoff's $65 billion Ponzi scheme has hurt a number of Israeli social service groups, forcing investment strategies to be reassessed. PAGE 13
NATIONAL
A PUSH FOR MARRIAGE RIGHTS
Across New England
The Iowa Supreme Court's approval of same-sex marriage gave advocates a first victory in the nation's heartland. But New England remains the nucleus of the same-sex marriage movement, with a campaign under way to extend marriage rights to gay men and lesbians in all six of the region's states by 2012. PAGE 13
STIMULUS WATCHDOG IN CALIFORNIA
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger appointed an inspector general to act as watchdog over the estimated $50 billion in federal stimulus money to be disbursed in California. Mr. Schwarzenegger is the first state leader to create such a position. PAGE 13
Congressional Memo
Budget to Test Inertia in Congress
The ambitious policy agenda encapsulated in the advancing federal budget will test whether Congress can shake the rust from its legislative machinery and overcome the powerful inertia that has gripped it in recent years. PAGE 16
WASHINGTON SECRECY DIES HARD
In trying to fullfill an ambitious pledge to make government more transparent, President Obama has bumped up against technological hurdles, privacy concerns and an entrenched culture of secrecy that flourished for decades in Washington and culminated under his predecessor, President George W. Bush. PAGE 16
5 Children Killed in Washington State 22
NEW YORK
AS NEW YORK REGENTS CHANCELLOR,
Tisch Presses Education Agenda
As chancellor of the Board of Regents, Merryl H. Tisch relies on her background and social contacts to further the cause of education in the state. The 16-member board is at a critical moment, as the Obama administration brings a new philosophy toward public education and the stimulus package yields new sources of revenue. PAGE 24
SPOILS OF VICTORY IN ALBANY
Democrats, who control both chambers of the State Legislature, will take the largest share of $170 million in legislative earmarks allocated in this year's budget. PAGE 27
PRAYING IN THE DARK WHERE 13 DIED
In dark corners throughout Binghamton's American Civic Association, where a gunman killed 13 people, the immigrants studying how to be Americans, practicing how to speak American, spent Friday morning praying for help, all the while certain their lives were about to end. PAGE A28
OBITUARIES
ROBERT DELFORD BROWN, 78
A painter, sculptor, performance artist and avant-garde philosopher, he was a central figure in the anarchic New York art scene of the early 1960s, instigating events-as-art known as ''happenings.'' PAGE 29
Sports
TWO POWERHOUSE RIVALS
At the Same University
Jim Calhoun, left, versus Geno Auriemma, right, has been among the rarest of intercollegiate role reversals: a men's college basketball program deservedly held to a standard established by women. The two UConn coaches are not the friendliest of rivals, but for many reasons, it may be better to be Geno than Jim. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE 2
QUESTIONS AFTER RULING ON AGENTS
An Ohio judge's decision to declare illegal a portion of the N.C.A.A.'s longstanding ban on agents is generating uncertainty among students, universities and experts in sports law. The decision leaves many questions unanswered, including whether college baseball players could be permitted to hire lawyers for negotiations for June's amateur draft. PAGE 4
Editorial
UNEMPLOYMENT RISING
For much of last week, it was possible to think that the economy was looking up. Various indicators, though weak, were not as bad as expected. On Friday, reality bit back with the news that the unemployment rate spiked in March, to 8.5 percent, a 25-year high. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
DID THEY MISS THE MEMO?
On his second day in office, President Obama repudiated George W. Bush's obsessive and destructive secrecy. Yet last week, the Justice Department asked for another delay in releasing legal opinions that provided a legal pretext for interrogations that ranged from merely illegal to outright torture. The Obama team should agree to release those memos in full. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
For all the American and international efforts to fight global poverty, one thing is clear: They won't get far as long as impoverished women in developing countries continue giving birth to more children than they can feed. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
FRANK RICH
Even among pitchfork-bearing populists, there was scant satisfaction in the firing of Rick Wagoner. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The emergency economic policies that President Obama has put in place represent a huge bet that the administration can confine this economic crisis to a really nasty recession. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
DID THE OBAMA MAGIC TRAVEL WELL?
How did the president's visit to Europe go? In a series of Op-Ed articles, three European writers -- A. A. Gill, Amelie Nothomb and Christoph Peters -- offer their pointed assessments. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
This Weekend
Magazine Obama's Rabbi
Like his cousins, Michelle and Barack Obama, Capers Funnye, right, the head of one of the country's largest black synagogues, wants to reach across the aisle -- in his case, to white Jews. PAGE 34
Arts & Leisure
Welcome Back,
Haunted Firehouse
In Season 5 of ''Rescue Me,'' on FX, the specter of 9/11 becomes a major character once again, when a French journalist starts interviewing firefighters from Ladder 62 about their experiences for a commemorative book. And the plot unfolds with the show's signature blend of bleak comedy, scatological raunch, rage, booze and Catholic guilt PAGE 1
Travel
In France,
Canoeing Into Prehistory
In the Dordogne, the rivers have invited exploration and settlement since the days of the Neanderthals. Along the Vezere river in Aquitaine in southwestern France are hundreds of caves and overhanging rock shelters. Within them are the prehistoric creations for which the area is known: paintings and engravings of bison, reindeer and other animals made by people who lived 10,000 to 45,000 years ago.
PAGE 1
Sunday Styles
A Touch-Screen Career Path
Is there a good way to nail down a steady income? In this economy? Try writing a successful program for the iPhone. There are now more than 25,000 programs, or applications, in the iPhone App Store, many of them written by people whose modern Horatio Alger dreams revolve around a SIM card. PAGE 1
Sunday Business
Pay Dwindles With Profits
Big corporations, buffeted by widespread economic pain and heightened scrutiny of lush compensation packages, appear to be paying attention to investors angered by the controversial bonus payouts at the American International Group. Executive compensation for the highest-paid chief executives at public companies fell in 2008, the first such downturn in five years. PAGE 1
Automobiles
Muscle Car Without the Men
BMW's redesigned Z4 sports car, which will be displayed at the New York auto show, seems to have matured from a quirky toy to an adult sports car. While the new Z4 seems handsome, confident and quite masculine with a retractable hardtop, it was designed by two German women. PAGE 1

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg. A2
 pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); PONZI SCHEMES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); AL-QAEDA (58%); IOWA SUPREME COURT (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BERNARD MADOFF (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EGYPT (93%); ISRAEL (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



175 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; DINING MAPLEWOOD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Where Dinner's So Good, No One Misses Dessert

BYLINE: By KARLA COOK

 BODY:
SPRING was in the air and the late afternoon sun was slanting across the sky as we headed for a quiet early Saturday dinner at Village Trattoria. Unfortunately for us, half of Maplewood seemed to have had the same idea.
 A few coat-clad diners had snagged the outdoor tables, and there was a crush in the doorway. Heading inside, we wedged ourselves onto the lone bench of the kitchen area to wait, to absorb the buoyant mood, to breathe aromas of garlic, tomato and homemade bread, and to watch. 
The room layout dictates inefficiency; the cooler door opens in front of the bench we were sitting on, and the takeout counter is at the back of the room, so there's constant choreography. People waiting for tables squeeze together as close as they dare to allow take-out customers a thoroughfare, then flow back into the space until another customer begins the excuse-me litany. 
 Then, there was drama: Like an acrobat, a server inched through the crowd with an impossibly high stack of pizza-ready boxes, then, as a momentary silence descended on the crowd, flawlessly slid them into a waiting spot on top of the counter. Clearly, this had been done before: There was a space of less than one box's height between the top box and the ceiling.
 Just as I was settling in to watch the bottom box being pulled out, we were called to our table, and I was quickly distracted by hot, crusty rolls made from pizza crust dough.
 Angelo Vayas and his wife, Mary, opened their 52-seat restaurant 17 years ago and have since opened two more, in Summit and South Orange. In a telephone interview Mr. Vayas credited the food and a loyal customer base for allowing the restaurant to escape the effects of the economic downturn. 
 The menu is a straightforward laminated affair that showcases the restaurant's pizzeria origins. One page is given over to pizzas, both classic (the plain cheese and the tomato-basil were good standards), and not (a Tex-Mex with Monterey jack, green peppers, hot peppers and tomatoes). 
 A wall-mounted blackboard holds specials of the day, and for satisfying, home-style meals, this is the place to turn. A starter one night was a light yet well-flavored cream of asparagus soup; on another, there was a portobello that had been marinated in balsamic vinaigrette and sauteed. One night, on a tip from a friend, we asked for an appetizer that wasn't listed -- a platter of garlicky sauteed artichoke hearts -- and they were delicious. 
 From the menu, the appetizer of fried calamari with house-made marinara sauce was a table favorite, as was the antipasto with its juicy slabs of roasted red peppers and artichokes, translucent slices of ruby-red prosciutto and wedges of provolone. The Greek salad was ordinary except for the chubby stuffed grape leaves, which seemed to contain the essence of summer. A dish of sauteed broccoli rabe, listed under the appetizers, was tender-crisp and almost sweet; it disappeared within moments of its arrival.
 Main courses come with a house salad and the aforementioned house-made rolls. Blackboard favorites were a light shrimp ravioli in a summery tomato-basil sauce, a balanced flounder piccata and a slightly overbroiled chunk of mahi-mahi over arugula, wilted by a hot sauteed shrimp sauce dotted with capers and far too many cloves of garlic. 
 Pasta primavera, a special one night, was a standout, with its al dente strands around bright green broccoli florets, bits of sun-dried tomatoes and fresh spinach, all lightly dressed in garlic-imbued olive oil. In another blackboard special, gnocchi were surprisingly light, but the Alfredo sauce overwhelmed delicate leaves of spinach. Pasta marinara was a fine basic, but spinach manicotti was unremarkable, as was another pasta-based ''Mediterranean'' special that included shrimp and feta and seemed more like a kitchen-sink special than something created with forethought.
 And desserts? There are none -- ''there's no time for desserts,'' Mr. Vayas said. The restaurant has been thriving without them for a long time, he said, ''so I don't want to change it.''
 Village Trattoria
 2 Inwood Place
 Maplewood
 (973) 761-7711
 villagetrattoria.com
 GOOD 
 THE SPACE Two utilitarian storefronts, one for waiting and takeout, and the other for dining. Complete wheelchair access.
 THE CROWD Noisy and very casual; friendly, efficient servers; many children. 
 THE BAR No liquor license; bring your own.
 THE BILL Pasta and main dishes, $7 to $16, with specials up to $20. All major credit cards accepted.
 WHAT WE LIKE Sauteed artichoke hearts, sauteed portobello, sauteed broccoli rabe, fried calamari, antipasto, pasta with marinara, mahi-mahi over arugula, flounder piccata, shrimp ravioli in tomato-basil sauce.
 IF YOU GO Lunch, Monday to Saturday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sunday, noon to 4 p.m. Dinner, 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 4 p.m. to 11 p.m. Friday and Saturday. No reservations accepted. Street parking. 
 Reviewed April 5, 2009 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MEDITERRANEAN PLEASURES Tables are filled at Village Trattoria in Maplewood, which has a following for its pizzas and homey, well-priced dishes.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



176 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Pleas Amid the Gunfire, To Police and to Heaven

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Liz Robbins contributed reporting from New York and Jack Styczynski contributed research.

DATELINE: BINGHAMTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In a storage room filled with tables used at parties to celebrate passage of citizenship exams, 14 immigrants huddled around a refrigerator in the corner, quietly counting off so their teacher could tell the police how many were hiding there. No. 4, Con Thi Thach, a mother of seven from Vietnam, kept thinking to herself, ''Don't let me die.''
 In the basement boiler room, five men guarded the two doors as Katherine Gruss, their English teacher, burned through five cellphone batteries talking to a 911 dispatcher. ''We didn't realize the extent of it,'' Ms. Gruss said of the massacre on the floor above them. ''We just thought it was one person, maybe two people.''
 In a closet-size alcove off a back staircase, Marie Jourdain lay on her stomach next to three people, silently praying as she listened to the gunman pacing and nervously talking to himself. ''I listened to him walking and talk, talk, talk,'' said Ms. Jourdain, a 47-year-old hospital housekeeper from Haiti. ''If he see the stairs, he come in, because there's no door where I'm in.'' 
 The immigrant students hiding in corners of the blond-brick building here Friday morning were in a sense Americans-in-progress, studying how to be Americans, practicing how to speak American (Ms. Thach's class was guessing at the meaning of ''in the black'' when the gunfire erupted). Instead, they learned a darker American lesson, one of sudden, inexplicable violence, when the gunman, Jiverly Wong, an immigrant like them who until weeks earlier had also taken English classes at the American Civic Association, burst in with two handguns.
 Mr. Wong, who the police and acquaintances said had been distraught over his unemployment and his inability to speak English, killed 13 students and employees of the association and wounded 4 others before taking his own life. His motive remained unclear.
 Binghamton's American Civic Association was founded by 11 immigrants in 1939. It is a multilingual hub in largely rural Broome County, providing immigration services, English instruction, citizenship classes, ethnic celebrations and refugee resettlement.
 In decades past, Binghamton and the surrounding area was built in large part by the immigrant labor of Irish, Italians, Polish and others drawn by the promise of jobs at companies like the Endicott-Johnson shoe company. Though many of those jobs have disappeared, and the county's population is now only 5.8 percent foreign-born, the association has continued to thrive. It often holds Irish dancing exhibitions. The block letters on the marquee outside on the sidewalk on Friday advertised an Italian luncheon on April 14. Local lawyers called the center when they needed translators. 
 The Binghamton police said on Saturday that they had been contacted by nine foreign countries and two consulates. Those huddled Friday morning in corners of the building were as diverse as any block in Queens: Russians, Iraqis, Georgians, Vietnamese, Serbs, Cubans, Kurds. 
 Ms. Jourdain's English had already improved, though she had been studying at the association for just a few weeks. On the coffee table of her small apartment in a public housing project, she keeps a proud possession: her 10-year-old son's framed certificate of perfect attendance from Benjamin Franklin Elementary School. 
 Ms. Thach, 53, failed her first citizenship test, in 2004, and has been taking classes at the association five days a week ever since, carrying the ''Daughters of the American Revolution Manual for Citizenship'' in her purse. On Friday, she woke up, took her pills and rushed to catch the bus, but still arrived late for her 10 a.m. English class.
 While Ms. Thach and her classmates guessed at the meaning of ''in the black'' -- some thought it might relate to the black market, others were puzzled why a color would have any other meaning -- Ms. Gruss led her introductory English class of 12 in a lesson on pronouns. 
 Ms. Gruss, 60, a retired elementary school teacher, had worked at the civic association for one year, and her 9 a.m. class shared space in the basement with another class. ''It's a very safe place,'' she said of the association. ''They all love to come there. We have weddings, dinners, lunches.'' 
 The glass front doors opened around 10:30 a.m., and Mr. Wong, dressed in a green jacket, stepped inside, shooting two receptionists without uttering a word, the police said. 
 Ms. Thach re-enacted what she heard in a single breath: ''Pop, pop, pop.''
 In an instant, she said, the class bolted through a door in the back of the room to the storage area. One student locked the door and they all crowded tightly together, holding their knees to their chests. When the teacher, Megan Lollie, pulled out her cellphone, a student tried to stop her. ''Don't turn on the light! They might see!'' Ms. Thach recalled the student saying.
 The teacher kept the phone close to her chest as she dialed 911, whispering into it. ''Come help us!'' Ms. Thach recounted. When the dispatcher asked how many people were with her, they took turns whispering their numbers as if in a game of telephone until they totaled 14. ''Help me,'' Ms. Thach silently prayed.
 Ms. Gruss, midway through the pronoun lesson, said she first thought the pops were fireworks, or maybe somebody hammering loudly above. Soon she was guiding 24 students from the two basement classes into a boiler room. In the chaos, four students went upstairs and tried to escape through a back door, only to find it barricaded by Mr. Wong's car. They ran downstairs and hid behind a mattress, Ms. Gruss said.
 The doors in the boiler room had no locks, so five men -- including two brothers from Uzbekistan and a Russian -- volunteered to stand guard. Ms. Gruss borrowed a student's cellphone to dial 911, speaking loudly enough to make her voice heard over the grumbling boilers. 
 Nobody in the room knew exactly what had happened on the floor above. One student received a call from her son in Florida, who brought the grim news. A Kurdish woman turned to Ms. Gruss and said, ''They fire in Iraq. They fire in the United States.''
 ''She was almost defeated in a way,'' Ms. Gruss said. ''She couldn't find a safe haven. She was one of those who had to walk over the mountains from Iraq to Turkey to escape Saddam. Then they're shooting at her.''
 Upstairs in the alcove, Ms. Jourdain lay staring at the floor. 
 She and three other students fled their classroom when they heard the first shots, hiding in a doorless alcove off a back staircase. She, another woman and a man lay on the floor, shoulder to shoulder. Another man crouched near them because there was no room for him to lie down.
 She could hear the gunman's footsteps, could hear him talking to himself, though she could not understand what he was saying. She kept praying.
 ''Thank God he did not see the stairs,'' Ms. Jourdain said. 
 Soon, she heard different sounds: the voices of officers, telling them it was safe to come out. ''I say, 'Thank you, God,' '' she said. ''He gives me life again.''
 Three hours and 15 minutes after they first entered the boiler room, Ms. Gruss and the students were escorted out by the police. Afterward, several students told Ms. Gruss they would not be returning to class. ''Many were refugees, they came to the United States for safety and get attacked here,'' she said. ''It was just an awful intrusion.''
 The police also led Ms. Thach and the others out of the storage room and into the hallway, one by one, hands on their heads, as the officers had instructed.
 ''Americans are very good people; they love people,'' she said. ''How could this happen here? They are very good.''
 Ms. Thach said she would return to classes. On Saturday morning, in the living room of her small house on Baxter Street, she went to her purse. Her hands shook as she reached for her citizenship manual.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Con Thi Thach, at home with her husband, Kel Thach, survived a shooting Friday in Binghamton in which a gunman killed 13.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REFUGEES (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); FIREARMS (69%); FOOTWEAR (68%); COUNTIES (65%); SUICIDE (63%); LAWYERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); DANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



177 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA: EXCERPTS FROM OPINION ONLINE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 844 words

 BODY:
ZOOM The soldier's body was found near the center of Gettysburg with no identification -- no regimental numbers on his cap, no corps badge on his jacket, no letters, no diary. Nothing save for an ambrotype (an early type of photograph popular in the late 1850s and 1860s) of three small children clutched in his hand. Within a few days the ambrotype came into the possession of Benjamin Schriver, a tavern keeper in the small town of Graeffenburg, about 13 miles west of Gettysburg. The details of how Schriver came into possession of the ambrotype have been lost to history. But the rest of the story survives. ... 
 There is something magical and sad about chronicling the history of a man who went more than halfway around the world on a whaling ship and then died (presumably alone) in a small town, a couple of hundred miles from his home. It is possible to chart Amos Humiston's movements from the moment he joined the 154th New York Volunteer Infantry in Jamestown, N.Y., to Gettysburg, Pa. -- a winding, circuitous, ant-like path that might have meaning, but then again, might not. And even if we could chart it completely, does it bring us closer to Amos Humiston? Does it capture the essence of the man? Even if we knew where he was every minute of his waking life? Would that tell us who he is?
 There is an endless fascination with last words, but what about last images? There is the legend of a last image being permanently imprinted on the retinas of those about to die. Here, the ambrotype reveals that last image. By looking at the faces of the Humiston children, we can see what Humiston was seeing as he died. Or perhaps they can provide a glimpse of what was in his mind. Does linking his experiences with ours allow us to better know him or only to imagine ourselves as him?
 -- ERROL MORRIS, 
 from ''WHOSE FATHER WAS HE?''
 Reader Comments:
 Fascinating story. Not a hint of a smile on these children's faces. I wonder, was this photograph taken as a memento for their father to carry with him as he marched off to war and did the children know it at the time? The look translates a fear and concern not understood by children too young to grasp the implications of their father's leaving, but keenly felt as they observed the fear and concern exhibited by their parents as they faced the sad parting.
 -- Posted by James Beall
 Thank you for one of the most emotionally moving stories to come out of the Civil War. My husband's American roots go back to the 1600's and his great-great-grandfather, who had been wounded fighting for the North, had to return to fight again but ended up surviving. The only history we have is oral history passed down through the generations. Amos Humiston's story fills for us some of the gaps that we have because we have no other tangible personal information. It has given some of us a blueprint on where to begin to find out more about our own family's Civil War history.
 -- Posted by Judith Moore
 HEADING HOME The game of baseball grows and changes when its doors open up to the world. Each culture adds its own flavor -- just as when Jackie Robinson arrived with elbows flying and spikes high, something unheard of in 1947. It challenges everyone to see the game through new eyes; it improves baseball.
 In this country, in many areas, baseball has often led the way. The longtime battles between the players' union and the owners, for instance, resulted ultimately in refinements in employment law nationwide. Integration of the game pushed our entire country to rethink its attitudes toward race, ultimately expanding diversity beyond just black and white.
 When I played, I was always inspired by the fact that my teammates of nearly all walks of life prayed together, won together, lived together, traveled together, cried together, rose above together -- and we did it every single day. If you want to survive as a unit, you have to figure out how to work in harmony. Once you taste the power of pooling global, cultural and economic diversity (religious diversity needs some work), it is almost impossible not to have a new understanding of how much people really have in common and how much further we can go together when we respect that power.
 -- DOUG GLANVILLE,
 from ''THE WORLD IN ONE GAME''
 PROOF Time doesn't stop for anyone; alcohol just keeps us from feeling it, the way it'll keep a man warm while he freezes to death. It elides the years as painlessly as it does hours; your 20's turn into your 30's the same way you'll look at your watch one minute and it's only 8:30 -- the night is young, all the time in the world -- and then suddenly it's last call.
 I woke up to find myself in my 40's in much the same way I used to wake up disoriented on friends' couches. 
 I'm a little appalled at all the time I've lost, but then, wasting time wasn't exactly an unforeseen side effect; it was part of the fun. Of course it was; if drinking wasn't so much fun it wouldn't be such a widespread and terrible problem. 
 -- TIM KREIDER,
 from ''TIME AND THE BOTTLE''
 For more, nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); WHALING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (70%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



178 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2123 words

 BODY:
Comedy
 POUGHKEEPSIE Bardavon Opera House Stephen Lynch, musical-based stand-up. April 17 at 8 p.m. $29.50 and $35. Bardavon Opera House, 35 Market Street. (845) 473-5288; bardavon.org. 
 TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall Demetri Martin, stand-up. April 18 at 7 p.m. $34.50. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street.
 tarrytownmusichall.org; (877) 840-0457. 
 Film 
 PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center ''Best of Ottawa Animation Festival 2008,'' highlights from the festival featuring works from around the world. April 13 at 5:15 and 7:15 p.m. $6 to $10. ''Jazz Sessions: Paris Blues,'' starring Paul Newman, Joanne Woodward, Sidney Poitier and Diahann Carroll. Reception with live jazz and New Orleans-style food. April 16 at 7 p.m. $12 and $16. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. (914) 747-5555;
 burnsfilmcenter.org. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College ''Focus on French Cinema 2009,'' various screenings and events. Through April 5. $10 to 95. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road.
 focusonfrenchcinema.org; (914) 251-6200. 
 For Children
 MAMARONECK Emelin Theater ''Junie B. Jones,'' musical comedy based on the stories by Barbara Park. Presented by TheaterWorks U. S. A. Ages 5 and up. April 18 at 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. $13 and $18. Emelin Theater, 153 Library Lane. (914) 698-0098; emelin.org. 
 NEW ROCHELLE New Rochelle Public Library ''Balloon Sculptures Workshop.'' Learn how to twist and turn balloons into hats, animals and other works of art. Ages 3 and up. Monday, 1 to 2 p.m. Free. ''Mad About Books.'' Musician Danna Banana uses music and drama to bring books alive with the help of the audience. Ages 4 to 10. April 18 at 12:30 p.m. Free. New Rochelle Public Library, 1 Library Plaza. (914) 632-7878; nrpl.org. 
 PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center ''Dr. Doolittle,'' 1967 film starring Rex Harrison. Ages 3 and up. April 11 through April 19. $6 to $10. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. (914) 747-5555; 
 burnsfilmcenter.org. 
 RYE Edith G. Read Wildlife Sanctuary ''Egg-Layers: Oviparous Creatures of Read Sanctuary.'' Learn about the different animals that lay eggs and take a walk to see some of them. Participants will make their own edible nests complete with eggs to take home. Ages 4 and up. April 11 at 2 p.m. Free. Edith G. Read Wildlife Sanctuary, Playland Parkway.
 westchestergov.com/parks; (914) 967-8720. 
 SOMERS Muscoot Farm ''Puppet Show.'' Fred Greenspan's troupe performs a nonviolent Punch & Judy show for the whole family. Weather permitting; bring blankets to sit on. Ages 3 and up. April 12 at 1 and 2:30 p.m. Free. Muscoot Farm, Route 100.
 westchestergov.com/parks;
 (914) 864-7282. 
 WHITE PLAINS White Plains High School ''The Mark Show,'' hip-hop, ballet, music, vocalists and ensembles. Prizes for best teen talent. Presented by the Mark Brent Dolinsky Memorial Foundation. April 18 at 7:30 p.m. Free to $10. White Plains High School, 550 North Street. dolinskyfoundation.org; (914) 948-0688.WHITE PLAINS White Plains Public Library ''Jerusalem Sky,'' a children's exhibition. Through April 5. White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue. (914) 422-1480; 
 whiteplainslibrary.org. 
 Museums and Galleries
 KATONAHKatonah Museum of Art ''Lichtenstein in Process,'' featuring 65 works by the artist. Through June 28. $3 and $5; members and children, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays till 8 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Katonah Museum of Art, 134 Jay Street. (914) 232-9555; katonahmuseum.org. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts ''The Hudson Valley Project,'' photography exhibition presented by the Ground Glass. Through June 30. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; paramountcenter.org. 
 POUGHKEEPSIEVassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center ''Faith and Fantasy in Outsider Art From the Permanent Collection,'' more than 50 paintings, drawings, sculptures and mixed-media works by self-taught ''outsider'' artists. Through April 26. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, 124 Raymond Avenue. fllac.vassar.edu; (845) 437-5632. 
 PURCHASENeuberger Museum of Art ''Andy Warhol: Pop Politics,'' exhibition of more than 60 works on political leaders who shaped the past century. Through April 26. ''Andy Warhol: Snapshots,'' exhibition of more than 50 photographs from the museum's permanent collection, taken by the artist at different stages in his career. Through May 17. ''American Gothic: True or Faux Notions of American Culture,'' exhibition examining activism, Pop, the Cold War, feminism and capital excess in 1960s America. Through June 7. ''New Media: Why,'' exhibition investigating thematic aspects of technology-based artwork. Through June 28. ''E-Cyclorama,'' large cylindrical panorama painting by Sanford Wurmfeld. Tuesday through Sept. 13. ''African Art and Culture: Selections From the Collection.'' Through Dec. 1. ''Outdoor Sculpture From the Permanent Collection,'' modern and contemporary art throughout the Purchase College campus. Through Dec. 31. All exhibitions $3 and $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Neuberger Museum of Art, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6100; neuberger.org. 
 WEST NYACK Rockland Center for the Arts ''Office Space'' contemporary artists using simple materials representing uniformity while celebrating the individual. Through April 30. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Rockland Center for the Arts, 27 South Greenbush Road. rocklandartcenter.org; (845) 358-0877. 
 YONKERSHudson River Museum ''Whitfield Lovell: All Things in Time,'' large-scale found objects and charcoal portraits examining African-Americans from Reconstruction through World War II. Through May 10. $3 and $5; members, free. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, noon to 8 p.m. Hudson River Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. (914) 963-4550; hrm.org. 
 Theater
 BRIARCLIFF MANOR Hudson Stage Company ''The Pursuit of Happiness,'' comedy by Richard Dresser. April 17 through May 2. $25 and $30. Hudson Stage Company, 235 Elm Road. hudsonstage.com; (877) 238-5596. 
 HARRISON The Veterans' Memorial Building ''Last of the Red Hot Lovers,'' comedy by Neil Simon. April 17 through April 19. $18 and $20. The Veterans' Memorial Building, 210 Halstead Avenue. (914) 937-8427;
 harrisonplayers.org. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts ''Hedda Gabler,'' drama by Henrik Ibsen. Presented by the Might Theater Company. April 5 at 2 p.m. $25. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; paramountcenter.org. 
 PLEASANTVILLE St. John's Episcopal Church Community House ''Cherry and Jerry,'' comedy by Howard Meyer. Presented by Axial Theater. Through April 5. $15 and $20. St. John's Episcopal Church Community House, 8 Sunnyside Avenue. (914) 286-7680;
 axialtheatre.org. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College ''Richard III,'' by William Shakespeare. Presented by the Purchase Repertory Theater. Through April 5. $12.50 and $17.50. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; artscenter.org.
 Music and Dance
 ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts Bard Conservatory Orchestra, classical. Conducted by Leon Botstein. April 5 at 3 p.m. Free. Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts, 30 Campus Road. fishercenter.bard.edu; (845) 758-7900. 
 BEACON Howland Cultural Center Pacifica String Quartet, classical. All Mendelssohn program. April 5 at 4 p.m. $10 and $30. Howland Cultural Center, 477 Main Street. (845) 297-9243; howlandmusic.org. 
 IRVINGTON Irvington Town Hall Roger McGuinn with special guest Loretta Hagen, folk and pop. April 17 at 8:30 p.m. $38. ''Jazz Goes to the Movies,'' presented by Westchester Jazz Orchestra. April 18 at 8 p.m. $5 to $35. Irvington Town Hall, 85 Main Street. (914) 591-6602; irvingtontheater.com. 
 KATONAHCaramoor Center for Music and the Arts ''Mendelssohn at 200,'' featuring the Brentano String Quartet, with special guest Hsin-Yun Huang, viola. April 19 at 4 p.m. $40. Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts, 149 Girdle Ridge Road. (914) 232-1252; caramoor.com. 
 KINGSTON Ulster Performing Arts Center Hudson Valley Philharmonic, classical. Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and works by Haydn. April 18 at 8 p.m. $25 to $47. Ulster Performing Arts Center, 601 Broadway. (845) 473-2072; upac.org. 
 MAMARONECK Emelin Theater John Reischman and the Jaybirds, bluegrass. April 17 at 8 p.m. $37. Susan Werner, folk and pop. April 18 at 8 p.m. $40. Emelin Theater, 153 Library Lane. (914) 698-0098; emelin.org. 
 OSSINING Ossining High School ''Music From an American Icon.'' Rosanne Cash, featuring John Leventhal. Presented by Ossining Matters. April 18 at 7 p.m. $15 to $125. Ossining High School, 29 South Highland Avenue. (914) 510-9320; 
 ossiningmatters.org.
 PIERMONT The Turning Point Sonny Fortune Quartet, jazz. Monday at 8 p.m. $20. Dan Hicks and the Hot Licks, blues. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $40. The Turning Point, 468 Piermont Avenue. (845) 359-1089; turningpointcafe.com. 
 POUGHKEEPSIE Bardavon Opera House Ronan Tynan, Irish tenor. April 19 at 5 p.m. $37 to $55. Bardavon Opera House, 35 Market Street. (845) 473-5288; bardavon.org. 
 POUGHKEEPSIE Vassar College, Skinner Hall Vassar College Jazz Ensemble. April 17 at 8 p.m. Free. Vassar College, Skinner Hall, 124 Raymond Avenue. (845) 437-7294; arts.vassar.edu. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College The National Philharmonic of Russia, classical. Program includes Prokofiev, Tchaikovsky, Liadov and Scriabin. April 17 at 8 p.m. $36 to $70. ''A Modern Spring,'' classical. Presented by the Westchester Philharmonic and featuring the guest conductor George Manahan. April 18 and 19. $25 to $75. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200;
 artscenter.org. 
 SLEEPY HOLLOW Sleepy Hollow High School The St. Lawrence String Quartet, classical. Piano quintets by Dohnanyi, Shostakovich and Franck. April 18 at 8 p.m. $12 and $25. Sleepy Hollow High School, 210 North Broadway. (914) 271-8598; friendsofmusicconcerts.org.
 TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall Josh Ritter, folk and rock. April 5 at 8 p.m. $30 to $45. Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes, rhythm and blues. April 17 at 8 p.m. $55 and $60. Herb Alpert and Lani Hall, jazz. April 19 at 8 p.m. $45 to $85. The Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457;
 tarrytownmusichall.org.
 Spoken Word
 KATONAH Katonah Museum of Art ''Gift of Art Lecture Series.'' Marcy B. Freedman discusses the social and economic upheavals of late 18th-century Europe and their impact on the visual arts. April 14 at 7 p.m. Katonah Museum of Art, 134 Jay Street. katonahmuseum.org; (914) 232-9555. 
 MOUNT VERNON St. Paul's Church National Historic Site ''Washington's Spies.'' The historian Alexander Rose explores the world of New York area spies who supplied George Washington with crucial information during the Revolutionary War. April 11 at 2 p.m. Free. St. Paul's Church National Historic Site, 897 South Columbus Avenue. nps.gov/sapa.; (914) 667-4116. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College ''Sexy Lobsters, Succulent Sushi: How We Can Save the Seas with Good Eating.'' Trevor Corson discusses biology and conservation through anecdotes. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Free. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; artscenter.org. 
 SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester ''Carol Leifer in Conversation,'' moderated by Jerry Seinfeld. Live satellite broadcast from the 92nd Street Y. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $9 and $11. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300;
 jccmidwestchester.org. 
 YONKERS Esther Raushenbush Library ''Afghanistan Now: A Hundred-Year History of War,'' discussion featuring Christian Parenti. April 13, 5:30 to 7 p.m. Free. Esther Raushenbush Library, Sarah Lawrence College. (914) 395-2412. 
 Outdoors
 CROTON-ON-HUDSON Croton Point Nature Center ''Earth Day Shore Clean Up.'' Work gloves and trash bags provided. Refreshments served. Meet at the nature center. April 18, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Free. Croton Point Nature Center, Croton Point Park. westchestergov.com/parks; (914) 862-5927. 
 VALHALLA Kensico Dam Plaza ''Earth Day Westchester 2009.'' Live music, exhibits and demonstrations, children's activities. Discover ways to combat global warming and climate change. April 19, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Free. Kensico Dam Plaza, north end of the Bronx River Parkway. (914) 864-7275; westchestergov.com. Theater

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ELMSFORD: Jill Abramovitz, center, plays Fanny Brice in the musical comedy ''Funny Girl'' at Westchester Broadway Theater through June 14. 75 Clearbrook Road. $73, price includes meal. broadwaytheatre.com
 (914) 592-2222. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); ANIMALS (86%); LIBRARIES (86%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (86%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); SCULPTURE (75%); ANIMATION (71%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%); WILDLIFE (68%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



179 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Policy Agenda Poses Test for Rusty Legislative Machinery

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The ambitious policy agenda encapsulated in the advancing federal budget will test whether Congress can shake the rust from its legislative machinery and overcome the powerful inertia that has gripped it in recent years.
 Lawmakers, senior staff members and other experts agree that a combination of divided government, thin majorities, the running battle for Congressional control and an emphasis on national security caused a decline in the old-school legislative give-and-take that will be required to deliver major health, energy and education measures to President Obama.
 ''We have been miniaturized,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, a moderate Republican from Maine and a veteran of health care negotiations. ''You have three talking points on a card. We are going to have to be taught and relearn the process, crack the notebooks.'' 
 Congress has not even managed to produce its basic spending bills on time in recent years and has exhausted considerable energy dealing with recurring tax and Medicare snags. Big bills have been few and far between -- the 2003 Medicare drug plan and a 2007 energy law are examples -- as lawmakers nibbled around the edges of problems.
 One of the most serious efforts by lawmakers to hash out a comprehensive response to a vexing national crisis collapsed in 2007 when an immigration proposal drafted during weeks of talks among some of the most polished and experienced legislators in the Senate died on the Senate floor.
 As members of Congress and analysts look at the daunting demands for legislation emanating from the White House, some wonder if Congress is up to the task.
 ''Do we have a Lyndon Johnson in the Senate at the moment, someone who can push through legislation?'' asked Stanley E. Collender, a former top aide on Capitol Hill and a longtime observer of Congressional budget fights. ''We haven't seen it in a while.'' 
 The budgets approved by the House and Senate last week, which must still be reconciled for a final vote, are only the first step and a relatively easy one compared with producing the related legislation. 
 To secure passage of their budgets, the authors provided Congress the opportunity to pursue major changes to health care, energy and education policy, among others. But they left it up to the relevant committees in Congress to fill in the blanks as to what those policies should be and how to produce the revenue to pay for them. No one expects it to be smooth or simple to reach those conclusions.
 ''This is going to be the year of the big lift,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon and the author of a bipartisan health care proposal. ''After eight years of delay and deny, it is time. I think the public has a right to expect to see, given the economic challenges, the big ones tackled.'' 
 Mr. Wyden, other House and Senate leaders and administration officials said they believed Congress was capable of delivering the goods, particularly when it comes to a health care overhaul they called long overdue.
 ''I think there is a national consensus that this is something we need to do,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. ''That is a better context in which to legislate, and you have a president who is focused, committed and motivated.''
 In addition, some of the most important potential players in the health care arena -- including Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California -- are nearing the end of their careers and would like to achieve a legislative breakthrough. 
 ''It would be a great legacy if we could get significant health reform passed, and the same with energy and climate change,'' said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, who, as chairman of the tax-writing Finance Committee, would be central in the health care and energy discussions. ''But health care reform is probably near the top in terms of urgency and terms of timing.''
 Another factor giving lawmakers some reason for optimism is the sense that the White House and its cast of former members of Congress and top aides has so far demonstrated an ability to work with Congress and get results, with initial passage of the budget being the latest achievement. Mr. Collender said the administration seemed to grasp the Congressional psyche.
 But simple matters of logistics can slow progress, and the calendar has a tendency to get away from Congress. In an effort to streamline the health care process, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has instructed the leaders of the three House committees that will handle the issue to work closely together, hoping to avoid a train wreck.
 John B. Breaux, a former Democratic senator from Louisiana known for his deal-making prowess, said Congress was typically better off taking smaller bites at issues rather than, in this case, pursuing a new health care approach and climate change while tackling a serious financial crisis as well.
 ''These are big enchiladas,'' said Mr. Breaux, now a lobbyist. ''It is always easier for Congress to do incremental reform. It is much more difficult to do the big picture, the whole thing all at once.'' 
 A still unknown factor is the extent Republicans will be engaged in trying to produce any bills. They are waiting to see if Democrats include a fast-track procedure for health care and education measures in their final budget, a plan that could protect the legislation from Senate filibusters but also start a partisan war.
 Even if Democrats proceed on their own, there are enough significant intraparty divisions on health policy, global warming, transportation and education to make things difficult. But lawmakers said they saw an opening and were ready to prove the doubters wrong.
 ''Whether we can get it clear across the finish line, I don't know,'' said Senator Jeff Bingaman, the New Mexico Democrat who is chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. ''But there is a serious effort going on in health care and energy. We will see.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As a senator, Lyndon B. Johnson, at center in 1951, could push through legislation, but the Senate has lacked such a person for years.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); APPROVALS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



180 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: For Wine Lovers, News Is Good on Corkage Fees

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH MAKER

 BODY:
EVEN before the recession, restaurants that allowed you to bring your own bottle of wine were beloved, not just by penny pinchers, but by wealthy patrons who liked to show off and share rare vintages from their own impressive cellars.
 In Litchfield County, locals like Joan Rivers, Milos Forman and Conan O'Brien lamented last year's closing of Doc's Trattoria, which used to serve Southern Italian fare in a small clapboard building on Lake Waramaug in New Preston. ''It's sad, because it was quaint and charming, the food was great and Milos could bring one of his favorites from his collection,'' said Mr. Forman's wife, Martina, from the couple's home in Warren.
 Many loyal patrons have followed Doc's to its new location in Kent, but some were dismayed in the first few months. Since Doc's now has a liquor license, patrons who brought their own wine were asked to pay $25 for the waiter to pull the cork and pour. 
 ''People don't understand that most restaurants rely heavily on their liquor sales to survive,'' said Richard Rosenthal, chairman of the board of the Connecticut Restaurant Association. ''People try to weasel out of paying corkage fees, which isn't right. I don't think you should be allowed to bring your own wine to a restaurant that sells wine. That's like going to your local pub and bringing a burger.'' 
 But restaurant owners also rely heavily on the good will of their customers. ''Some people were a little cranky'' about the corkage fee, said Ryan Alves, an assistant manager at Doc's. ''So we lowered it to $10.''
 Because of the sour economy, many other restaurateurs across Connecticut have decided to reduce or eliminate their corkage fees entirely -- not just for wine, but in some cases for beer and hard liquor as well.
 ''We just reduced our corkage fee from $25 a bottle to $10 a bottle,'' said Shari Kelly, a manager at Apricot's in Farmington, which is celebrating its 25th anniversary this year. ''We've got a full bar, but we understand that people are having a really hard time. We've got to get through this together.''
 At Ristorante Lucia, on historic Bank Street in New Milford, the owners just decided to waive their $10 corkage fee. ''We were BYOB for the first two months after we opened, until we got our liquor license,'' said John Bourdeau, a co-owner. ''People got used to that and still wanted to bring their own. We thought a corkage fee was the reasonable thing to do, so we set it at $10. But now the economy has changed all that. People need a break.''
 The River Cat Grill, near the Five Mile River in Rowayton, is also waiving its $10 corkage fee. ''We're definitely feeling the effects of the economy,'' said Terry McSpedon, the general manager there. ''We thought, if we eliminate the corkage fee, people will be more inclined to come out to dinner, and maybe they'll order a second bottle from us, or an after-dinner-drink.''
 Then there are the hidden little gems that have always been BYOB, which are actually doing better than ever in this economy, like Mamie's in Roxbury, Tutti Invitati in Westport, Little Thai Kitchen in Greenwich and Portobello Restaurant and Pizza in Brookfield. 
 ''Everyone wants BYOB these days,'' said Mamie Keys, whose eponymous restaurant on the Shepaug River is full every weekend with Roxbury residents like Denis Leary, Rex Reed and Dustin Hoffman, along with local farmers and families.
 ''Some of our regulars are big wine collectors, and they bring some really nice bottles. Others just bring whatever they grab at the store for under $10. People are disgusted with paying $10 for a glass of wine,'' Ms. Keys said. 
 At Tutti Invitati, ''We've never been so busy,'' said Maria Funicello, who owns the six-year-old restaurant with her husband, Pasquale, who is also the chef there.
 Dennis Scully of Norwalk said he and his wife and friends eat there every Friday night. ''We go to this great liquor store, Fountainhead Wines in East Norwalk, that has these amazing wines for like $7. Then we go to Tutti's and have this outrageously great meal, with salad, coffee and dessert, and we're out of there for under $75 a couple.''
 Little Thai Kitchen in Greenwich is a tiny BYOB that has become especially popular since last fall when the economy crashed, said Shiva Natarajan, the owner. Its two sister restaurants, Little Thai Kitchen in Darien and Thai Spice in Norwalk, have liquor licenses, but have allowed BYOB for a $4.50 corkage fee. 
 ''It's funny you should call, because we just decided last week to lower the corkage fee to $3,'' Mr. Natarajan said in late February. He is also planning to open a Thai/Hakka restaurant called Little Buddha in Stamford this month that will be BYOB with no corkage fee. ''I knew we could get a liquor license in Stamford,'' he said, ''but I decided against it because people really love the BYOB thing.''
 Portobello in Brookfield has developed a cultlike following since it opened in 1997. ''We've always been BYOB, with no ridiculous fees to pour your wine, and that's the way we'll stay,'' said Kenny Alka, the owner and chef.
 ''Bringing our own wine makes it possible to come here once a week without breaking the bank,'' said Doug Tricarico, who was sharing a bottle of Pinot Grigio and heaping plates of eggplant parmesan and sauteed escarole and chicken with his wife, Debra.
 Another favorite BYOB is Oliva in New Preston, which opened in 1997 and was rated ''excellent'' by The New York Times in 2003. It used to have no corkage fee, but after Riad Aamar, the chef and owner, obtained a liquor permit in 2006 and instituted one, some regular guests gasped at the $12.50-per-bottle charge.
 So Mr. Aamar decided in late February to give his oenophile patrons a perk and waive the corkage fee on Wednesdays and Thursdays.
 ''That's the kind of thing Riad does,'' said Jane-Howard Hammerstein of Washington, the writer and daughter-in-law of the composer Oscar Hammerstein. ''Not only does he make the most exquisite food on the planet, but he does whatever it takes to make everyone happy.''
 Osteria Applausi in Old Greenwich has also taken a weekday approach: on Monday nights, every wine on their wine list is 50 percent off, and the restaurant is allowing BYOB with no corkage fees on Tuesdays through Thursdays. ''People are asking for this, so we said, 'O.K., we have to stay afloat,' '' said Beppe Cornacchia, the manager. 
 Although a BYOB policy seems to be gaining momentum around the state, some restaurants, like Restaurant Jean-Louis in Greenwich, are holding tight to their corkage rules.
 ''We do not encourage you to bring wine from your cellar, simply because we continuously buy large amounts of wine and store them with great care,'' its Web site says. It does state, though, that the restaurant ''will in some cases accept an amazing bottle of wine from your cellar.'' The corkage fee is $38. 
 When asked if that was still the case in light of the economy, Jean-Louis Gerin, the owner, replied, ''The economy is fine, let's not worry about that. Yes, you may bring one bottle if it's something I do not have in my cellar.'' Then he added with a hearty laugh, ''Just be prepared to pour me a glass.''
 Many restaurants around Connecticut now allow patrons to bring their own bottle of wine, and in some cases, beer and hard liquor. Here is a list of some old favorites that have never charged corkage fees, along with some that have recently reduced or eliminated them.
 BROOKFIELD Portobello Restaurant & Pizza, 782 Federal Road, (203) 775-4400. 
 DARIEN Little Thai Kitchen, 4 West Avenue, (203) 662-0038; littlethaikitchen.com.
 FARMINGTON Apricot's Restaurant & Pub, 1593 Farmington Avenue, (860) 673-5405; apricotsrestaurant.com.
 GREENWICH Little Thai Kitchen, 21 St. Roch Avenue, (203) 622-2972; littlethaikitchen
 .com.
 KENT Doc's Trattoria, 9 Maple Street, (860) 927-3810; docstrattoria.com.
 NEW MILFORD Ristorante Lucia, 51 Bank Street, (860) 355-5100.
 NEW PRESTON Oliva, 18 East Shore Road, (860) 868-1787.
 NEW PRESTON Thai Spice, 345 Main Avenue, (203) 846-3533; littlethaikitchen.com.
 OLD GREENWICH Osteria Applausi, 199 Sound Beach Avenue, (203) 637-4447; 
 osteriaapplausi.com.
 ROWAYTON River Cat Grill, 148 Rowayton Avenue, (203) 854-0860; rivercatgrill.com.
 ROXBURY Mamie's, 162 Baker Road, (860) 210-0618; mamiesrestaurant.com.
 WESTPORT Tutti Invitati, 559 Riverside Avenue, (203) 221-0262.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about BYOB restaurants in Connecticut, using information from the manager at Applausi Osteria in Old Greenwich, misstated the corkage fees for Tuesday through Thursday nights. The fee on Tuesday night has been reduced to $20 from $35; the fees on Wednesday and Thursday nights are still $35 and have not been waived.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STRONG SALES: As a BYOB, Tutti Invitati in Westport has never had a corkage fee, and a co-owner says, ''We've never been so busy.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 I'LL DRINK TO THAT: Owners of BYOBs like Tutti Invitati in Westport, top left, where John Pinto and Dennis Scully enjoy a homemade cabernet-zinfandel blend, are reporting robust business. The River Cat Grill in Rowayton, above, is waiving its $10 corkage fee. Below, Anneke Spencer at the BYOB Portobello Restaurant and Pizza in Brookfield.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



181 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
THE TEN MOST BEAUTIFUL EXPERIMENTS, by George Johnson. (Vintage, $13.95.) ''Until very recently,'' writes Johnson, a science writer who contributes to The New York Times, ''the most earthshaking science came from individual pairs of hands.'' This lively book describes experiments both familiar -- Galileo's studying motion by rolling balls down an incline -- and less so, like Luigi Galvani's discovery of ''animal electricity.'' They evoke a time before multimillion-dollar experiments were carried out by large research teams. 
 THE MOTHER GARDEN: Stories, by Robin Romm. (Scribner, $15.) Ten of the 12 stories in this impressive first collection concern a dead or dying parent (''We've gone from hoping for miracle cures to just hoping the sandwiches are good,'' one character says). With confident, straightforward prose and a little bit of surrealism, these ''slice-of-death'' narratives, as our reviewer, Gregory Cowles, called them, are ''whimsical and affecting.'' 
 THE SECOND WORLD: How Emerging Powers Are Redefining Global Competition in the Twenty-First Century, by Parag Khanna. (Random House, $16.) This sweeping survey of contemporary geopolitics argues that we are on the cusp of a new world order -- ''a multipolar and multicivilizational world of three distinct superpowers competing on a planet of shrinking resources.'' The three are the United States, the European Union and China, and the prize is the resources of the second world: Latin America, the former Soviet bloc, the Middle East and Asia. 
 THE TEN-YEAR NAP, by Meg Wolitzer. (Riverhead, $16.) ''How will you bear the rest of your life?'' one of Wolitzer's characters asks. This novel, Wolitzer's eighth, tracks a group of upper-middle-class women who left the work force to stay home with their children and must figure out what to do next. This ''taxonomy of the subspecies known as the urban female'' is ''very entertaining,'' Penelope Green wrote in the Book Review. ''Wolitzer . . . can nail a contemporary type, scene or artifact with deadeye accuracy.'' 
 IDA. A SWORD AMONG LIONS: Ida B. Wells and the Campaign Against Lynching, by Paula J. Giddings. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $19.99.) Mob killings of blacks in the South began after the end of Reconstruction; according to an N.A.A.C.P. study, there were some 3,400 of them between 1882 and 1927. One of the first African-Americans to raise an informed protest -- as a pamphleteer, speaker and newspaper editor -- was Ida B. Wells, who was born into slavery in 1862. In this comprehensive biography, Giddings situates Wells in the progressive movement among American middle-class blacks. 
 THE ITALIAN LOVER, by Robert Hellenga. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.99.) In this sequel to Hellenga's first novel, ''The Sixteen Pleasures,'' an American woman living in Italy is swept up in a movie being made of the memoir she wrote 25 years earlier. ''This being Italy, there are affairs, fiery outbursts and lots of rich food,'' our reviewer, Alison McCulloch, wrote. 
 THE MAGICAL CHORUS: A History of Russian Culture From Tolstoy to Solzhenitsyn, by Solomon Volkov. Translated by Antonina W. Bouis. (Vintage, $16.95.) The artists, writers, musicians and filmmakers of 20th-century Russia, and the dictators and secret police chiefs who hounded them, fill this sophisticated, oddly apolitical book. 
 FIRE TO FIRE: New and Selected Poems, by Mark Doty. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) This collection, which includes samples from Doty's seven books of poetry along with some new work, won the National Book Award in 2008. With ''their praise for the world and their fierce accusation,'' the poems are ''elegant, plain-spoken and unflinching,'' the judges said. 
 THE PURPOSE OF THE PAST: Reflections on the Uses of History, by Gordon S. Wood. (Penguin, $17.) Wood, a professor of history at Brown University, has been writing long-form reviews for The New York Review of Books and The New Republic for some 25 years. Gathered here, they summarize Wood's approach -- a leaning toward narrative and political history, a conviction that history writing should be accessible, a belief that present-day political views should not affect the study of the past. 
 MORNING AND EVENING TALK, by Naguib Mahfouz. Translated by Christina Phillips. (Anchor, $13.95.) Three related families over five generations -- from Napoleon's invasion until the 1980s -- populate this last novel by the Nobel Prize-winning Egyptian writer, who died in 2006. Told through alphabetized character sketches, the novel conveys the sweep of history and the decline of a traditional way of life. 
 HITMAN, by Parnell Hall. (Pegasus, $14.95.) Hall's private-eye hero is hired by an English teacher who wants to retire from his sideline as a contract killer; at their first meeting, they disagree about whether ''hit man'' should be one word or two. In the Book Review, Marilyn Stasio said she enjoyed this ''pithy, clever, modestly erudite mystery.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); LABOR FORCE (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); SLAVERY (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (69%); LATIN AMERICA (54%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%); ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



182 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Bing Is Planning a New Career in a New Arena: Detroit Politics

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
With thousands of fans dressed in green and white pouring into Detroit to root for Michigan State in the Final Four this weekend, Tom Izzo's team has given the city and state a temporary distraction from its plight. 
 The local unemployment rate was reported at 13.6 percent in February. The auto industry is in turmoil and home foreclosures are so prevalent that numerous homes are listed online for less than $100. The last elected mayor, Kwame M. Kilpatrick, was recently released from prison after lying under oath about an affair with his former chief of staff. 
 Once the Final Four ends, the focus will turn from Izzo to another local basketball icon who is trying to bring hope to the city. Dave Bing, the N.B.A. Hall of Famer and a prominent local businessman, is running for mayor in a special election against Mayor Kenneth V. Cockrel Jr., who is also a Democrat, on May 5. 
 ''I'm not a big political guy, but I'm a big Dave Bing guy,'' Izzo said. ''He handles himself with class and I think you automatically gain respect for the man. Here in Detroit, he could be somebody that people would rally behind.'' 
 Bing came to Detroit as the No. 2 pick in the N.B.A. draft in 1966 and has lived here ever since, playing nine seasons for the Pistons. He held a job every off-season, either with the National Bank of Detroit or Chrysler. After retiring from basketball in 1978, Bing started his own business, the Bing Group, in 1980. A company that primarily manufactures auto parts, the Bing Group employs 500 people and has brought in as much as $300 million a year in revenue, Bing said. 
 He sees his city at a crossroads. 
 ''Our city is in a crisis,'' Bing said. ''We lack leadership. We're fighting against each other. You have the city versus the suburbs. Black against white. We're a mess right now. I feel with my people skills, with the contacts that I've made over the 42 years both in the city and outside, I think I bring a knowledge base and connectivity to try and right our ship here.'' 
 Bing grew up in Washington and attended Syracuse University, where he played in the same backcourt as the current Orange coach, Jim Boeheim. Boeheim said Bing was the kind of guy who was the first to practice and the first in class. Boeheim says Bing is one of the greatest Syracuse players, calling Bing's game ''ahead of his time'' and saying it would have easily translated to the modern N.B.A. Yet Boeheim said Bing's game was not the only impressive thing. 
 ''Dave was always focused on getting things done the right way,'' Boeheim said. ''The skills you need to be successful, the competitiveness, intelligence and ability to work with people. Not many people have those. Dave has all those qualities.''
 Bing said the three main tenets of his campaign are job creation, public safety and education. He described Kilpatrick's mayoral tenure as epitomizing the cronyism rampant in Detroit politics.
 Bing's campaign took a hit last month when The Detroit Free Press reported that for years he falsely claimed that he received his degree from Syracuse in 1966 and stated in an N.B.A. video that he has an M.B.A. 
 Bing called it a ''dead issue'' and explained that he did not realize until contacted in 1995 that he had received an incomplete for a course and had not graduated. He immediately wrote a paper to complete the course and received his degree. As for the N.B.A. video, he said he misspoke.
 ''People who know me, it didn't matter,'' Bing said. ''People who didn't know me, it may have raised an eyebrow.''
 Critics have attacked Bing, pointing out a gaffe in a campaign built around ethics. But Bing said that the reputation he has built in the city over the last four decades would prevail. 
 ''I think the old way of running the city has gotten us where we are,'' Bing said. ''It's not going to work. Politics have led the city for a long time. I think it's time for business to lead the city.'' 
 Bing won the special primary on Feb. 24, receiving 29 percent of the vote. Cockrel, a former city councilman who succeeded Kilpatrick after he stepped down last September, received 27 percent of the vote. A prominent former N.B.A. player trying to make a difference in politics is not new. The former Phoenix Suns star Kevin Johnson is the mayor of Sacramento. The former Knicks star Bill Bradley went on to a long career in the United States Senate, representing New Jersey. 
 ''The entire league is very supportive for Dave,'' said the N.B.A.'s deputy commissioner, Adam Silver. ''He's been a terrific ambassador for the league over the years. He's a genuine American success story.''
 If Bing wins this election and then a full term and can turn around Detroit, his legacy in the city will long outlast his basketball and business careers. Could a basketball and business icon become a political one? 
 ''I think this is probably the most crucial time since I've been here the last 42 years,'' Bing said. ''Our city is in a downward spiral. If we don't get the right leadership and do the things that are necessary to turn it around, I don't know if we wouldn't go into receivership. That's something that nobody wants to happen, but we're close to that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Hall of Famer Dave Bing (21) in 1967. Now a successful businessman, below, he is running for mayor of Detroit against Kenneth V. Cockrel Jr. in a special election on May 5. (ABOVE, JOHN LYNDSAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT PISTONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (51%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



183 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM CAIRO; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: For Egypt, Promise of 1979 Peace Remains Unfulfilled

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
In the past week, Egypt marked the historic 30-year anniversary of its peace treaty with Israel without any public celebration and only the barest public mention.
 It is not surprising, really, that there was no cheering here. The timing could hardly have been worse, with memories still fresh of the Israeli offensive in Gaza. 
 But mention of the anniversary also served as a reminder of promises unfulfilled. Egyptians were told that the treaty would lead to a comprehensive peace, and it did not. They were told that it would allow the government to focus on political, social and economic development, instead of war. But they still live in an authoritarian state, defined for many by poverty. 
 Egyptians were told that the treaty would give them a voice to advocate for the Palestinians. But few see it as having turned out that way.
 ''Today Egypt is not influential in anything,'' said Osama Anwar Okasha, a leading Egyptian television writer. ''It is a third-class country in this region. Egypt was the leading country and it gave up this leading role. Now it is like a postman, delivering messages.''
 The public mood is dark all around right now, and the sentiment points to the treaty as the start of Egypt's decline and diplomatic impotence. 
 ''Of course the treaty is not the cause of all of this, but it was the initial seed,'' said Fahmy Howeidy, a writer and political analyst in Cairo.
 The peace treaty between Israel and Egypt is a bedrock of the Middle East peace process, positioning Egypt as a key player in every international diplomatic effort to resolve the Palestinian conflict. It is a pillar of Egypt's foreign policy, as well, and an institutional given among Egypt's governing class. President Hosni Mubarak has demonstrated that he is committed to the treaty, and to the diplomatic process and political system that built and supports the treaty.
 ''The government has been criticized by Arabs and so on during the Gaza attack but it stood its ground and did not waver because of these attacks against the peace treaty,'' said Abdel Raouf El Reedy, chairman of the Egyptian Council for Foreign Affairs and a former ambassador to the United States. ''When it comes to the government and the establishment there is a very strong commitment to the peace treaty.''
 The government's supporters often respond to the call for abrogating the treaty with one question: What then? Not only would Egypt lose about $1.4 billion a year in aid, but, they argue, it would have less leverage, less credibility with the West and a greater likelihood of being dragged into a war, once again. 
 But Mr. Mubarak finds himself stuck in a recurring loop of history, playing the same defensive arguments over and over, struggling to convince his citizens and his neighbors that the treaty is essential to stability and peace.
 There is a strong and influential alliance against Mr. Mubarak and his allies in Jordan, which also has a peace treaty with Israel, and in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, which has offered its own proposal for regional peace.
 With the support of Iran, a non-Arab state, Syria and Qatar have publicly rejected diplomacy with Israel after the fighting in Gaza and called on Egypt to abandon its treaty, as well.
 Thirty years ago, President Anwar el-Sadat broke ranks with his Arab allies, visited Jerusalem and agreed to peace with Israel. For his efforts, he was able to deliver the return of the Sinai, which had been captured and occupied by Israel.
 After Mr. Sadat was assassinated in 1981, Mr. Mubarak became president and successfully steered Egypt back into the center of the Arab world. It had been shunned over the treaty. 
 But, many people here ask, then what? 
 ''This peace treaty is not good for Egypt,'' said Ashraf Maged, 22, a business student at Cairo University. ''What did we ever get from it, in 30 years? I don't think the peace treaty is useful because in reality there is no peace; war is what we see.''
 Mr. Maged's sentiments are widespread but also reflect a generational divide. Many among the older generation, men and women who lived through or fought in three wars with Israel, often say they see the peace treaty as a necessary evil, an end to fighting that sapped the country of its resources and left many dead and bloodied. They say it was not so much about normalizing relations, which has never happened. It was just about ending the wars.
 ''Young people who say the peace was a bad thing don't understand how it was in those days,'' said Amir Muhammad Ragab, 58, who fought in the 1973 war and now owns a furniture shop. ''They think war is like in movies. They think with their hearts, not their head. They don't understand the price we paid for peace, the blood and effort it took. We don't want to go back to this.''
 It is that generational divide that has some in Washington and Israel worried about what happens after Mr. Mubarak. He will be 81 years old in May, and while he has balked at political changes at home and maintained an authoritarian state, American officials say he has remained a valuable ally because he is from the generation that remembers the costs of war. 
 A headline in a recent issue of the Israeli newspaper Haaretz read: ''Can Egypt-Israel Peace Survive After Mubarak Leaves Office?''
 But Mr. Mubarak knows that he needs to balance his support for the treaty, against the understanding that his citizens, even the older generation, view Israel as the enemy. He also is careful not to cede ground to the Muslim Brotherhood, a banned but tolerated political and social movement, whose members have called for Egypt to withdraw from the treaty and have tried, unsuccessfully to have an Egyptian court nullify the pact.
 Those efforts have resonated on the streets, even among people, like Mr. Ragab, the shop owner, who do not want to abandon the treaty, but feel duped.
 ''I was really shocked when the war in Gaza was raging,'' Mr. Ragab said. ''I was angry that we couldn't do more to stop it. Of course we shouldn't cancel the agreement, or send our diplomats home. But I felt like now the relationship is one-sided, that Egypt's voice wasn't as strong as Israel's in the relationship. It's a one-way agreement now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Visitors to a museum in Cairo last week viewed scenes from Egypt's 1973 war with Israel. Officially, Egypt noted the 30th anniversary of a peace treaty with Israel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 On March 26, 1979, President Jimmy Carter with President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel at the treaty ceremony.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAUGHERTY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); JIMMY CARTER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (93%) EGYPT (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



184 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety Is Up As Orders Fall At Boatyards

BYLINE: By DUNSTAN A. MCNICHOL

DATELINE: Bass River Township 

 BODY:
 A single pickup truck made its way across the yard of a once-busy waterfront plant here, where an assortment of yachts sat in sleek white plastic sheathing, protected from the waning winter winds. A slender water tower rises from the yard, displaying the company's name, Viking Yacht Company. For years, it has been the dominant employer in the Shore region north of Atlantic City and a leader in the luxury boat business.
 At this time of year, the plant would typically be bustling as Viking employees geared up for the busy summer season, fill orders for the multimillion-dollar luxury playthings of the wealthy. But today, with a recession choking New Jersey and the nation, the yard is quiet, with fewer workers. The boat yards at Viking and other New Jersey boat builders, once symbols of the state's booming economy, are now piling up with unsold inventory, where the gleaming new boats have suddenly turned into million-dollar bellwethers of financial collapse.
 ''We're planning on 40 percent less product,'' Andrew Davala, a Viking vice president, said recently. ''And we're keeping the lines going at a slower pace.'' 
 That slowdown translates into job losses.
 In January, Viking and another yacht maker, Silverton Marine in Millville, announced plans to lay off or furlough 742 workers by the end of March. The boatyard cutbacks were two of the three largest layoffs reported to the State Department of Labor in January.
 In the last 18 months New Jersey boat builders have eliminated about 1,000 jobs, a microcosm of the surge in joblessness that pushed New Jersey's unemployment rate to 8.2 percent last month, higher than the national rate for the first time in many years. An additional 19,700 jobs disappeared in February, labor officials said, bringing the total lost for the year so far to 32,400.
 ''It hurts us, but it hurts everybody,'' said John Foster, 43, who was furloughed in February, joining more than 500 other Viking workers let go since last summer in the face of a collapse in yacht sales. ''I don't have any bitter things to say about Viking; they held off as long as they could.''
 In nearby Weekstown, Ocean Yachts has been bleeding jobs for two years, said the general manager, John Leek IV. In that time Ocean's staff has dwindled from 130 to just 50 employees.
 And his company's troubles have spilled over to his suppliers, who have cut their own staffs and, in some cases, shut down completely, Mr. Leek said.
 ''I would have to say what's happening in the boat-building industry is similar to what's happening in other industries,'' he said. ''Within the boat industry it has the potential to be devastating. For some companies it already has been.''
 Across New Jersey, about 85,700 jobs were lost in 2008, and an additional 12,700 positions disappeared in January, according to a Department of Labor report released on March 25.
 Manufacturing, the sector of the economy that includes boat building, lost 15,900 jobs last year, according to the Labor Department report. That is a 5.1 percent decline, a rate of job loss that is almost five times steeper than the 1.17 percent decline in employment overall across the state.
 Viking, the state's biggest boat builder, now has a payroll of 800, down from 1,360 a year ago, Mr. Davala said.
 Orders for medium-sized boats, the 46-foot to 68-foot models that sell for about $1 million apiece, are off so sharply that Viking is running its production line for those boats at half speed through the summer, he said. 
 Down the road from Viking, at a deli called Munchies, the job cuts translate into fewer customers stopping by for coffee on their way to the morning shift at Viking, said Theresa Cespedes, who owns Munchies with her husband.
 ''Business has been very, very slow. Very slow,'' she said. ''The first thing people let go is yachts -- yachts and their cheeseburgers.''
 Mr. Leek, Mr. Davala and others compare the current drought in boat orders to the one in 1991, when a recession and federal luxury tax throttled yacht sales and nearly put Viking out of business. 
 Deborah Buzby-Cope, the mayor of Bass River, who has lived here all her life, said this year's collapse was worse because the widespread economic distress has left idled boatyard workers unable to find work to tide them over until things pick up again in the boat industry.
 ''Everybody is concerned about it,'' Mrs. Buzby-Cope said. ''It makes it difficult, especially with families.''
 Dennis Noble, 47, was engaged to be married when he was among 15 Viking workers called to a conference room three days before Christmas and told he was being furloughed for about a month.
 Mr. Noble went ahead with the wedding on Christmas Eve, but learned in February that his furlough had turned into a permanent layoff.
 Now he's seeking a job to replace the $15 an hour and generous medical benefits he enjoyed at Viking -- without any luck.
 ''I've been looking around for jobs, and nobody wants to pay anything,'' said Mr. Noble, who is helping to support his wife, a son and two stepchildren with part-time work at the Bass River Public Works garage and unemployment benefits. ''The only thing I've found is one and a half, two hours away.''
 Mr. Noble's experience mirrors that of hundreds of thousands of New Jersey workers, Labor Department statistics show.
 Since January 2008, the number of New Jersey residents without a job went up to 370,000 -- nearly doubling since December 2007, according to the department.
 Payments from the state's Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund neared $300 million in January, almost $100 million more than was paid out a year ago, and they continue to rise. The trust fund ran dry last month, leading to a series of federal loans and a business tax increase that is expected to raise an additional $370 million in revenue and will take effect on July 1. 
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine and economists who study the state's employment numbers said they did not expect the situation to improve anytime soon.
 ''I would expect you'll continue to see weakness in the economy all of this year,'' Mr. Corzine said in late February during a job training announcement in Trenton. ''I think you're looking at the second half of this year for stability in the labor market.''
 In Bass River, Viking is the biggest employer, and Mrs. Buzby-Cope, the mayor, follows turnout at the major boat shows in Miami and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., as closely as other mayors might keep tabs on the price of fuel oil or residential property values.
 Mr. Davala said the Fort Lauderdale show was a washout, but he said Viking left the Miami show with several orders for the company's largest yachts, its 82-foot models that sell for $4 million to $5 million.
 Mr. Davala said the company's salvation at the moment was that their customers tend to be higher earners.
 ''It's certainly a concern,'' he said of the weak economy. ''But our buyer is somewhat insulated from the economy.''
 The mayor said she was confident that Viking and the boat-building industry would return to prosperity.
 ''We saw this about 15 or 20 years ago,'' she said, recalling the luxury tax. ''We rebounded from that, and I'm confident we'll do that again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUY ME: Nearly finished yachts at Silverton Marine in Millville. Builders say inventory is up.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HUNSINGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
 ROUGH WATERS: At Silverton Marine, people have been let go. Dennis Noble, left, was on a furlough that turned into a layoff at Viking Yacht.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID HUNSINGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT BUILDING (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: VIKING YACHT CO (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5091 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES (72%); SIC3732 BOAT BUILDING & REPAIRING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



185 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses Don't Stymie a Wall St. Rally

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market rally that began on March 9 kept on rolling last week, despite a grim economic report on Friday that showed unemployment in the United States rising to 8.5 percent. 
 Job losses in the recession that began in December 2007 have now reached 5.1 million, and layoffs are continuing in a wide range of industries. But Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Friday that the Fed's efforts to thaw the credit markets had begun to take effect, and that home mortgage rates were dropping.
 Wall Street focused on the bright side of recent news, finding glimmers of hope that the pace of the economic downturn might be slackening. 
 Since March 9, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has jumped 25 percent, though it is still down almost 7 percent for the year.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 241.41 points, or 3.1 percent, to close at 8,017.59. The S.& P. 500 rose 26.56 points, or 3.3 percent, to close at 842.50. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.89 percent from 2.76 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



186 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: From Albany, Taxes Raised Enough to Hurt

BYLINE: By ROSS GOLDBERG

 BODY:
 UNDER the new state budget, Westchester's school districts avoided deep cuts in state aid, but homeowners can no longer rely on property tax rebates, and high-income earners will see their state tax bill rise.
 In an effort to help close the state's $17 billion budget gap, Gov. David A. Paterson and the state's legislative leaders agreed last week to raise tens of millions of dollars in fees and impose taxes on individuals earning more than $200,000 and couples earning more than $300,000. 
 The tax increases and elimination of the property tax rebate program prompted an outcry among local officials in Westchester, which has towns with some of the highest property tax rates in the country. 
 Andrew J. Spano, the county executive, said he was concerned that some shifts in state policy, like the dismantling of Rockefeller-era drug laws, would force an increase in local spending.
 But the spending plan isn't entirely gloom and doom: Westchester lawmakers got a share of the budget's local spending, or member items, including $20,000 for the Congress of Italian American Organizations of Yonkers and $35,000 for the Scarsdale Police Department.
 County officials expressed unhappiness with the elimination of the property tax rebate. 
 ''Our biggest complaint is property taxes in general, and anything that goes toward raising property taxes hurts us,'' Mr. Spano said. ''If you have to raise property taxes for any reason, that's going to have a significant impact on the economy and the quality of life of any individual.''
 Eliminating the property tax rebate will save the state $1.5 billion, while new income tax brackets for the highest earners will bring in $4 billion. Because Westchester has a high concentration of families with high incomes, its residents will feel the impact of the income tax increases more than most, officials said.
 ''We expect to see a disproportionate impact on New Yorkers in the region, and in particular Westchester,'' said Stephen J. Acquario, executive director of the New York State Association of Counties.
 In the governor's original proposal, state assistance for county governments and school districts was targeted for deep reductions. Under the agreement, state aid for schools will rise slightly -- largely thanks to the federal stimulus package -- although the economics of school budgets dictate that a small increase can sometimes still lead to difficult choices. 
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat, said he considered the school aid distribution to be a victory in the face of severe fiscal constraints.
 ''The thing that matters most in Westchester, frankly, is school aid,'' he said. ''We took a budget that had significant school aid cuts, and we turned it into a budget where most schools will get small aid increases from year to year.''
 Mr. Spano and Mr. Acquario said their concerns at this point were focused partly on proposed changes to the Rockefeller drug laws that could leave Westchester and other counties footing a greater share of the cost of dealing with drug offenders.
 ''It's not helpful if you take costs away from the state and impose them at the county level,'' Mr. Spano said.
 Lawrence C. Levy, the executive director of the National Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra University, said strong reaction from residents in Westchester and Long Island reflect a distrust of the Democrats who put together the budget behind closed doors -- Governor Paterson; the Senate majority leader, Malcolm A. Smith; and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver.
 ''Right now there's a lot of fear in the suburbs, particularly because the three men in the room are New York City-based politicians, and there's a fear that these folks either don't care about the suburbs, or they really don't know,'' Mr. Levy said.
 Despite concerns over the new taxes, county officials said they were relieved that cuts to schools and other services would not be as drastic as originally feared. Recent budget restorations included money for parkway patrols and a county medical examiner, Mr. Spano said. 
 The Westchester Medical Center has not been so lucky. A hospital spokesman, David Billig, said the center was estimating that it would lose $20 million annually in state reimbursements.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard L. Brodsky (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Andrew J. Spano (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (95%); BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (71%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (52%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



187 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Financial Fate, in Each Country's Hands

BYLINE: By DEVIN LEONARD

 BODY:
HERE'S a scary thought in the midst of the financial crisis. Although there was a time when Argentina and the United States were serious economic rivals, that changed with the Great Depression. America recovered and became the world's richest nation. Argentina ended up a mess.
 How did such a reversal of fortune happen? In ''False Economy: A Surprising Economic History of the World'' (Riverhead, 321 pages), Alan Beattie writes that the answer had a lot to do with the two nations' radically different responses to the panic that followed the stock market crash of 1929. 
 The United States swiftly enacted the New Deal of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Argentina ended up electing Juan Domingo Peron, who tried to seal off Argentina from the rest of the world economically. Over the years, the country would endure huge deficits, runaway inflation and a host of other maladies that contributed to economic collapse. To this day Argentina has not recovered. 
 Mr. Beattie, world trade editor at The Financial Times, provocatively suggests that it could have been the other way around. 
 What if wealthy Americans had blocked the New Deal? What if the country had fallen under the sway of demagogues like Father Charles Coughlin, the radio show host who admired Hitler and Mussolini? What if we had never removed the trade barriers we erected to shelter our industries from the world economy? We might have ended up like Argentina, too.
 In short, Mr. Beattie writes, countries choose their own economic destinies. That is worth considering as we try to extricate ourselves from the wreckage of the subprime mortgage debacle. 
 ''We created this mess and we can get ourselves out of it,'' the author says. ''To do so involves confronting a false economy of thought -- namely that our economic future is predestined and we are helplessly borne along by huge, uncontrollable, impersonal forces.'' 
 ''False Economy'' isn't really a history book; instead, each chapter is an attempt by the author to debunk what he considers to be ''fatalistic myths'' about the economies of different counties and societies. 
 He devotes a chapter titled ''Religion: Why Don't Islamic Countries Get Rich?'' to skewering some people's post-9/11 view that Islam is the reason that so many Arab countries have high rates of unemployment. If that were true, Mr. Beattie argues, why is a Muslim country like Malaysia outperforming the Christian Philippines and the largely Buddhist Thailand? Good question.
 In another chapter, ''Natural Resources: Why Are Oil and Diamonds More Trouble Than They Are Worth?,'' Mr. Beattie challenges the notion that countries with large deposits of these items beneath their soil are doomed to poverty. 
 ''The corrupting power of mineral wealth has been shown graphically in movies like 'Blood Diamond,' set in the civil war that raged in Sierra Leone in the 1990s and turned it into one of the most deprived nations on earth,'' he writes. ''When the Saddam Hussein regime fell in Baghdad, one of the first lines of public questioning was how the newly liberated Iraq could avoid the mismanagement of its oil that had characterized so many other Middle Eastern counties.''
 But that's not always the case. Mr. Beattie writes that Botswana, rich with diamonds, has managed its resources so skillfully that it now has one of world's fastest-growing economies. We will never see a Leonardo DiCaprio movie about that. But it's important to remember that not every African country needs a handout. 
 These are the more persuasive parts of ''False Economy.'' Then there are chapters, about urban planning or how the past haunts present decision making, that leave you scratching your head. 
 It would be fun to talk with Mr. Beattie at a dinner party. He's witty. He's well read and well traveled. But in his book, he has a tendency to dart from topic to topic. He jumps from continent to continent and from the dawn of history to the present. 
 At one point, he casually mentions that he spent ''10 of the most extraordinary days of my life'' traveling around Africa in 2002 with the rock star Bono and Paul H. O'Neill, then the Treasury secretary. Soon he is recounting a visit to a cotton-spinning factory in Mali. Was that the same trip? Hard to say, because Bono and Mr. O'Neill never surface again. 
 A bigger problem with ''False Economy'' is that Mr. Beattie talks about choice, but also stresses the role that history plays in economic success or failure. Remember those economically stunted Arab nations? Mr. Beattie makes a convincing case that Islam is not to blame. 
 What is the real reason? The author writes that Syria, Iran and prewar Iraq have closed, dysfunctional economies because they were invaded in the 13th century by the Mongol armies of Genghis Khan. In other words, they are supposedly still traumatized eight centuries later. This sounds a lot like the kind of historical fatalism that the book is trying so hard to discredit. It's almost as if he cannot make up his mind. 
 It's probably more useful to stick with the thrust of ''False Economy.'' There is much riding on the choices we will make as a nation in the coming months. Will we take the politically painful steps necessary to rescue the American economy? Or will we be distracted by those who rage about side issues like bonuses on Wall Street? Mr. Beattie is optimistic, and that's refreshing. Like so many things, optimism has been in short supply lately. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); WRITERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); RELIGION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MALAYSIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (70%)

TITLE: False Economy: A Surprising Economic History of the World (Book); False Economy: A Surprising Economic History of the World (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



188 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; NO. 2 MICHIGAN STATE 82, NO. 1 CONNECTICUT 73; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Spartans Give Detroit A Lift

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Ever since Michigan State clinched its improbable berth in this Final Four, Coach Tom Izzo has felt a different vibe. It has shown up at practices, at the team hotel and even on the bus ride to Ford Field as the team drove through some rough neighborhoods. 
 With Detroit taking the country's economic crisis as hard as any city, Izzo challenged his players in his pregame speech to play for more than themselves. 
 ''We are the blue-collar team and this is the blue-collar city,'' Izzo said. ''It was just amazing to walk out of that tunnel.''
 Call it an emotional stimulus package, as No. 2 Michigan State defeated top-seeded Connecticut, 82-73, on Saturday in the semifinals of the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament. With the automobile industry reeling, the unemployment rate rising and uncertainty coursing through this city after the ouster of its mayor, the people of Detroit have something to cheer. 
 ''That's one thing that we talked about, bringing hope to this city for a whole weekend,'' Michigan State's Travis Walton said. ''People forgetting about their problems and forgetting about what they're going through and just focusing on Michigan State.'' 
 The Spartans (31-6) will be energized all the way until Monday night, when they will face North Carolina (33-4) for the national title. The Tar Heels beat Villanova, 83-69, in Saturday's late game. 
 Michigan State will be in search of its third national title, the Spartans having won behind Magic Johnson in 1979 and the famous Flintstones in 2000. 
 And while this team lacks a defining star or a catchy nickname, it does have a definite sensibility that reverberated through a giddy and green crowd of 72,456, the largest in the history of the Final Four. 
 The Spartans came at UConn in the same way the emotion flowed from the city and the stands: in waves. A Michigan State team that prides itself on an everyman ethos had points from nearly every man, with 10 players scoring. Kalin Lucas led Michigan State with 21 points, and Raymar Morgan snapped out of a slump to score 18. But the most important number came from Michigan State's bench, which outscored Connecticut's, 33-7. 
 The Spartans ground down the taller and more talented Huskies with a relentless transition game. As Connecticut clanged free throws (21 of 33) and stood flatfooted while Michigan State stormed on fast break after fast break, it became apparent that the Spartans' heart and depth was simply overwhelming the Huskies. 
 ''I thought we did wear them down a little bit,'' Izzo said. ''I thought depth worked on our side.'' 
 From the other sideline, Connecticut Coach Jim Calhoun said it was clear that the Spartans were playing for something bigger. Calhoun said he would not be surprised if they won the national title. He said they looked like a different team from the one he had studied on tape. 
 ''They have a cause,'' Calhoun said. ''And anytime you have a cause, it's a great, great thing to rally around.''
 Connecticut (31-5) enters an off-season of uncertainty. The N.C.A.A. is looking into a report that a former team manager used illegal inducements to recruit two players after becoming an agent. Although there was speculation that Calhoun would retire if Connecticut won the national title, he said he would use his usual formula to determine whether to return next season. He will wait, he said, until the emotions of the loss lessen and decide later in the spring. 
 ''I love coaching,'' he said. ''I love being with kids. I like the competition.''
 The moment that epitomized Michigan State's dominance came with a little less than six minutes remaining. 
 Michigan State guard Durrell Summers streaked down the floor on a fast break and hammered a dunk over Connecticut's Stanley Robinson. The capacity crowd went wild, the game's signature play boosting the Spartans' lead to 10 points and seemingly demoralizing the Huskies. 
 Summers later provided the decider, an old-fashioned 3-point play on a layup with one minute remaining after a put-back dunk by Robinson had cut the Spartans' lead to 3. 
 ''Every time we made a run, they did something to counteract that,'' UConn guard A. J. Price said. 
 While Summers's dunk provided the night's highlight, one final flurry sealed the game. The Huskies cut the Spartans' lead to 6 points near the four-minute mark, their fans rising in unison to try to will Connecticut back in the game. But a 3-pointer by Lucas from the left wing increased the Spartans' lead to 9. Then a steal and a baseball pass by Walton found Morgan alone at halfcourt. He cruised to the hoop for an emphatic dunk that kicked off a Detroit block party.
 That was the lasting portrait of the game: Connecticut standing around while Michigan State streaked to the basket time after time. 
 The dunk set off yet another wave of emotion, and this stimulus package like none other will ring through Detroit for two more days. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the signature moment of Michigan State's victory over Connecticut, Durrell Summers dunked over Stanley Robinson to give the Spartans a 10-point lead with 5:50 left. Summers (10 points) helped Michigan State's bench outscore Connecticut's, 33-7. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY SHAMUS/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.SP1)
 Kemba Walker, center, and his Connecticut teammates wore down in the face of wave after wave of Michigan State players. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STREETER LECKA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.SP3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (74%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (98%); VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



189 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: The Past as Peep Show

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
Susan Dominus writes the Big City column for The Times.

 BODY:
THE FORBIDDEN APPLE
 A Century of Sex and Sin in New York City
 By Kat Long
 Illustrated. 287 pp. Ig Publishing. $18.95
 LICENTIOUS GOTHAM
 Erotic Publishing and Its Prosecution in Nineteenth-Century New York
 By Donna Dennis
 Illustrated. 386 pp.Harvard University Press. $29.95
 These days, pornographers, pundits and scientists are forever pondering what women want, but in 1913, at least, it was pretty clear: They wanted ''The Inside of the White Slave Traffic,'' a film depicting the sexual coercion of innocents into a life of brothels, and they weren't going to let a team of New York's finest get in their way. When the deputy police commissioner of New York brought six officers to the Park Theater to seize the film, the 500 or so women waiting to see the 9:30 screening nearly broke into a riot, waving their green tickets and making a mad dash for the door. The scene attracted several thousand protesters who joined the cause in sympathy, a crowd that dispersed only when the police brought in reinforcements. Never was a film purporting, in its own words, to ''teach a great moral lesson'' so ardently embraced by a group of young women. (The producers' argument: Learn from the mistakes of our protagonist to resist the seductive ways of that dark, handsome stranger.) 
 There's a great history of racy entertainment covering itself, if scantily, in a cloak of righteous education. Kat Long describes these protective measures, or ruses, in ''The Forbidden Apple: A Century of Sex and Sin in New York City,'' less a catalog of vice than an analysis of attempts to evade its suppression. Long promises at the outset that the book will demonstrate that ''the agents for good and evil, in New York especially, are symbiotic.'' 
 When it comes to illicit media, the agents for good and evil, even outside New York, are always symbiotic: pornography, in the experience of many moral crusaders, is like an infuriating weed that loves nothing more than a good pesticide, its strength only enhanced by efforts to tamp it down. But Long also chronicles the way that initiatives to eradicate vice only helped pave the way for its further evolution in the city. Try to eliminate drinking on Sunday by limiting it to hotels, as did the Raines Law of 1896, and suddenly every bar and saloon in Manhattan is putting up cheap dividers to create makeshift accommodations, ideal breeding grounds for prostitution, which thrived in the era of the so-called Raines Law hotels. Try to provide a place where working-class men can find a bathroom that isn't in a bar, and from that solution -- public restrooms -- will come another challenge: gay (semipublic) sex. Close down the Continental Baths, a glorious, early-'70s gay pick-up spot, and make way for Plato's Retreat, a heterosexual swinger's club in the same location in the basement of the Ansonia Hotel. 
 The sexual history of 20th-century New York, as written by Long, the co-author of the guidebook ''Sexy New York,'' has, at times, the feel of a whirlwind tour: Step up and see the sexually free flapper of the '20s rebelling in a post-World War I rejection of staid social values; see the burlesque theaters thrilling the Depression-era man who's down on his luck; see the pill liberate sex from reproduction. Along the way, the tour highlights some lesser-known figures in New York's sexual history, among them its premier peep show entrepreneur, Martin Hodas, and the young women who flocked to the city as military groupies during World War II and came to be known as the khaki whackies.
 In part because Long keeps the pace moving quickly, there isn't always time for some of the detail the reader might crave, even for non-prurient reasons. Beyond the bump and grind, what exactly did the fans of burlesque see in some of the many shows that so outraged censors? And who were its stars? Why not lavish a little less space on the nitty-gritty of legal maneuverings and a little more on the actual witty, bawdy lyrics that shocked audiences in Harlem clubs in the '20s? 
 In the late 19th century, peddlers were known to mislead buyers with books that promised great thrills with their titillating covers, only to hold, on the inside, puritanical tracts. Long's ''Forbidden Apple'' promises a century of sex and sin, but seekers of vivid portrayals of New York's sexual high life will have to be satisfied instead with a history that comes alive mostly in descriptions of the vain efforts to keep that high life down.
 Readers trying to imagine how the city's sexual culture might change in the new depressed economy might predict, based on the Depression-era trends that Long describes, a return to the safety of morality and religious values, a crackdown on whatever remaining illicit entertainment may linger in hidden corners of Times Square or along the West Side Highway. 
 But the aftershocks of the Panic of 1837 had an entirely different effect on attitudes toward sex, as described by Donna Dennis, a Rutgers law professor, in ''Licentious Gotham: Erotic Publishing and Its Prosecution in Nineteenth-Century New York.'' ''By the early 1840s,'' Dennis writes, ''a prolonged economic depression and widespread unemployment stemming from the Panic of 1837 helped unravel the old-line elites' monopoly on political power and usher in an age of mass party politics.'' A sign of the changing times, she argues, was the rise of flash weeklies that catered to proto-Maxim rakes who were sexually brash and often mingled with the demimonde. Anti-aristocratic in spirit (and usually run by people who mixed it up with the Tammany regulars), the flash papers not only published salacious gossip about members of high society, but generated income by blackmailing the same crowd (possibly the one approach the struggling newspaper industry isn't currently convening panels to consider).
 Dennis suggests that the flash papers could have gone on publishing suggestive material indefinitely, except that they made the mistake of including in some of their transgressive tales the names of the individuals involved. Some of the powerful figures they so relished exposing started filing suit in the name of the public good. Who knows? If the papers had kept the stories sufficiently vague, they might have flourished for at least another decade before getting bollixed up in the courts. Like Long, Dennis traces the ways in which provocative material was passed off as edifying, like the guides to the city's prostitutes that purported to steer unknowing rubes away from their clutches. And she also notes that prohibitions of one sort of racy material only led to another innovation, often more popular than the first. From closer restrictions on sexually explicit writing came the success, in the mid-19th century, of the novelist George Thompson, who combined graphically violent scenes set in urban dystopias with coy peekaboo references to sex. Thompson stopped short of describing those scenes but encouraged the reader to imagine them, while mocking the authorities for compelling him to draw the curtain.
 That Long begins her book where Dennis's ends--with the moral crusader Anthony Comstock all but eradicating the once-thriving illicit publishing industry in 19th-century New York -- is a testament (if any were needed) to the irrepressibility of pornography and its less graphic predecessors. Gov. David A. Paterson recently proposed that the state, in search of new revenue, tax Internet downloads of pornography, proof that the government may have reached a new level of appreciation of New York's porn industry -- if you can't beat it, you might as well use it to help balance the budget.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: An 1842 illustration from The Weekly Rake, one of New York's ''flash papers.'' (ILLUSTRATION: AMERICAN ANTIQUARIAN SOCIETY
 FROM ''LICENTIOUS GOTHAM'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); WOMEN (78%); PROSTITUTION (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); DRINKING PLACES (58%)

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ANTIQUARIAN SOCIETY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

TITLE: Forbidden Apple, The (Book); Licentious Gotham (Book); Forbidden Apple, The (Book); Licentious Gotham (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



190 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 2357 words

HEADLINE: Kicking Off

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE. 
Michael Sokolove is a contributing writer for the magazine. His most recent book is ''Warrior Girls,'' about the injury epidemic in girls' sports.

 BODY:
LATE IN THE SECOND HALF of a World Cup semifinal match against the United States in 2007, Marta Vieira da Silva, a Brazilian who is the best player in women's soccer -- and perhaps the most electrifying performer in the game, male or female -- caught up to a pass and controlled it about 20 yards from the American goal. The crowd inside the stadium in the Chinese city Hangzhou roared, as soccer fans do any time Marta is near the ball, even when she has no obvious path forward. With her back to the goal and a defender pressing her, Marta lifted the ball into the air with her right foot, then poked it with her left heel past the U.S. player, who responded by haplessly trying to grab her uniform. Marta pirouetted on by -- almost literally running a circle around her opponent -- dribbled around another defender (who stumbled and nearly fell) and shot the ball past the goalkeeper. 
 ''It's what she does -- she confuses you,'' Brandi Chastain, a former star on the U.S. national team, told me. ''You don't know whether to chase her or the ball.'' Earlier in the same game, Marta scored another goal after weaving through no fewer than six defenders. ''Most players, when they're under pressure from more than one defender, look to get rid of the ball as fast as they can,'' Chastain said, adding that Marta ''sees it as an opportunity to make something fabulous happen.''
 In each of the last three years, Marta, who is just 23, was named the female player of the year by FIFA, the world governing body of soccer. (Like many other Brazilian athletes, she goes by her first name.) She is the only woman to have placed a footprint alongside those of Pele and other greats outside the famed Estadio do Maracana in Rio de Janeiro. For the last five seasons she has played for a top team in Sweden, but early this year, she moved to Southern California to join the new Women's Professional Soccer league, which began play last week. (Marta's team, the Los Angeles Sol, plays the New York-area franchise, Sky Blue F.C., at the TD Bank Ballpark in Bridgewater, N.J., today.) In the game programs, Marta will be listed as a forward, a prosaic term that hardly seems to do justice to her speed, determination and creativity. Better to think of her as an escape artist -- both on the field and in the arc of her life.
 In late February, Marta joined players selected from each of the seven teams to model their new uniforms in New York. She walked down a runway at an events space in Chelsea, wearing the blue home jersey of the Los Angeles Sol, smiling shyly and looking as if she would have been a lot more comfortable with a ball at her feet. The next morning, she told me how, in a span of just a half-dozen years, she made the journey out of her remote town in the northeast of Brazil, where few girls even played soccer, to the pinnacle of her sport. ''I had to do all of it by myself,'' she said through a Portuguese interpreter. (She speaks Swedish fluently and, according to her new teammates, is rapidly picking up English.) ''There wasn't anybody for me to follow, or anyone to say to me, These are the steps you must take. First of all, I was almost always the only girl playing with boys in a small town. Some boys accepted me, some didn't. And my family had comments made to them. Brazil is still a very macho society, and sports are mainly for boys, so people would say to them: What is this girl doing? Why is she always out there in the soccer games with the boys?''
 Marta grew up in Dois Riachos (which means ''two little rivers''), a town of about 13,000, as the youngest of four children. Her father left the family not long after her birth, and she has no memory of him. Her mother worked for the local government. There was no organized soccer for girls, so at the age of 10 she joined the boys' team at her school. ''But even the boys' league was not that structured,'' Marta said. ''We trained a couple of times a week, but otherwise, we played on our own.''
 She played soccer on the town's narrow streets or in local parks and other open spaces, usually pickup games involving just a handful of players. Because Dois Riachos is in an arid region, some of the bigger games were played on sandy river bottoms, which are dry for all but a couple of months a year.
 Soccer is a sport open to those of small stature, but even by her game's standards, Marta is short and slight compared with most of the other top women players. She is officially listed at 5-foot-4 (which seems charitable by at least an inch) and weighs about 120 pounds. Her feet are the tiniest I have ever seen on any elite adult athlete except a female gymnast -- she wears size 41/2 soccer shoes. When she was 14, an older cousin, a man who was a good local player himself, told her that he had a friend in Rio de Janeiro who knew someone connected to one of the top club teams for girls -- a team that operated as a sort of feeder program for the Brazilian women's national team. He thought he could get her a tryout.
 ''That was my dream,'' Marta said. ''So I had no hesitation about saying yes. I didn't know there was such a thing as professional soccer, but I knew that Brazil had a women's team that competed against other countries, and I wanted to be on that team.''
 She took a bus to Rio, where she stayed with family friends for four days, waiting for her audition. I asked how long the bus ride took. ''Three days,'' she said, matter of factly. ''We slept on the bus. It made stops for us to eat, and there were also places we could get off and take a shower.''
 As far as she knew, no one outside her town had heard of her soccer abilities. If she hadn't shown up in Rio, no one would have asked why Marta wasn't being evaluated. ''There's not much structure for girls' soccer except maybe in Rio and Sao Paulo,'' she explained. ''If you know where to go, they'll give you a chance, and you either make it or you don't.''
 The tryout was just one day. ''If I had not made the team,'' she said, ''I would have had to go home.'' But she did make it and has never gone home to live, only returning to Dois Riachos for short visits. She stopped going to high school after she was elevated to a high-level team that played abroad frequently. ''By now, I've lived in many places,'' she told me. ''I feel like the world is educating me.''
 IT HAS BEEN ALMOST A DECADE since the U.S. women's soccer team defeated China in the finals of the 1999 World Cup, prevailing on penalty kicks after a full game and two overtime periods of tense, scoreless play. The riveting competition, witnessed by more than 90,000 spectators at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif., with another 40 million viewers in the United States watching on television, came at the end of a long tournament, but it seemed like the beginning of something -- a new era in which more Americans might accept elite women's sport as entertainment and more of the best female athletes might be able to earn livelihoods as professionals.
 The Women's United Soccer Association, a league founded six months after that championship game, prominently featured Chastain, Mia Hamm, Julie Foudy, Kristine Lilly and the rest of the skilled, charismatic women of the championship U.S. squad. The first games were played in April 2001, but the league folded after losing an estimated $100 million in just three seasons -- a terrible letdown for advocates of women's sports and for the players themselves. W.P.S. is doing things differently. It will, first off, be smaller in scale (a strategy chosen long before the economy's downturn). Most of the games will take place in small facilities, some seating as few as 5,000 fans, rather than in big football stadiums. Players will make an average of about $32,000 for the six-month season, although some U.S. national-team members and top international players -- Marta, most notably -- will earn considerably more. Tickets will cost as little as $10 a game.
 The W.U.S.A. sometimes seemed as much a cause as a business venture, and in that regard, too, the new league has learned a lesson. It will not market virtue, at least not overtly. ''I believe what we are doing in this league will serve the cause of women and women's sports,'' Rachel Epstein, the league's marketing director, told me. ''But it's not why we're doing it, and we have not come close to that as a pillar of our brand and don't really have to. That pioneering spirit -- we already own it. It's inherent.''
 Epstein said the phrase that W.P.S. league marketers want to associate with is ''world class,'' signifying that its athletes are elite by any measure, and should not be viewed just through the prism of women's sports. Her model is professional tennis: she said she found research indicating that 80 percent of the fans of male tennis are also fans of the women's game. Of course, to convincingly sell the league as world class, the league needed Marta, and it was not easy to get her. She had to be persuaded that the world's best women players were congregating in the U.S. -- with a handful of exceptions, they are -- and had to be induced to leave her home in Umea, a center of education and research in the north of Sweden, closer to the Arctic Circle than to Stockholm.
 Her Brazil-based agent, Fabiano Farah, represents some of the world's best players, including Ronaldo, a longtime star on the Brazilian men's team. ''I'm sure a lot of people thought it was obvious she would want to come to the U.S.,'' he told me. ''But she played for a strong team and had a life she loved.''
 Farah wanted her placed in Los Angeles, where the W.P.S. franchise is owned in part by the giant entertainment-and-sports conglomerate AEG, which has a stake in dozens of teams and sports facilities around the world. The Sol practices and will play its home games at the AEG-owned Home Depot Center in Carson, Calif., a sprawling complex that exists as a sort of parallel universe within the United States, where professional soccer matters deeply. It is home to two teams in men's Major League Soccer -- Chivas USA and the L.A. Galaxy (which David Beckham is expected to return to in July, after a stint with A.C. Milan) -- and serves as the main training site for the U.S. men's and women's national teams.
 Neither the Sol nor Marta's agent will comment on her compensation, which published reports put as high as $1.5 million over three years. All Farah would say is that he wanted her to be in a ''big consumer market'' and that ''she only decided to leave Sweden after I could say to her, 'Marta, this is real.' ''
 WHEN MARTA BEGAN TRAINING with the Sol in Carson early last month, she was far from the only world-class player on the field. Her new teammates included Aly Wagner and Stephanie Cox, veterans of U.S. national teams; the international stars Han Duan of China and Aya Miyama of Japan; and numerous top players from the U.S. collegiate ranks. But Marta moved differently. She glided -- with speed. When she ran sprints over a series of hurdles, the Sol coach, Abner Rogers, looked on with his assistants and laughed. ''I don't think she knew why we were laughing,'' he said, ''but it was out of amazement. She got her knees so high. Her form was so perfect and she was so fast, it was just extraordinary to see.''
 It was with the ball, though, that Marta really stood out. Every part of her body seems trained to touch it -- stop it, spin it, push it through some small space or set it up, just so, to blast it by a goalkeeper.
 In U.S. soccer circles, there is an ongoing discussion about how American players, from a young age, are overcoached and coddled. They practice only under a coach's supervision, and games take place as parents hover with lovingly cut orange slices and juice boxes. The selection of talent for top U.S. teams, from the youth level all the way up to the senior national squads, tends to emphasize speed, strength and aggression over great technical skill or improvisational ability. Marta will present a strong visual image of what can happen with less coaching and a childhood spent learning to pick up the bounces and spin of a soccer ball on nearly every imaginable surface except a groomed field.
 Charlie Naimo, the Sol general manager, is eager for his star to be an ambassador for a new style of play -- and perhaps new ways of thinking. ''What we're hoping,'' he said, ''is that having Marta here and people watching her play is going to pose the question: Why? Why is she who she is? Well, it's kind of obvious. When she was 5 years old, she was out on the street all day playing.''
 Mia Hamm's silhouette graces the official logo of W.P.S., and comparisons between the revered U.S. star, now retired, and Marta, are inevitable. Chastain, who at 40 is playing for San Jose in the new league, said: ''Mia was the greatest goal scorer in the world. Marta is a great goal scorer, too. But I don't think that's what possesses her as a soccer player. What possesses her is her relationship with the ball, the way she can say to you, 'I'm going to face you up and scare you.' ''
 Marta is also, clearly, accustomed to being a star. Team personnel tend to buzz around her, in case she has any needs. She has been driving on the L.A. freeways -- ''I drove in Rio,'' she told me, ''and that's crazy, so why not here?'' -- but when she felt she needed help negotiating the supermarket on a Sunday, she called someone at the Sol for assistance. About a third of her team lives together in a big house in Beverly Hills, but Marta is sharing a two-bedroom apartment in Redondo Beach, overlooking the Pacific, with Johanna Frisk, a teammate from Sweden who was signed by the Sol.
 Marta and I talked one day after one of her practices in Carson. I had been thinking about her three-day bus ride from Dois Riachos to Rio, and just in general about a girl who leaves home at 14 to pursue a dream and never returns. I asked if she found any of it frightening, a question she seemed to find surprising. ''Why would I be scared?'' she said. ''It was in my character to want to achieve my goal, and that was where my goal was. So I had to go there.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEWEY NICKS)(pg. MM22)
(pg. MM23)
 Hang Time: Aly Wagner, Marta and Stephanie Cox of the Los Angeles Sol. Marta developed her game of speed, determination and creativity on narrow streets and dry riverbeds in northeast Brazil.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DEWEY NICKS 24 FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); ATHLETES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (94%); CHINA (73%); SWEDEN (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



191 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Songs To Mock And to Love

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
IF the jukebox musical and the 1980s rock ballad are not direct siblings, they must surely share a common ancestor. Both tend to be bombastic and demand un-self-consciousness from their performers; both attract fans who mask their sincere affection behind a layer of irony. Both are easy punching bags for critics in their respective genres, and nobody is going to argue that Broadway needs more of them. 
 So that's a lot of people who might be appalled by the idea of ''Rock of Ages,'' an unrepentant jukebox musical that opens on Tuesday at the Brooks Atkinson Theater. With a libretto assembled from more than two dozen lighter-waving rock anthems of the Reagan era, from Bon Jovi's ''Wanted Dead or Alive'' to Night Ranger's ''Sister Christian,'' the production arrives on Broadway with a lot of baggage, but also a charmed history. The show has already made it farther than anyone -- including its creators -- expected. And if ''Rock of Ages'' goes further still, it will be because of the artists whose relentlessly infectious songs would seem to be the biggest strike against it. 
 ''My one luxury,'' said its book writer, Chris D'Arienzo, ''is that nobody has a real preciousness about Warrant or Styx.'' 
 Like the people in his script Mr. D'Arienzo, 36, was one more transplant to Los Angeles who went to that city in search of stardom -- in his case, from the small farming town of Paw Paw, Mich., where his first car was a diesel truck, and his neighbors included Jerry Mitchell, the future Tony Award-winning choreographer. 
 Growing up in the 1980s Mr. D'Arienzo was more a fan of punk rock and New Romantic bands than hair metal acts. ''I actually tried to avoid that stuff,'' he said, ''because it was the music of the people that wanted to throw me into a locker.'' But, as in most show business tales, Hollywood got him to change his mind. 
 In 2004 Mr. D'Arienzo was recruited by the producers Matthew Weaver and Carl Levin, who had successfully sold Universal Pictures an idea for a rock musical set in the 1980s, only to see the concept languish in development. 
 On a fateful drive Mr. Weaver and Mr. Levin happened to hear the 1981 power ballad ''Don't Stop Believing'' by the band Journey and concluded that it would be just as potent on a stage as on their car radio. They rapidly put together a CD of like-minded rock songs and passed it to the director Kristin Hanggi to see if there was a show in there somewhere.
 Ms. Hanggi, who was finishing the Off Broadway run of the pop musical ''Bare,'' agreed that there was. ''The songs were organically telling their own stories, about culturally what rock 'n' roll means to us and having permission to break free,'' she said. ''We knew that it would be self-aware, winking at the audience and including the audience inside the joke.''
 Mr. D'Arienzo was persuaded too. ''When I really looked back on the most important, nostalgic parts of my adolescence, they were defined by these songs that happened to be playing at the dance or in the car.''
 In meetings at various Sunset Strip institutions, from rock clubs to coffee bars, Ms. Hanggi and Mr. D'Arienzo sketched out the show, about an ensemble of characters at a fictitious West Hollywood club called the Bourbon Room. There would be an aspiring rock guitarist and an aspiring actress who fall in love, a seduction scene set to Foreigner's ''I Want to Know What Love Is'' and a dance number to the tune of REO Speedwagon's ''Can't Fight This Feeling,'' inspired by the dream ballet in ''Oklahoma!''
 ( ''We're rock music nerds,'' Ms. Hanggi said. ''But do I know every word of 'Company'? Yes.'')
 In 2005 a nascent version of ''Rock of Ages'' was performed at King King, a club on Hollywood Boulevard in Los Angeles, followed in 2006 by runs at Vanguard, a nearby club, and on a soundstage at Ren-Mar Studios in Hollywood. Its cast members variously included Laura Bell Bundy (of Broadway's ''Hairspray'' and ''Legally Blonde''), James Snyder (Broadway's ''Cry-Baby'') and the pop singer Katharine McPhee. 
 Reviews were occasionally brutal -- Backstage called it ''possibly the worst theatrical production in the last several years'' -- but receipts were promising enough that in May 2006 its producers transferred it to Las Vegas for a weeklong run at the Flamingo.
 That proved to be a mistake: ''It was like performing for the cast of 'Cocoon,' '' Mr. Weaver said. Undeterred, the show moved to New York , where, with a cast anchored by the ''American Idol'' contestant Constantine Maroulis, it played Off Broadway from October through early January at New World Stages. 
 As usual, reviews varied. But the 499-seat theater was often sold out, attracting what producers said were ticket buyers seeking a boisterous concert experience rather than a genteel evening at the theater. 
 When movie rights were sold in December to New Line Cinema (the studio that produced the film adaptation of the ''Hairspray'' musical), a Broadway transfer for ''Rock of Ages'' became inevitable. Even in a barren economic environment the producers said they have encountered little difficulty capitalizing their Broadway production, whose initial budget they placed at $7 million.
 This fund-raising success, they said, was due partly to the show's subject matter, which attracted nontraditional investors. But they also acknowledged that their inexperience on Broadway made them oblivious to warning signs that might have discouraged more seasoned producers.
 ''We literally have horse blinders on,'' said Scott Prisand, who is Mr. Weaver's partner in the production company Corner Store Entertainment. ''In our little world everything is awesome.''
 As opening night approaches for the Broadway transfer, which stars Mr. Maroulis, Amy Spanger (''Kiss Me, Kate'') and James Carpinello (Broadway's ''Saturday Night Fever''), the producers have done all they can to play up its populist appeal: they have capped ticket prices at $99 and hired servers to provide drinks during the show.
 Still, the creators understand that it will take much more than $10 cocktails to win over those theatergoers who are ready to consign the show to the dustbin of jukebox musical history, alongside ''All Shook Up,'' ''Good Vibrations'' and many others.
 ''I totally walk around town with my tail between my legs,'' Mr. D'Arienzo said. ''I totally get that people would, at first, find this to be a repellant notion. But that's what I loved about the show.''
 On the one hand, he acknowledged, a show whose first act concludes with its entire cast singing Whitesnake's ''Here I Go Again'' would seem to have different ambitions from, say, ''West Side Story.'' 
 Then again, he said: ''If I write something so ridiculous, maybe they'll never make another jukebox musical again. Maybe that's good too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitchell Jarvis, center, in the musical ''Rock of Ages'' at the Brooks Atkinson Theater.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); THEATER (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (73%); WRITERS (65%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PICTURES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



192 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: Comedy Is Hard, But Not For Him

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 AT the age of 10 Shawn Levy, doing community theater in his native Montreal, got his first big laugh.
 It felt good.
 So Mr. Levy ditched the script to improvise for a while. And the audience kept laughing, even if his horrified drama coach did not.
 ''I was chastened. But completely smitten,'' Mr. Levy said recently of the experience, and of the tongue lashing that followed. 
 Such was the moment when a director of major screen comedies -- his next is ''Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian'' -- was born. 
 Now 40, Mr. Levy is one of only about a dozen Hollywood directors to have made a live-action comedy that crashed through barriers of age, class and audience fragmentation to take in more than $200 million at the domestic box office. In his case it was with his 2006 after-hours romp ''Night at the Museum,'' which made $251 million in domestic sales and $324 million in other countries. 
 The exclusiveness of the club is a reminder that creating successful movies based on superheroes, science fiction and even computer-generated fantasy is nothing compared with the challenge of getting everybody to laugh at the same time.
 And to talk with Mr. Levy and some of his allies is to realize that big, inclusive comedies -- those with a real shot at universal appeal -- are an exercise more complex than the arch humor of a ''Superbad,'' or the druggy in-jokes of a ''Pineapple Express,'' both of which reflect the hip but narrower approach of Hollywood's reigning comic king, Judd Apatow.
 The most successful in the genre, like ''Home Alone,'' ''Meet the Fockers,'' or ''Ghostbusters'' have wrapped occasionally sharp-edged physical humor, notable star performances and more than a few eye-catching special effects around a warm, forgiving approach to life and laughter. But it has been six years since a family comedy swept the Memorial Day box office, when ''Bruce Almighty,'' which starred Jim Carrey, did in 2003. 
 A tepid reception for the sequel, ''Evan Almighty,'' which starred Steve Carell in June 2007, was a reminder that even a comedy that seems to have all the elements cannot be sure of the audience. As Tom Rothman, co-chairman of Fox Filmed Entertainment, whose 20th Century Fox unit is set to release ''Battle of the Smithsonian'' on May 22, put it, ''The old saying is true: dying is easy, comedy is hard.'' 
 Stretched on a couch in his bungalow on the Fox lot last month, Mr. Levy was still getting giggles out of his latest movie. He was watching after a day spent mostly with the film's composer, Alan Silvestri, who works in a silver Airstream trailer that is parked just outside the door.
 While scoring, Mr. Levy, whip thin, had missed lunch. So he nibbled from a plate of cheese, fruit and crackers. 
 Mostly, though, he was laughing. Belly laughs. Chuckles. An occasional guffaw, as he watched the entire 104 minutes of ''Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian,'' a movie he had seen many dozens of times.
 ''Remind me to tell you about the opening sequence,'' Mr. Levy whispered, over a first scene in which all the familiars from ''Night at the Museum'' -- Sacajawea, Jedediah, Octavius, Attila the Hun -- are packed into crates for shipment from their home at the American Museum of Natural History in New York to what is supposed to be very cold storage at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
 That first sequence, Mr. Levy later explained, simply came to him -- ''frame for frame,'' he said -- in late 2006, as the first movie was opening to a healthy $30.4 million at the box office.
 At the time it was far from clear that ''Night at the Museum'' would have a sequel. Fantasy hits like ''Harry Potter'' and ''Lord of the Ring'' are virtually assured of a repeat audience because they come from works with a large, built-in fan base. 
 But the biggest comedy hits, whether based on a lesser-known book like ''Night at the Museum'' or an original idea, like ''Home Alone,'' have often taken both the industry and the audience by surprise. Their unexpected ability to move people is often rooted in a childish sense of awe at screen possibilities. It worked that way with ''Ghostbusters,'' ''Bruce Almighty'' and ''How the Grinch Stole Christmas'' -- all films that, like Mr. Levy's, rely on the sort of make-believe elements that anchor a parallel but very different genre, the animated films of a DreamWorks or Pixar. 
 ''They have this deep core in some need for wish fulfillment that's in us from a very young age,'' said John Hamburg, who has brought several very successful comedies to the screen. ''It's a brain thing.''
 Mr. Hamburg has worked both sides of the comedy street. He was the director and a writer of the R-rated ''I Love You, Man.'' But he was also among the writers who contributed to ''Meet the Fockers'' and the original ''Night at the Museum.''
 Somewhere along the line he nicknamed Mr. Levy ''El Jefe'' -- ''The Chief'' -- of the family film. (The really big comedies have almost all been family friendly, and only two, ''The Wedding Crashers'' and ''Beverly Hills Cop,'' were rated R.) The nickname has stuck among a loose circuit of comic practitioners who increasingly recognize that Mr. Levy's peculiar blend of wonder and sophistication may hold a key to the broadest sort of laughs.
 Having started as a child actor, Mr. Levy went on to study drama at Yale, where he was admitted at the age of 16. There he directed ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' with Paul Giamatti, who remains a friend.
 Mr. Levy first worked in Hollywood as an actor as one of Liberace's lovers in a CBS movie and appearances on ''Beverly Hills 90210.'' Suspecting that his on-screen career had hit a wall, he attended film school at the University of Southern California, where, in 1994, he directed a comic short, ''Broken Record,'' about two 13-year-olds who get married to win a place in the Guinness Book of World Records.
 ''I was mocked by my classmates for making a heartfelt comedy'' at a time when Quentin Tarantino and his blood fests were the rage, he said. But executives and producers responded, and Mr. Levy soon became known as ''The Kid Guy'' for his work as a director with Nickelodeon and the Disney Channel. He tried his hand at adult fare with ''Just Married,'' starring Ashton Kutcher and Brittany Murphy, and ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' and ''The Pink Panther,'' both with Steve Martin.
 For more than a year Mr. Levy resisted entreaties to direct ''Night at the Museum,'' a project that Fox had owned for a decade, but finally agreed after reading a draft of the script that included some revisions by Scott Frank, now a regular collaborator. ''He made me see that it was really a father-son story,'' Mr. Levy said. ''I saw the soft center.''
 Of the directors who have made blockbuster comedies, only two have done it more than once: Jay Roach, with ''Meet the Fockers,'' and a pair of Austin Powers movies, and Chris Columbus with ''Home Alone'' (which sent a comedy record with $286 million in ticket sales after opening in 1990) and then ''Mrs. Doubtfire.''
 Certain stars seemed to be aligned for Mr. Levy to join that club. In the largest of contexts, the pop cultural pendulum has been swinging to a sweeter, funnier place, with family-friendly comedies like ''Marley & Me,'' and ''Paul Blart: Mall Cop,'' doing well in a drab economy, a sign that we might see a return to years like 1980, when unemployment was high, and 7 of the Top 10 box-office hits were comedies, including ''9 to 5,'' ''Stir Crazy'' and ''Airplane!''
 Certainly ''Smithsonian'' does not stray too far from a key element -- basic human warmth -- that the most successful comedies share. Cowboys and critters aside, the ''Night at the Museum'' movies are much the same. At bottom the first is about a divorced father (Ben Stiller) who wins back the respect of his doubting son. In the second Mr. Stiller's character, with a hand from that son, must regain the trust of a museum full of creatures he abandoned in pursuit of material success. Among all the gags, one character after another does his bit to help the wayward father figure out what he truly loves in life, all of them. 
 But to deliver its lesson in a slick, funny package that plays to all ages and around the globe is a complicated bit of work.
 Mr. Stiller insisted that any sequel had to do things, in a physical sense, that the first picture did not. ''I couldn't go through the whole movie yelling 'Ooh, aah,' while I'm running away from stuff,'' he said, speaking by telephone about something that audiences already saw in the first film. 
 One significant change, Mr. Stiller said, was the addition of villainy. In the new film a lispy Hank Azaria plays Kah Mun Rah, an Egyptian prince who finds limitless potential in a 19-museum complex whose exhibits range from Ivan the Terrible to Oscar the Grouch. The Smithsonian setting also allows Mr. Stiller to step in and out of an Eisenstaedt photo. . 
 But the magic in major comedies has depended heavily on a director's ability to locate the precise appeal of an established star like Eddie Murphy, Will Smith or Mike Myers. Because Mr. Stiller's comedy emerges mostly in exchanges with others, the challenge was not to strand him in a hallway with a flashlight alone for too long. 
 In the new film he is paired with Amy Adams, who plays a slangy, wise-cracking Amelia Earhart (''We've been jimmy-jacked!'' she says, spouting words that haven't been used in decades, if ever) who gives adults a romantic subplot, while kids can watch Mr. Stiller fight monkeys.
 ''We spent most of our time on Amelia Earhart,'' Mr. Frank said of script-polishing sessions that took place mostly in a room with Mr. Levy. ''Really we were just trying to make ourselves happy,'' he said.
 As the movie grew -- it cost about $115 million, with some help from Canadian tax breaks -- other actors, including Christopher Guest and Bill Hader dropped in for a turn. Robin Williams, Ricky Gervais, Steve Coogan and Owen Wilson are all back.
 Jonah Hill, the heavyset kid from ''Superbad,'' shows up as a hostile security guard. It was originally written as a two-page sequence but turned into an elaborate ballet involving the two actors and a flashlight -- all improvised, with the director's encouragement. 
 ''What was that?'' the young Mr. Levy's drama coach had demanded to know, when he similarly went off script.
 But watching his actors mix it up on a monitor last month, Mr. Levy just laughed.
 ''He's the most genuinely excited director I've ever been around,'' Mr. Hill said. ''He seems excited all the time.''
 But for Mr. Levy the first rule of big comedy is fun. ''It's about doing what you love, with people you love, for the fun of it,'' he said.
 ''That's the point.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Ben Stiller in ''Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian''
middle, Amy Adams as Amelia Earhart
and, right, the director Shawn Levy.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOANE GREGORY/20TH CENTURY FOX)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY 20TH CENTURY FOX/EVERETT COLLECTION)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBIA PICTURES/EVERETT COLLECTION)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBIA/TRISTAR)(pg. AR16) CHART: ''Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian'' has a chance to join the club of live-action comedies that have pulled in more than $200 million at the domestic box office -- a list, by the way, that includes the original ''Night at the Museum.'' (SOURCE: BOX OFFICE MOJO)(pg. AR16) Chart details grosses for films. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); COMEDY FILMS (75%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (74%); MOVIE REVENUES (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (72%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%)

PERSON: BEN STILLER (55%); JIM CARREY (54%); STEVE CARELL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



193 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: When Nest Eggs Change Colors

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
FOR as long as 401(k) accounts have been around, investors have generally stuffed them with stocks, while bond and cash holdings have been relatively sparse.
 Yet for the first time since Hewitt Associates began tracking 401(k) accounts in 1997, American workers in February held less than half of their 401(k) money in stocks. 
 Instead, most of their nest eggs now sit in fixed-income and cash instruments, including stable-value, bond and money market funds, according to Hewitt, the employee benefits consulting firm. The proportion of 401(k) money in stocks fell to slightly less than 48 percent in February, down from 53 percent at the start of the year and 69 percent in 2007. 
 The shift reflects the shocking stock market losses that began in 2007 and continued at the start of this year. ''People don't want to be owners anymore; they want to be loaners,'' said Mike Scarborough, president of Scarborough Capital Management, an investment advisory business in Annapolis, Md., that specializes in 401(k) clients. 
 Professional money managers have also begun to favor fixed-income holdings, according to a separate report released last month by Russell Investments. It showed that the professionals were more bullish about corporate investment-grade and high-yield bonds than about domestic or foreign equities. 
 Could these reports be signaling that the bulk of investors have finally thrown in the towel on stocks? There's an old saw on Wall Street that a new bull market can't begin until most investors ''capitulate,'' the market hits bottom, and the smart money then starts bidding stocks higher again. 
 The evidence, however, isn't entirely clear. 
 Many investors are certainly making their portfolios more conservative. For example, a vast majority -- 78 percent -- of the 401(k) assets that were removed from stocks in February went into guaranteed investment contracts or stable-value funds, which invest in bonds and bondlike instruments that are insured against losses by an insurance company. 
 Only about a third of 401(k) plans offer cash-like investment options such as money market funds, so ''stable value is the most conservative asset class in about two-thirds of plans,'' said Pamela M. Hess, Hewitt's director of retirement research.
 But Ms. Hess noted that while workers have been shifting more money than usual in their 401(k)'s, the total that was moved in February still amounts to just 6 percent of all assets in the plans. 
 And 57 percent of new contributions being made into these retirement accounts are still being directed into stocks. Though that's down from 68 percent a year ago, it's still a majority. ''Employee sentiment doesn't seem to be as bad as their asset allocation would lead you to believe,'' Ms. Hess said. 
 So how can one explain the overall drop in stock exposure? 
 In a word, inertia. As most investors left their accounts untouched, and as the Standard & Poor's 500 index of blue-chip stocks tumbled more than 18 percent in the first two months of the year (after falling more than 38 percent in 2008), the equity stake in these accounts contracted with the market. 
 By not routinely rebalancing their portfolios -- resetting them back to a desired mix of stocks and bonds at least once a year -- investors are setting themselves up for failure, Mr. Scarborough said. ''People are making short-term decisions with very long-term money,'' he said.
 ''In all probability, the only time they're going to feel comfortable moving that money back into equities is going to be at the wrong time, after it's too late.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Scarborough noted that equity balances in 401(k)'s fell to less than 50 percent at the end of February. Since then, though, the S.& P. 500 has surged nearly 15 percent. 
 As far as professional investors go, the evidence is ambiguous. While the Russell survey found that more than two-thirds of money managers were bullish on corporate bonds, it also showed that 76 percent were bearish on Treasury bonds.
 ''While the attraction to bonds last year was all about safety, what we're seeing now is about seeking returns,'' said Erik Ristuben, Russell's chief investment officer for North America.
 He notes that money managers are trying to take advantage of immense pessimism in the bond market -- pessimism that has driven down corporate bond prices to a level that implies that the economy is as bad as it was in the Great Depression. 
 ''What is it that Warren Buffett says -- be fearful when others are greedy and greedy when others are fearful?'' Well that's what investors are doing when it comes to corporate bonds, Mr. Ristuben said. 
 That's great news for the debt market and corporate bonds. Unfortunately, the equity market hasn't experienced this same level of fear and capitulation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); BONDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (95%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (95%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%) MARYLAND USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



194 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; OUT-BOX; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 134 words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The five most e-mailed articles from nytimes.com/sports for March 28 to April 3.
 1. CLIMBER STILL SEEKS LARGER MEANING IN HIS EPIC ESCAPE Profile of Aron Ralston, six years after he cut off his hand to free himself from a boulder. 
 (Published March 31)
 2. VOICE OF YANKEE STADIUM MAY BE DONE The ailing Bob Sheppard, 98, will miss opening day and may retire. (April 2)
 3. IT'S GOING, GOING ... DID YOU SEE WHERE IT WENT? A wall obstructs the view from some center-field bleacher seats at the new Yankee Stadium. (April 1)
 4. CLASSIC BOBBY VALENTINE: WAITING FOR A CALL Now managing in Japan, he may be a good fit to coach the United States in the 2013 World Baseball Classic. (March 29)
 5. A LONGTIME RACING TOWN SHIFTS ITS 
 Focus The recession has hastened the decline of Martinsville, Va. (March 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); JAPAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



195 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: A Raucous Homecoming for Rock's Hall of Fame

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame celebrated a raucous homecoming here on Saturday night, as Jeff Beck, Metallica, Run-DMC, Bobby Womack and Little Anthony and the Imperials were inducted to the sounds of blasting guitars and lusty roars. 
 For only the second time in their 24-year history, the inductions were held in Cleveland, which has been home to the hall of fame's museum since 1995. The show was opened up to the public for the first time, with thousands of shouting, fist-pumping fans lining the balconies of the Public Auditorium here. Perhaps as a result, a streak of populism ran through the speeches. 
 ''Rock 'n' roll is about possibilities and about dreams,'' said Lars Ulrich, the drummer of Metallica, who accepted the award with both current and former band mates. ''Anything is possible if you just have the guts to believe it.''
 As in previous years, the ceremony highlighted giants of classic rock and pop. Mr. Beck was inducted by Jimmy Page, with whom he had been inducted in 1992 as a member of the Yardbirds. (Mr. Page, of course, is also a double-inductee, with Led Zeppelin.) 
 Over the years, the inductees have become more diverse, expanding from the likes of Chuck Berry, Elvis Presley and James Brown in the earliest ceremonies to include metal, punk and rap. Metallica held a commanding position as the night's closing act, reuniting with their former bassist, Jason Newsted -- the current bassist, Robert Trujillo, also performed -- in pummeling classics like ''Master of Puppets.''
 Run-DMC became only the second hip-hop act to be inducted, after Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five two years ago. Yet as hip-hop ages alongside rock, and the stars of its golden age begin to be enshrined, the genre's rituals and myths seem more like those of rock. Young rappers and D.J.'s strive noisily to define themselves, like any garage band. Ambition is unlimited.
 ''Two turntables and a microphone,'' Eminem said as he inducted Run-DMC, dressed in that group's uniform of a black leather jacket and black hat. ''That's all it took to change the world.''
 Also inducted were Wanda Jackson, a rockabilly and country singer from Oklahoma who dated Elvis Presley when both were just beginning their careers; she was honored as an early influence. And two of Presley's early band mates, the drummer D. J. Fontana, 78, and the bassist Bill Black, who died in 1965, were honored as sidemen. 
 Among those she thanked in her acceptance speech, Ms. Jackson singled out Elvis Costello for lobbying to get her inducted. ''Another Elvis in my life,'' she said.
 Spooner Oldham, 65, a keyboardist ubiquitous in 1960s soul, was also named as a sideman. And another lesser-known musician racked up his second induction: Sammy Strain, with Little Anthony, was inducted four years ago as part of the O'Jays. Artists are eligible for nomination 25 years after the release of their first record.
 The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, a complex on the shores of Lake Erie designed by I. M. Pei, has become a major tourist attraction. The museum says it draws an international clientele that contributes $100 million to the local economy each year.
 The ceremony was held not at the museum but in a place seemingly antithetical to the spirit of rock 'n' roll: the Public Auditorium, a 1920s Beaux-Arts landmark nearby. And the record executives and celebrities on the floor wore tuxedos and gowns during their dinner. 
 But there was plenty of noise from the balcony. The 5,800 tickets for those seats had quickly sold out, a museum spokesman said. The event was also broadcast live on Fuse TV, a music video cable channel.
 The crowd erupted with hometown pride for Mr. Womack, the Cleveland-born singer and songwriter, best known to most rock fans as the co-writer of ''It's All Over Now,'' one of the Rolling Stones' earliest hits -- although the first song he played, ''Across 110th Street,'' is about Harlem.
 Eminem commented on the incongruity of iconoclastic musicians being enshrined into a canon, a concept that still strikes many as strange, 24 years in. He referred to the storyline for Run-DMC's video for ''Kings of Rock'' in 1985, saying: ''The group set themselves up as the gatecrashers of popular music by forcing their way into a museum very similar to the one we're inducting them into tonight. Run-DMC were told in the video that they didn't belong in a rock 'n' roll museum, and 25 years later, man, here we are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The rappers Joseph Simmons, Eminem and Darryl McDaniels at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony on Saturday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN LOVEKIN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); RAP MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); COUNTRY MUSIC (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



196 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: The Lines A German Won't Cross

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
-- A dingy line of red tile runs across the otherwise brown floor of the men's changing room at the public swimming pool in my Berlin neighborhood. It tells you where to take your shoes off and, in the meantime, a fair amount about German thinking.
 As their eyes alight on the small sign that goes with it, which reads ''barefoot zone'' in German, grown men freeze as though they have hit a force field, or had an electric shock administered for being foolish enough to try to pass it still shod. But I can not say what the repercussions would be. This being Germany, I have never seen anyone wearing shoes on the far side of the line and certainly would not risk it myself.
 Such strict obedience is all the more impressive when you realize that the red line's ruthless effectiveness comes with no staff members watching over it, no video camera in evidence, nor, as far I am aware, even any electric shocks. Yet I am certain that in a changing room in Paris, much less Rome, the narrow little line's authority would be nonexistent, a half-hearted suggestion or maybe just a joke. 
 I thought of that dull line of tile as American policy makers tried last week to persuade the German government to cross a psychological threshold, and break fiscal discipline to spend their way out of recession.
 In most daily interactions, the Germans do not need anyone to enforce their rules. They follow them -- and remind one another to follow them through impromptu lectures that are often heated -- because they are raised to know that is what they are supposed to do. 
 What the Germans call Ordnung (the usual translation is ''order,'' but it is a much broader concept) is the unwritten road map of one society's concerted effort to permanently banish the instability and violence that have marked its history. That sense of insecurity includes Germany's forced division in the cold war, the Nazi era and the hyperinflation of the 1920s, but it also stretches at least as far back as the Thirty Years' War in the 17th century, which decimated much of the German territories and population, and was a formative trauma.
 The response has been to develop a national knack for sticking to the program, not just in specific areas, but in most aspects of life. The autobahn is more than just a highway with stretches where you can drive as fast as you want; it is also a marvel of self-organization. Old Fiats chug along in the right lane, while newer Volkswagens cruise the middle one, allowing sparkling Porsches to zoom by in terrifying blurs on the left. Everyone is in their assigned places, except for the fact that places have not been assigned.
 More endearing to me are earnest Teutonic attempts to be laid back, as when a young would-be tough at a local basketball court -- mistaking Berlin's Volkspark Friedrichshain for upper Manhattan's Rucker Park circa 1970 -- boasted that I had better brace myself for the playground game, because ''in street ball, there are no rules.'' He then proceeded to enumerate carefully and politely which rules were ignored (e.g., three seconds in the lane), which were laxly enforced (non-shooting fouls) and which were still obeyed (traveling). 
 A German friend disagreed with my broadest stereotyping, pointing to the profusion of German tax dodgers who rush to Liechtenstein and Switzerland, and the exceptional number of people here who cut in line. ''You say Italians have no respect for rules, but they will actually kick you out of a restaurant for asking for parmesan on your tuna pasta,'' he pointed out. But he admitted that Germans were more likely to trust that each rule was probably written for a good reason, intended for the greater good.
 Living in Germany, a foreigner quickly learns to appreciate the precise punctuality of trains and trams, but also to have a healthy fear of that same punctuality in dinner guests who appear when they were invited, instead of 20 minutes later. A group of Germans lined up on an empty street corner, even in the middle of the night, waiting for a light to change before crossing, is one of the favorite first impressions taken away by visiting Americans, who are usually jaywalking past as they observe it.
 For self-reliant Americans, the German devotion to all manner of precise rules and regulations is impressive and stifling in equal measures. For American policy makers, it appears to have bred no small amount of exasperation recently. 
 During the often heated trans-Atlantic debate over the financial crisis, and how to respond to the worsening recession that has grown out of it, I often have felt as though the American side sometimes fails to take into account that it is talking to Germans. Indeed, if there was going to be a disagreement between the United States and Germany over stimulus and regulation, one could guess just by looking at the words, stripped of their economic context, who has been on which side of the divide.
 President Obama's approach to the financial crisis has been typically American -- bold, improvisatory and on the fly. The Germans have been studied and measured, evincing a far greater trust than the Americans in their social-security system to patch the cracks in the foundation of their economy.
 Of course that is due in part to the famed German aversion to excessive deficit spending, stemming from gut-level fear of a repeat of the hyperinflation of the 1920s. But there is also the German adherence to rules, love of a good plan and cautious, thoughtful approach when it slowly becomes apparent that a return trip to the drawing board may be necessary. 
 Can we really blame them? They tried improvising once, tearing up the rule book in the first half of the last century, letting a little charismatic speaker with an even littler mustache tell them how to get out of a tough economic pinch. He, too, posed as a man of order, but everyone, and especially the Germans, agrees that led only to chaos and destruction. 
 But today's Germans also love keeping to the slowly forged consensus because, as the last 60-odd years have demonstrated, it really does run pretty well for them. Despite reasonable working hours and long vacations, this country of 82 million people is the largest exporter of goods in the world, beating even China. But the kind of society built to excel at tinkering with precision-tuned industrial machines may not be so good at retooling policies on the fly.
 German stubbornness in resisting a shift of responses to the current economic crisis has led more than a few Keynesians to pull out more than a little of their hair. It might be for the best if those fans of vigorous impromptu spending came along to the pool with me -- not to relax, but to learn how to coax Germans to cross a red line, rather than expect them to do what is hardest for them, which would be to just jump over it with both feet.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOPHIA MARTINECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); COLD WAR (70%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



197 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: This Time, Slump Hits Well-Educated, Too

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Getting a master's degree in business was supposed to be Norm Elrod's ticket to upward mobility and a stable career. But it has not worked out that way for him, or for a fast-growing number of other highly educated New Yorkers.
 Mr. Elrod, 36, lost his job as a manager at an online marketing firm in October and has been looking for work ever since. In that quest, he has joined more than 35,000 college graduates who are collecting unemployment benefits in New York City.
 This recession is throwing the city's most educated workers out of their jobs at a rapid rate. And while unemployment rates remain higher for workers with less education, the gap is quickly narrowing. In the past year, the number of city residents with at least a bachelor's degree who are collecting unemployment benefits has risen about 135 percent, an analysis of state labor statistics shows -- nearly twice the rate of increase for people who did not finish high school.
 ''We have not seen this in prior recessions where there's been such an increase in well-educated people turning to unemployment insurance,'' said James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute in Manhattan. ''It's an uncharacteristically well-educated group.'' 
 The trend is occurring nationally, though it is more pronounced in New York City. Nationally, the number of unemployed people with college degrees doubled in the last year, rising by more than one million in the 12 months through March, according to a report released on Friday by the federal Department of Labor. 
 The surge in layoffs of professionals buttresses the view of some economists that the metropolitan area may not be able to pull itself out of recession quickly. One reason is that employers have been increasingly reluctant to fill high-paying positions that offer full benefits, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. 
 Several forecasts for the local economy also project that the financial services industry, which powered the city's recent growth, will continue to shed jobs long after other businesses rebound. The city's Independent Budget Office projects that employment will decline through the first half of next year, but that the local finance sector will keep shrinking until 2011.
 Alexandra M. Ben Othman, 28, was dismissed from her position as an editorial assistant for a Manhattan textbook publisher on March 2. A 2004 graduate of Rochester Institute of Technology, she has deferred repayment of her school loans. Many of her friends, including accountants, photojournalists and a lawyer, have also lost their jobs, she said.
 ''It's really bad,'' said Ms. Ben Othman, who lives in Sunnyside, Queens. ''There's nothing out there right now.''
 Indeed, the recession's effects have clearly rippled out from Wall Street to other professional services, like law, accounting, advertising and architecture. Some economists say they expect those cutbacks to lead to still more layoffs among lower-wage and blue-collar workers as incomes decline and spending slows.
 ''It's both a ripple out and a trickle down,'' said Rae Rosen, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, citing estimates that each job on Wall Street produced two or three other jobs in the metropolitan area.
 That statistic, known as a jobs multiplier, works in reverse too, said Jeffrey B. Wenger, an associate professor of public policy at the University of Georgia. Less educated workers usually continue losing jobs for months after employment rebounds for college graduates, Mr. Wenger said.
 ''This is a pretty bad harbinger for those with less education because it signals that the labor market hasn't even turned for the people with the best educations,'' he said. 
 New York City's unemployment rate jumped to 8.1 percent in February from 6.9 percent in January, its biggest change in any single month on record. That rise ended a period of more than a year when the city's job market had appeared to be healthier than the nation's. 
 As fast as unemployment appears to be rising among the most educated, the official count may still be understating how bad the situation is at the high end of the pay scale in New York, Ms. Rosen said. Many of the financiers and other professionals who have been laid off may not be collecting unemployment because they are still receiving severance payments from their last employers, she said.
 But others, like Mr. Elrod, have not been so fortunate. A resident of Jackson Heights, Queens, he has been collecting the maximum weekly benefit of a little more than $400 a week since he was fired in October, he said. Through a blog he created, www.joblessandless.com, he has heard from dozens of other professionals struggling to find work, he said.
 ''There's a lot of frustration out there,'' he said. ''A lot of people are in a lot worse shape than I am.''
 Mr. Elrod said that he had been laid off three times since he received his M.B.A. degree from Fordham University in 2005. He pursued the degree at night while working for a record company because he thought it would enhance his prospects, he said.
 ''I did have a much rosier view of things when I got out of school than I have now,'' Mr. Elrod said. ''I was thinking that once I got out, I would have this on my resume and basically have, if not my choice of jobs, at least some reasonable options. It hasn't played out that way.''
 In many ways, this recession resembles the deep downturn that began in 1989, ''which was really the first white-collar-driven recession,'' Mr. Hughes said. Then, too, there was a broad decline in employment in finance and related professions like law and accounting, he said.
 At the same time, the telecommunications industry went through wrenching changes that transformed old-line phone companies into wireless and cable providers. Many of the managers and executives laid off in that recession found work again when the economy bounced back in the mid-1990s. That pattern could be repeated once this recession runs its course, he said.
 ''If you're an accountant, a lawyer, some type of manager, you can adapt,'' Mr. Hughes said. 
 Concerns about keeping those highly trained unemployed workers in the city drove the Bloomberg administration to create a retraining program for laid-off Wall Streeters and other professionals this year. With the city's tax revenue dwindling as bonuses and big paychecks evaporate, city officials said they saw the need to encourage those people to start their own businesses or switch fields rather than wait for Wall Street to rebound. 
 Likewise, the state's Labor Department plans to spend part of an emergency grant from the federal government to outfit an office in Manhattan to help white-collar workers search for new jobs.
 But some laid-off professionals like Gary J. Ross say they expect to find new work on their own. Mr. Ross, 36, said he was one of about 90 lawyers dismissed on March 12 by Sidley Austin, a large firm with offices in several cities.
 ''It's not a great time to be looking for work,'' Mr. Ross said before heading to a midday showing of the movie ''Adventureland'' on Friday. ''I know it's not going to be easy, but I'm not in panic mode yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Norm Elrod, 36, of Queens, center, has been unemployed since October, despite an M.B.A. ''A lot of people are in a lot worse shape than I am,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CITIES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TEXTBOOKS (70%); STATISTICS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (50%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



198 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Defying World, NORTH KOREANS LAUNCH ROCKET

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN and DAVID E. SANGER; Choe Sang-hun reported from Seoul, and David E. Sanger from London. William J. Broad contributed reporting from New York

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korea defied the United States, China and a series of United Nations resolutions by launching a rocket on Sunday that the country said was designed to propel a satellite into space, but that much of the world viewed as an effort to prove it is edging toward the capability to shoot a nuclear warhead on a longer-range missile.
 North Korea launched the rocket at 11:30 a.m. local time, or 10:30 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time, said the office of the South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak. Early reports from the Japanese prime minister's office indicated that the three-stage rocket appeared to launch successfully, with the first stage falling into the Sea of Japan and the second stage into the Pacific. South Korea vowed a ''stern and resolute'' response to the North's ''reckless act.''
 South Korean officials, after studying the rocket's trajectory, said it appeared to have been configured to thrust a satellite into orbit, as the North had claimed. 
 No debris was reported to have fallen on Japanese land. There has been no confirmation of whether the third and final stage of the launching took place.
 But what may have mattered most to North Korea was simply demonstrating that it had the ability to launch a multistage rocket that could travel thousands of miles. 
 The motivation for the test appeared as much political as technological: After acquiring the fuel for six or more nuclear weapons during the Bush administration, and negotiating a halt of its main nuclear reactor in return for aid, North Korea's recent statements appear to be a bid for attention from the Obama administration.
 The Japanese government strongly protested the launching over its territory and asked for an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council. 
 Lee Dong-kwan, a spokesman for the South Korean president, said, ''North Korea's launch of its long-range rocket poses a serious threat to the stability of the Korean Peninsula and the rest of the world at a time when the entire world is pulling its wisdom together to overcome the global economic crisis.''
 Over the years the North has sometimes conducted tests as a gambit to extract concessions for more aid and fuel and to demonstrate its nuclear capabilities. 
 Manufacturing a nuclear warhead that is small enough, light enough and heat-resistant enough to be mounted atop a missile is far more complex than building a basic nuclear device -- and intelligence officials and outside experts believe North Korea is still years from that accomplishment. Typically, it takes many years of experimentation for a nation to learn how to shrink an ungainly test device into a slim warhead.
 Nonetheless, the series of tests in recent years -- in 2006 and 1998 -- is prompting fears of North Korean proliferation among Japanese, Chinese and Western leaders. North Korea's missiles have ranked among its few profitable exports -- Iran, Syria and Pakistan have all been among its major customers. If this long-range test ends up a success, it would presumably make the design far more attractive on the international black market.
 The launching provides one of the first tests of Mr. Obama's reaction to a provocation, on the weekend that he is scheduled to lay out for the first time, in a speech in Prague, his strategy to counter proliferation threats. 
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has ruled out any effort to shoot down the missile if the mission appeared to be a serious effort to launch a satellite. Rather, Mr. Obama's top aides said during last week's Group of 20 summit meeting in London that if the missile were launched, they would seek additional sanctions against the country in the United Nations Security Council, perhaps as early as this weekend.
 President Bush pressed for similar sanctions after the North's nuclear test in October 2006, but those sanctions had little long-term effect. 
 ''We have made very clear to the North Koreans that their missile launch is provocative,'' Mr. Obama said Friday after meeting with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France in Strasbourg, France. Mr. Obama took the issue up on Wednesday in London with President Hu Jintao of China. 
 While Washington has signaled calm, the Japanese response has been unusually strong. Japan deployed ships into the Sea of Japan and suggested it would try to shoot down any ''debris'' from the launching that threatened to hit the country. However, there is no evidence they tried to do so, and on Saturday, to the embarassment of the Japanese military, the country falsely reported twice that the missile had been launched. 
 With the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, reportedly recovering from a stroke last summer, the missile test may also be an effort by him -- or some in the military -- to demonstrate that someone is firmly in control and that the country's missile and nuclear programs are forging ahead. In recent times top American intelligence officials have told Congress they believe Mr. Kim is back in charge of the country, but they admit considerable mystery surrounds the question of whether he has regained all of his faculties.
 Stephen W. Bosworth, Mr. Obama's special envoy on North Korea, told reporters that while the United States would seek to punish the North for the test, it was also prepared to resume six-nation talks with North Korea to persuade it to give up its nuclear weapons program. ''We must deal with North Korea as we find it, not as we would like it to be,'' Mr. Bosworth said.
 In addition to Japan, South Korea, which is in easy reach of North Korean missiles, deployed navy ships with missile tracking radar near North Korea. 
 But President Lee, too, emphasized that the six-party talks should resume. 
 North Korea tried and failed to loft satellites in 1998 and again in 2006. 
 Western aerospace experts said the new North Korean rocket appeared to be fairly large -- much bigger than the one Iran fired in February to launch a small satellite, and about the same size as China launched in 1970 in its space debut.
 David C. Wright, a senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a private group in Cambridge, Mass., said the North Korean rocket might be able to lift a small satellite of 220 pounds into an orbit some 250 miles high. If used as a ballistic missile, he added, the rocket might throw a warhead of 2,200 pounds to a distance of some 3,700 miles -- far enough to hit parts of Alaska.
 Western analysts agree that North Korea's missile launching is a military endeavor, despite its payload of an experimental communications satellite and its cocoon of North Korean propaganda. Starting with Sputnik in 1957, most of the world's intercontinental ballistic missiles began life as satellite launchers.
 Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, told reporters in March that ''North Korea is attempting to demonstrate an ICBM capability through a space launch.''
 While many analysts have looked at the launching through a military lens, some say another perspective involves political rivalries on the Korean peninsula. For years, South Korea has been gearing up to fire a satellite into orbit and join the space club. Its spaceport of Oinarodo is nearly ready, but a launching scheduled for this month was delayed, giving North Korea an opening.
 ''They're racing to beat the South Koreans,'' said Tim Brown, a senior fellow at GlobalSecurity.org, a private group in Alexandria, Va.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (56%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



199 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: As the Salaries For Coaches Rise, Questions Follow

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Detroit 

 BODY:
 In addition to being a college president, Lee T. Todd Jr. is a college basketball enthusiast who wishes he were in Detroit this weekend experiencing the excitement of a Final Four. 
 Todd, the president of the University of Kentucky, made a hire last week that he hopes will bring Final Four fever back to Lexington sooner than later. On Wednesday, the university introduced John Calipari as its men's basketball coach. Calipari became the nation's highest-paid coach after signing an eight-year, $31.65 million deal that could escalate to $35 million with bonuses and incentives. 
 During preparations for the Calipari news conference, Todd recalled looking up at Kentucky's seven N.C.A.A. men's basketball championship banners. ''Every now and then, I look up there and I kind of wish we can add another one before I leave this position,'' Todd said Friday during a telephone interview. 
 ''That's the only time I think about the Final Four. The rest of the time, either I'm not worrying about athletics whatsoever or I'm totally embroiled in it: when it's hot, it's hot; when it's not, it's not.''
 Todd certainly had visions of a Bluegrass Final Four on his mind Saturday night as he watched North Carolina's rout of Villanova and especially Michigan State's emotional victory over Connecticut in the national semifinals. Todd graduated from Kentucky and remembers how great Wildcats teams unified a community, like the Spartans have done this year for Michigan. Coach Tom Izzo and more than one Michigan State player expressed the hope that the Spartans' tournament run might lift the spirits of Detroit, a city hit especially hard by the economic downturn.
 The question facing university presidents like Todd who maintain gigantic intercollegiate athletic programs is, how much are these good feelings worth? Are they worth paying multimillions in coaches salaries in hopes of reaching a Final Four? Earlier this week, Myles Brand, president of the N.C.A.A., raised the issue at a news conference.
 ''You have to ask some very hard questions, whether this is really in tune with the academic values, whether we've reached a point already that these high salary and packages for coaches has really extended beyond what's expected within the academic community,'' Brand said.
 During the same news conference, Walter Harrison, the president of the University of Hartford and chairman of the N.C.A.A. committee on academic performance, said of the Calipari deal: ''When you get an eye-popping, mind-boggling salary like the one you just referred to, it really brings you up short. Sort of takes your breath away in this economic environment.''
 Todd was more pragmatic than defensive about the Calipari hiring, saying the engine behind it was a rabid Kentucky fan base. He said the athletic department paid for itself: $400,000 a year for Calipari's salary will come out of revenue, the rest from the department's media contracts. Todd also said the athletic department contributed $1.2 million a year for academic scholarships.
 ''The people who drive that are the fans and the general public,'' he said, referring to lucrative coaching salaries. ''The money that we use to pay those salaries come through media contracts, primarily football and basketball and TV-related income and other media. Sports is an American marketplace.
 ''In order to be competitive, you have to be salary-competitive as well. We're all sensitive to salaries, and we know they're far greater than what we make or what our faculty make, but it's just a reality of the marketplace.''
 Brand conceded as much on Thursday. ''The members are competitive,'' he said. ''The alumni and friends of the institution want to hire a particular coach, and they'll push the institution to do it. The individual president must make that decision, and he or she has to deal with their own board.''
 Todd said Friday that by and large, alumni were pleased with the hiring, at the very least with the publicity it had generated. He said that an engineering graduate who sold his company to Hewlett-Packard during the process gave the university $6 million toward a new engineering building. The one thing he wanted was a courtside seat at Kentucky basketball games.
 ''I correspond with the largest donor we've ever had at this university, and he's just extremely pleased that we've made this coaching decision,'' Todd said. ''So while there's a potential negative to all of this, I think there's also a potential positive for keeping your people glued to your institution.''
 According to an N.C.A.A. report on revenue and expenses covering 2004 to 2006, only 16 Football Bowl Subdivision programs made money. The question is, how do you place a value on success in athletics? 
 Is the positive effect, for instance, of Michigan State's tournament run, worth the millions the university is paying Izzo?
 ''I would hope our university presidents and our conferences would ask those questions themselves,'' Brand said.
 They apparently have.
 ''There is something to going to a public university where you get the excitement of being able to back a team,'' Todd said. ''There may be too much money in the system, but the enjoyment that people get out of just the competition of the Final Four -- I think it's great for the country.''
 Todd added, ''What would universities be if you didn't have some of those athletic opportunities?'' 
 If the economy continues a downward spiral and athletic salaries soar, we may soon see.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (58%); VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (54%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (69%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



200 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SHAKEN & STIRRED; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: A Splash Of Incognito

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILES

 BODY:
WITH all the hubbub over absinthe, the resurgence of another centuries-old green spirit has gone relatively unnoticed. I'm talking about Chartreuse, a French liqueur made by Carthusian monks from an 18th-century recipe that is known only to three monks. 
 A fetish among cocktail enthusiasts, but obscure to the general public, Chartreuse has been steadily infiltrating cocktail menus in New York and elsewhere, with bartenders increasingly reaching for it to add depth and nuance -- and instant classical cred -- to their creations. 
 ''We've seen 42 percent growth in the last year,'' said Todd Richman, the brand manager for Chartreuse's importer, Frederick Wildman and Sons.
 To put that in context, the United States spirits market showed a 1.6 percent volume growth last year; also worth noting is Chartreuse's retail price, which at around $40 a bottle isn't exactly recession-friendly. 
 ''To have that happen in a single year,'' Mr. Richman added, ''that's a dramatic jump.'' 
 That is fitting since the liqueur seems to inspire dramatic reactions.
 Ross Goldberg, a Manhattan software engineer, credits a single sip of Chartreuse in 2003 with transforming him from beer drinker to the kind of full-tilt cocktail geek who makes his own bitters.
 ''It was an epiphany,'' Mr. Goldberg said.
 Matt Palumbo, a bartender at Bar Tonique in New Orleans, wears his love for Chartreuse on his sleeve -- close to it, that is (the Chartreuse logo is tattooed on his forearm).
 ''It's just far different from anything else,'' Mr. Palumbo said. ''It's made from 130 herbs and flowers, and nobody knows what they are.''
 Its sharp, assertive flavor is difficult to characterize without a torrent of descriptors, like trying to devise a one-line plot summary for a Georges Perec novel. Perhaps Anthony Blanche, the stuttering aesthete in Evelyn Waugh's ''Brideshead Revisited,'' put it best: ''It is like swallowing a sp-spectrum.''
 Though often taken as a shot, the current revival of Chartreuse stems from its supporting role in cocktails.
 ''If you're using it properly, it shouldn't be instantly recognizable,'' said Mr. Palumbo, whose signature drink, the Whiskey Kiss, combines green Chartreuse (there is also a milder yellow version) with rye whiskey, Benedictine, bitters and lemon juice. ''It brings a certain pop to the flavors and rounds everything out.'' 
 New York bartenders are marrying Chartreuse with just about everything: cachaca and fig syrup, in a drink created by the cocktail consultant Tim Cooper for a dinner sponsored by Cabana cachaca last month in Brooklyn; and with tequila and cilantro, in a drink called the Madero, which made its debut last week at the Blue Owl on Second Avenue.
 But my favorite neo-revivalist Chartreuse drink is the Pearl of Puebla, created by Jim Meehan at PDT, in which yellow Chartreuse meets lime juice, oregano, hints of agave syrup and pastis, and Sombra, a mezcal that hit the market in December.
 Made from hand-harvested agave hearts roasted over a mesquite fire, Sombra seems a fitting partner for Chartreuse, with its producers' similar adherence to oldfangled tradition.
 ''Not to be cheesy,'' Mr. Palumbo said, ''but it's like a window to the past.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Shaken & Stirred column last Sunday, about the French liqueur Chartreuse, referred imprecisely to a statistic from its importer, Frederick Wildman and Sons. The brand's 42 percent sales increase over the last year occurred in the New York metropolitan area, not nationwide, where sales grew 7 percent in that period.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MONKS' SECRET: The Pearl of Puebla uses Chartreuse, in this case the yellow version.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BEER & ALE (72%); BRANDING (69%)

COMPANY: FREDERICK WILDMAN & SONS LTD (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009

 
