

801 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Military Leaders Reported Unyielding at Talks

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

 BODY:
Talks aimed at restoring Haiti's elected President appeared close to failure yesterday as United Nations officials meeting on Governors Island in New York harbor were unable to obtain basic concessions from Haiti's military leaders, diplomats said.
They said that after more than seven hours of direct talks, the special United Nations envoy for Haiti, Dante Caputo, had been unable to persuade Haiti's army commander, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, to give ground on setting an early date for the return of the ousted President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
 The diplomats said there had been a similar lack of movement on what many have called the second major objective of the talks, the removal from power of General Cedras, along with most of the Haitian high command.
"The military doesn't appear to agree on anything important," said one diplomat close to the talks. "They will agree that Aristide must come back, but then they will suggest that that would take six or eight months."
 
'A Very Risky Situation'
 Father Aristide, who was elected President in December 1990 in Haiti's first democratic election in 186 years of independence, was overthrown after nearly eight months in office. By seeking to delay his return as long as possible, diplomats said, Haiti's military leaders are trying to exhaust Father Aristide's mandate, which expires in 1996.
On Sunday, diplomats involved in the talks said that if the negotiations broke down potentially violent tensions within the armed forces could quickly become more apparent as economic sanctions imposed on Haiti last week built.
"My guess is that if these guys return to Haiti without having achieved anything here, they are going to be putting themselves in a very risky situation," one diplomat said of the Haitian military delegation.
"There are harder liners than them who don't believe in negotiations at all and there are those who think this whole thing should be brought to a close, and as the pressure builds, this is going to play itself out."
Another diplomat close to the talks suggested that with a new round of international sanctions, which include a global embargo on oil and arms supplies to the country, imposed only last week, the best approach at this point might be to simply wait out Haiti's recalcitrant officers.
 
Concedes on Resignation
 "It may just be that this is too soon to talk," the diplomat said shortly after meeting with Mr. Caputo between his rounds of meetings with General Cedras. "They will just have to stew in their own juices for a while."
For security reasons, General Cedras's 20-member delegation has remained isolated on Governors Island, a tightly controlled military reservation, since arriving on Saturday and has had few contacts with the press. In a rare statement, one member emerged from a meeting this morning and told reporters, "There can be no solution that excludes us."
Diplomats said that after conceding on the point of his own resignation, General Cedras had insisted that the high command be kept intact. To address accusations of their involvement in hundreds of politically related killings in Haiti since the coup, he said, a "truth commission" could be set up along the lines of the independent panel appointed by the United Nations in El Salvador.
When the talks neared a breakdown this morning, diplomats said that Mr. Caputo explained the situation to President Clinton's special adviser for Haitian affairs, Lawrence A. Pezzullo. Mr. Pezzullo, accompanied by Charles E. Redman, the United States' special charge d'affaires in Haiti, then went to see General Cedras.
After the meeting, Mr. Caputo emerged briefly from the handsome brick Coast Guard Officers' Club, where many of the sessions have been held, to tell reporters, "I have just received some indications that permit me to say that the negotiations are still continuing."
 
Little Movement Reported
 Later in the afternoon, however, diplomats, together with members of Father Aristide's large delegation gathered on the island, indicated that there had been little movement and that the prospect of a total collapse of the talks was great.
For Father Aristide's delegation, the two days of talks have consisted of long hours of waiting, usually with little information before the end of the day. The exiled President is not expected to meet with General Cedras, the man who presided over the coup against him unless there is a breakthrough. "We have been simply waiting," Michael D. Barnes, an American adviser to Father Aristide, said. "So far there has not been a trend. Nothing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, left, the ousted President of Haiti, meeting yesterday with Dante Caputo, the special United Nations envoy for Haiti, for talks aimed at restoring Mr. Aristide to office. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); 

PERSON: CEDRAS, RAOUL (GEN); CAPUTO, DANTE; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (92%); RAOUL CEDRAS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



802 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: RAID ON BAGHDAD;
Poll Shows Raid on Iraq Buoyed Clinton's Popularity

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
President Clinton's decision to attack Iraq has brought him a substantial boost in approval ratings for handling both foreign policy and his overall job as President and has diminished uncertainty over his leadership on the world stage, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
The poll found that two-thirds of Americans surveyed supported the weekend air strike on the Iraqi intelligence headquarters in Baghdad, and six out of 10 approved of Mr. Clinton's general dealings with Iraq, more than approved of Mr. Clinton's handling of the crises in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Somalia. 
 As Mr. Clinton prepares to travel to Tokyo next week for a meeting of the Group of Seven industrial democracies, White House officials seized on the air strike as evidence that the President is sure-footed in international affairs. The Administration sent out its top military officials, most notably Gen. Colin L. Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on a series of television and newspaper interviews in the past two days to praise Mr. Clinton as a tough leader who would not be bullied by the Iraqi President, Saddam Hussein.
 
A 'Lesson' for Iraqi
 The poll indicated that many in the public were already supportive; 61 percent said the retaliation is "a good idea because it teaches Saddam Hussein a lesson," while 28 percent said it is "a bad idea because it risks further bloodshed."
The incident appears to be the latest in a line of what scholars call "rally events," when uses of force abroad or diplomatic breakthroughs cause Americans to rally around their flag, their troops and their Commander in Chief. Past "rally events" have produced, on average, an 8-percentage-point increase in the President's approval rating, and they have lasted an average of about 10 weeks, according to an analysis of the last 10 presidencies by the Gallup Organization.
President Bush's popularity surged by 18 percentage points in January 1991, when allied air strikes on Iraq began in the Persian Gulf war, according to the analysis. Other particularly large upturns recorded by Gallup were President Carter's 19 percentage point boost when the American hostages were seized in Iran in November 1979; President Ford's gain of 11 percentage points after he forced the return of the Mayaguez, an American vessel seized by Cambodia in May 1975, and President Nixon's 16-percentage point lift after the Vietnam peace accord in January 1973.
Mr. Clinton's gain since Saturday appears to fit the pattern. The Times/ CBS News poll found that after the air strike, 50 percent of Americans surveyed approved of the way Mr. Clinton was handling his overall job as President; last week, only 39 percent approved. More specifically, after the bombing 49 percent said they approved Mr. Clinton's stewardship of foreign policy; just before the attack, respondents were was split, with an approval of 38 percent and disapproval of 40 percent.
 
Two Rounds of Polling
 The national telephone poll was conducted both before and after Saturday's attack. Interviews with 1,363 adults were completed June 21 to 24; 622 of the same individuals were interviewed a second time after the attack in order to gauge any change in their reactions. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points for the entire sample, and 4 percentage points for results from the post-attack call-backs.
Seeking to contrast himself with Mr. Bush, Mr. Clinton campaigned promising to devote himself to domestic issues, but he has been distracted by a series of foreign crises. But if he is to succeed in domestic areas, aides said it was important for him to be viewed as a decisive world leader.
At his first Cabinet meeting after the attack on Baghdad, Mr. Clinton returned to domestic issues.
"I think it's very important today at this Cabinet meeting that we move on to other matters, that we go back to the domestic agenda," Mr. Clinton said.
But Mr. Clinton's advisers did not dispute the contention of some analysts that the political lift from the bombing may be would be fleeting.
"In the short term, it's clearly going to give him a bump politically," said Barbara Kellerman, a political scientist who is an authority on Presidents and world leadership. "But I'd describe it as no more than a goose bump in the international community. In the long run this is going to be inconsequential."
 
'He Has What It Takes

Larry Hugick, a pollster in Princeton, N.J., who has examined more than five decades of Presidential approval ratings, agreed that Mr. Clinton's increase in popularity may prove short-lived. "The question," he said of Mr. Clinton, "is whether he can build on this in any way, showing people that he has what it takes in being tough in foreign policy. If a President doesn't show strength and builds up an image for weakness, it's almost impossible to overcome."
The poll does show that while the attack brought slight upturns in other measurements of Mr. Clinton's performance, respondents still have many reservations about him.
Respondents' confidence in Mr. Clinton's ability to deal wisely with a difficult international crisis rose by 5 percentage points, to 39 percent from 34 percent. But before and after the bombing, more than 50 percent said they were uneasy about Mr. Clinton's approach.
Before the bombing, Americans said they had mixed views of the President's handling of other foreign trouble spots. For example, 52 percent approved of the way Mr. Clinton has handled the situation in Somalia, but only 36 percent approved of how he has dealt with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr. Clinton's aides said the trip to Tokyo will afford him another opportunity to strengthen his domestic support, particularly since the agenda is mostly economic.
 
Priority on Domestic Issues
 "The best way for him to play it at the summit will be to focus on what it does for American jobs and our domestic interests," said Joan Baggett, who takes over this week as the White House political director. "It will be preserving our leadership role in the country, but also making sure that we keep the focus on the domestic issues as top priority."
The risks of foreign entanglements were also demonstrated in the poll. Fifty-four percent favored sending American ground forces to Bosnia as part of a United Nations peacekeeping force to enforce a cease-fire there. But only 37 percent said the United States has a responsibility to do something about the fighting there, while 51 percent said the country has no such responsibility.
The poll indicated that the public's attention to the Bosnia situation has waned. Only 34 percent said they had been following news about the situation closely or fairly closely; in May, 61 percent said they were.
Ms. Baggett said she was not too worried that the new public attention on Mr. Clinton's foreign policy efforts would interfere with his determination to keep focused on domestic issues.
"Presidents do get a foreign policy bug," she said. "We'll just have to make sure he doesn't succumb to it."
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll on President Clinton and foreign policy is based on telephone interviews conducted both before and after the United States attack on Baghdad over the weekend.
On June 21 to 24, a total of 1,363 adults were interviewed around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii. On Sunday, 1,000 of the same respondents were called back and 622 were successfully re-interviewed to gauge their initial reactions to the attack.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen to assure that each region was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For example, for the group re-interviewed on Sunday, the margin of sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error. For instance, the results of the post-attack calls on Sunday are subject to additional potential error because of the limited time available to pursue hard-to-reach people.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Response to Iraq" shows the how people feel about the way Bill Clinton is handling Iraq and the missile attack on Iraq on Saturday.; "Before and After the Bombing in Iraq" shows how people feel about Bill Clinton before and after the attack on Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL GALLUP ORGANIZATION (52%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); INTERVIEWS (79%); DESERT STORM (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); POLITICS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (94%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



803 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Unofficial U.S. Military Group Will Visit Cuba

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 28

 BODY:
A delegation of retired American military officers and defense experts plans to visit Cuba this week to discuss ways of easing tensions between the United States military and its increasingly isolated Cuban counterpart.
Though unofficial, the visit of the five-member group promises to open a useful line of communication between the American military and the Cuban Defense Ministry, which invited the Americans and is headed by President Fidel Castro's brother, Raul. 
 Tensions between the armed forces date to the Eisenhower Administration, and military leaders of the two countries have had only minimal contacts even as many American politicians, academic experts and religious and athletic groups have visited Cuba in recent years.
Since the collapse of the East bloc in 1989 and the cutoff of subsidies during the unraveling of the Soviet Union, Cuba's economic shortages have grown increasingly desperate, with food severely rationed and transportation grinding to a halt because of a lack of fuel. The economic crisis and the political discontent accompanying it have led Cuba to make overtures toward the United States and other nations that seem aimed at coaxing Washington to end its 30-year-old trade embargo against the island.
At a news conference last week in Beijing, where he was exploring the possibility of strengthening economic and political ties with China, the Cuban Foreign Minister, Roberto Robaina, had words of praise and conciliation for the Clinton Administration. "We observe with great respect the way in which they are acting toward us," he said. "We are pleased to see that it is not using a language as aggressive as that of the previous Government."
The American delegation will be led by Wayne S. Smith, who was Washington's senior diplomat in Havana from 1979 to 1982 and who views missions to Cuba as a way of reducing the tensions between the countries. Mr. Smith said the delegation would not know the agenda for discussions with the Cubans "until we get there," but he and other members of the group said several military and arms issues would probably be discussed.
Among the unresolved issues are a recent pledge by Havana to reduce its conventional forces and the question whether it plans to sign the treaty to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. The delegation is also likely to press Havana on whether it expects the Russian military to keep supplying its forces with spare parts and observe arms agreements signed by Cuba and the former Soviet Union.
The other members of the American delegation are Adm. Eugene J. Carroll Jr. of the Navy, Gen. Kermit Johnson of the Army and Gen. Jack Kidd of the Air Force, all retired, and Jack Mendelsohn, a former State Department official who is deputy director of the Arms Control Association, a Washington-based organization.
Admiral Carroll, a former commander of the Sixth Fleet, said: "The unofficial, informal nature of this visit opens up subjects that would be untouchable if there were any official status."
Mr. Mendelsohn said the group had "no mandate whatsoever from the United States Government."
The American group is to arrive in Havana on Tuesday, one day before the deadline set by Russia for the final withdrawal of the combat brigade that has been stationed in Cuba since the 1962 missile crisis.
The official Cuban press agency Prensa Latina gave attention this month to remarks by the head of the State Committee for Economic Cooperation expressing willingness to discuss compensation claims by American companies for properties confiscated more than 30 years ago.
"This trial balloon on reparations would seem to be a signal of some opening, so we'll ask about that," said Admiral Carroll, deputy director of the Center for Defense Information, another Washington-based group.
Although the delegation has no official standing, the Administration has been told about the visit, and members of the group said they planned to talk with colleagues in the Government after they return on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); RELIGION (55%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (51%); 

PERSON: SMITH, WAYNE S; ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (58%); RAUL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



804 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Buenos Aires Journal;
Item: Menem Meets Top Model; Today It's Clinton

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, June 28

 BODY:
Much of Argentina acted like an infatuated teen-ager this month when Germany's top model, Claudia Schiffer, arrived to promote a local lingerie company. Troops of reporters and admirers raced after her Mercedes-Benz as part of the excitement that was dubbed Schiffermania and made her front-page news for days.
As is his style, President Carlos Saul Menem was not to be left out. Although talk shows paid $15,000 for her appearance, President Menem held two private meetings with the tall 22-year-old blonde: a 20-minute meeting at the presidential palace and then a private lunch at the presidential residence. 
 The public's reaction reflected the dual audience that Mr. Menem finds himself playing to. Many cheered the flamboyant, bon vivant manner that the 62-year-old President has cultivated in office for the last four years. Others severely criticized him, indignant that the model was received almost as a visiting dignitary.
What is hard to judge is whether the President's way of life places his political aspirations at risk.
 
Approval Ratings Drop
 As his approval ratings hover around 45 percent, down from 70 percent 18 months ago, President Menem is trying to persuade Argentines to change the Constitution to permit him to run for a second term.
"The society is very satisfied with what Menem has done, with the economic stability that he has brought to Argentina," said Miguel Angel Broda, a leading Argentine economist. "But it is getting impatient with the frivolity and the accusations of corruption that surround Menem's people.
"There is a lot to be done. This is not the time to break out the Dom Perignon. The fact that he saw Claudia Schiffer sends a signal that he is not working hard enough, that he is enjoying himself too much."
President Menem bristles at such criticism.
"I received her because she asked for an audience," he said in an interview with foreign reporters. "Just because you receive a world-famous model, is that a sign of frivolity? Is it a sign of frivolity that a President plays a musical instrument with a band? Such comments are mental dwarfism."
Many say that if elections were held tomorrow, Mr. Menem would win for lack of a strong challenger. But it is not that simple.
His Peronist party has to win big in congressional elections on Oct. 3 to give him the two-thirds majority needed for any constitutional change, an outcome that now seems remote.
As part of his re-election strategy, President Menem hopes he can improve his image in his second state visit to Washington in two years. On Tuesday, he is scheduled to meet with President Clinton, an encounter that Mr. Menem's aides have repeatedly emphasized is symbolically important because it will be the first meeting between a Latin American head of state and Mr. Clinton since he assumed office.
During the Bush Administration, Mr. Menem positioned Argentina as Washington's closest ally in South America as his Government restored diplomatic ties with Britain, after the 1982 Falklands war; left the nonaligned movement; sent two ships to fight in the Persian Gulf war; began criticizing Cuba for human rights abuses, and, most important, dismantled its intercontinental ballistic missile project.
Still, there are some tensions. The United States is pressing Mr. Menem to approve a law halting the pirating of pharmaceutical patents. He is also being pressed to dispose of the few remaining pieces of the missile project. In return, Mr. Menem hopes to get a signal from President Clinton that, after Mexico, Argentina will be the next Latin American country to enter into a free-trade agreement with the United States.
"In economic issues, we have more affinity with the Republicans," he said. "But in social issues we are closer to the Democrats."
Argentina now realizes that there are at least two Carlos Menems, and that the sweeping changes he has brought to the country may outweigh any disapproval of his way of life.
Once an avid tennis player, playing with such Argentine stars as Gabriela Sabatini, he switched to golf, installing a small course at the presidential residence. He regularly plays soccer and basketball with national teams. He dances the tango with television celebrities.
Mr. Menem does not seem to mind if the soap opera of his personal life is played out in public -- as in locking his estranged wife, Zulema, out of the presidential residence and in his stormy divorce proceedings with her. And he seems almost unfazed as corruption charges swirl around a number of his top aides and appointees.
The other Carlos Menem is perhaps the country's shrewdest politician and is likely to go down in history as the President that brought Argentina back from the brink of disaster.
Faced with hyperinflation, recession and political isolation, he used text-book economics by balancing budgets, cutting government spending, shutting down the printing press of the central bank, and privatizing state companies. In the process, he has made the Argentine economy one of Latin America's most successful.
But even his boosters are concerned that Argentina's rapid pace of change may be petering out. Instead of pushing ahead with policies to revamp the nation's educational, judicial and health systems, Mr. Menem may have begun to coast, paying more attention to his own re-election.
"The presidency itself seems to have lost its sense of purpose and role," said Felipe Noguera, a leading Argentine poll taker. "He seems to want to get re-elected on the basis of what he has done. But nobody votes backward. People vote looking forward."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Public opinion in Argentina is split over whether it was appropriate for President Carlos Saul Menem to meet privately with Claudia Schiffer, Germany's top model, receiving her as he might receive dignitaries. (Liliana Servente/Diarios y Noticias)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (58%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LINGERIE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (60%); MUSIC (60%); CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: MENEM, CARLOS SAUL (PRES); SCHIFFER, CLAUDIA; NASH, NATHANIEL C; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



805 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1949 words

HEADLINE: Researchers Track Pivotal Pathway That Makes Cells Divide

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
WITH a splendid convergence of discoveries from a broad range of disciplines, biologists at last have sketched out the crucial events that tell a cell it is time to divide. They have traced the pilgrimage of a biochemical signal from the moment it impinges on the delicate skin of the cell, through to its arrival in the cell's deep nuclear soul, where the directive to multiply can be fulfilled.
In understanding this essential pathway of life after a quest of 13 years, molecular biologists are now gazing upon their glittering prize, a fundamental revelation into how the body grows. The sight is astonishing to behold. It is epic. It deserves a crash of cymbals, a roll of the tympanum -- and a hearty guffaw. 
 It turns out the much-exalted signaling pathway of the cell is a kind of molecular comedy, in which one protein hooks up to a second protein that then jointly push a button on an enzyme that pushes a button on another enzyme that makes this knob slide into that hole -- all in all like something Wile E. Coyote might have pieced together from one of his Acme kits.
Yet despite its improbability, its cartoonish complexity, the design works wondrously in overseeing cell growth, so well that it is shared by species as distantly related as yeast, worms, flies and humans. And as a recent deluge of reports makes clear, scientists are elated at last to have cracked the puzzle of the cellular event known with less than operatic fortissimo as the "activation of the ras pathway."
The pathway is a biochemical somersaulting, a series of molecular reactions that begins when a stimulatory compound in the blood system tweaks a protein on the surface of a cell and ends with new cell growth. The ras pathway is the principal circuitry through which a signal to divide reaches central headquarters in the cell's nucleus, although scientists believe that other subsidiary growth pathways may exist.
At the heart of the long, intricate pathway is the ras protein, long a superstar among molecular biologists and a player so central to cell growth that defects in the protein are thought to account for up to third of all human cancers. In some cases, like tumors of the pancreas and colon, anywhere from 50 to 90 percent may result from a mutational blow to the gene that makes the ras protein.
In the past several months, dozens of reports on the ras pathway have appeared in major journals. At last week's annual meeting on the genetics of cancer in Frederick, Md., among the biggest gathering of its kind, presentations on the ras cascade dominated the sessions.
"There is more known now about the ras pathway by far than about any other pathway in the cell," said Dr. Michael Wigler of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island, an early pioneer in the study of the ras gene. "There has been a great advantage in having so many people studying the problem, because there are things that come out in the details that are precious."
Indeed, the details are the breath and blood of the story. It is one thing to know in hazy outline what happens to make a cell divide; it is quite another to know which proteins comport with which and in what order to carry out the task.
"There are still gaps in our understanding, and a few links are still obscure," said Dr. Robert A. Weinberg of the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge, Mass., another father of the ras field. "But I did manage to draw all this up in one glorious wiring diagram recently and present it at a talk." The wiring of the cell, he said, "is no longer any more inaccessible to study than the wiring of a transistor radio."
And while much of the latest work focuses on a basic understanding of the ras communications system, two papers published in the current issue of the journal Science suggest the work may be swiftly translated into real cancer therapies.
In the reports, researchers announced that, in test-tube results, they were able to block a step necessary for the ras protein to convey a cancerous signal to the nucleus. Using small synthetic peptides or drugs distantly related to Valium, the scientists prevented the ras protein from finding its proper niche just inside the membrane of the cell, a positioning essential if ras is to operate as the mastermind of a signaling cascade.
 
Keeping Cancer Cells in Check
 And while the drugs can also interfere mildly with the performance of the protein in healthy cells, for a variety of reasons the inhibitory effect is vastly amplified in cancer cells, depriving them of the power to divide lawlessly and returning them to a seemingly normal state.
In their ability to home in on a specific part of a signaling pathway in cells, rather than merely attacking and killing anything that divides, as standard chemotherapy drugs do, the new compounds approach the silver bullet method of which biologists and doctors have long dreamed.
The new therapeutics will not be ready for human trials for two to three years, said Allen Oliff, the executive director for cancer research at Merck Research Laboratories in West Point, Pa., and the preliminary observations may never come to anything. Nevertheless, he said, "I'm an oncologist, and from my viewpoint it's the most exciting thing I've seen in the last 15 years."
Dr. Oliff and a colleague, Dr. Jackson B. Gibbs, led the team responsible for one of the two Science reports. The other study came from a collaboration between the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas and Genentech Inc. in South San Francisco. Researchers elsewhere are seeking different Achilles' heels along the ras cascade.
"I started a company based on the premise that targeting ras is an excellent approach to cancer therapy," said Dr. Frank McCormick of Onyx Pharmaceuticals in Richmond, Calif. "I'm as convinced of that now as I ever was, if not more so."
The initial work on the ras gene began around 1980, when scientists realized that the gene could contribute to cancer and thus merited a designation as an oncogene. Like most of the 50 other known oncogenes, the ras gene was named after the animal species and tumor type in which its nefarious effects were first discovered -- in this case, as the cause of a rat sarcoma, or connective-tissue cancer. Mutant versions of the ras gene were soon detected in human cancers.
In one especially heady discovery, biologists discovered that the only difference between a robust version of ras that is vital to life, and the malevolent version that helps cause cancer, is a single subunit, or base pair, out of the many thousands of base pairs that make up the gene. Researchers also determined that this tiny flaw, or point mutation, had a startling impact on the ras protein.
Normally, when the ras protein is in an inactive state, it clasps a small molecule called GDP. Upon being elbowed into action by a stimulant like a growth factor, the protein tosses away the GDP and picks up a more active molecule called GTP from the cell's own cache, an exchange that allows the ras protein to pass its excitatory message along toward the nucleus.
Once its transmission chore is through, the ras protein obligingly switches itself off, using a bit of its own enzymatic machinery to transform the active GTP into the more sedate molecule, GDP. The point mutation destroys this act of self-control, leaving ras always gripping GTP and thus in an incessantly stimulated condition -- whether an external signal to grow is there or not.
Yet for all their insights and enthusiasms, biologists soon hit a roadblock. They did not know exactly how the ras protein received the growth signal from the outside world, or which subsidiary proteins it communicated with once it was stimulated. The "ras pathway" became a coveted but elusive goal that sent many young researchers into spirals of despair.
 
Series of Breakthroughs
 The breakthroughs began with the dawn of this decade, as scientists in disparate fields realized they were all working on the same problem. Experts in fruit-fly genetics discovered that a gene they had studied for its distorting effects on the development of the eye of the fly was somehow connected to the celebrated ras gene. Other biologists learned that a gene involved in shaping the vulva of a nematode worm was likewise linked to the ras pathway.
"The main reason why there has been so much progress in this field lately is that all the components in the pathway have turned out to be highly conserved in evolution," said Dr. Anthony Pawson of the University of Toronto. "The ras signaling pathway in mouse or human cells is the same as in nematode or fly cells." And so, he said, researchers have been able to use the study of lower organisms to cast light on the murkier realms of mammalian cells.
With the spectacular burst of recent productivity from scores of scientists around the world, the major actors in the ras saga have been filled in. The story begins with a coupling, between an arousing hormone or growth factor in the bloodstream, and a protein receptor jutting out from the surface of a cell like two hungry arms. Once the receptor meets its designated mate, the part of the receptor inside the membrane changes its chemical character.
 
A Magnet for Proteins
 "It becomes like a magnet," figuratively speaking, Dr. Pawson said. "And suddenly all these proteins lying about inside the cell become drawn to it like iron filings."
Among the proteins drawn up to the stimulated receptor is the enzyme first detected through the grace of fly-eye research, a laborer called -- with an attempt at playfulness characteristic of fruit-fly geneticists -- Son of Sevenless, or SOS. Now the second act unfolds. With the SOS enzyme in the neighborhood of the membrane, it encounters the protagonist of the story, the ras protein, which itself is always poised on the underside of the membrane.
"In real estate, location is everything, and the same is true of the cell," Dr. Pawson said. Once in contact with ras, the SOS enzyme goads ras to dump its bundle of GDP and scoop up GTP. The third and most theatric act of the signaling narrative then begins.
In a recent and important discovery that has surprised many biologists, Dr. Wigler and a group led by Dr. Alan Wolfman of the Cleveland Clinic Foundation in Ohio have shown that the active ras protein directly communes with an extremely potent protein called raf. This little beast, which is also prone to cancerous transformation, is a so-called kinase. Protein kinases are able to perform Circean tasks in the cell by daubing phosphate molecules onto other proteins and thus instantly changing the behavior of the recipient proteins. And what is the first protein that ras turns its kinase energies upon? Another kinase. Then, with an almost biblical sense of begetting, that kinase turns on still another kinase.
 
Area of Uncertainty
 At this point, scientists say, the wiring diagram gets a little fuzzy. But what is clear is that eventually a protein, bearing its phosphate ornament, makes its way into the nucleus, home to the cell's DNA. And rather than turning on yet another protein, this final messenger initiates the duplication of the DNA molecule, the first step in cell division.
"We've got a lot of this figured out, but one big question remains," Dr. Pawson said. "Why is it all so complicated? Why do you need so many steps?"
One likely reason is that with all the nodes along the way, other signals can contribute and modulate the cell's response. Another possibility is that nature is a bit of a sloth: she did not want to bother writing short, so she wrote it long instead.

GRAPHIC: Diagrams: At the heart of the somersaulting pathway of signals telling cells to divide is the ras gene. It controls processes so central to cell growth that defects may account for up to a third of cancers. (pg. C1)
 
"The Relay Race of Cell-Division Signals"
 
Rhe ras pathway is the principal circuitry through which a signal to divide reaches central headquarters in the cell's nucleus. New research illuminating cellular signals has made it possible to trace steps along the Rube Goldberg-style pathway. The series of molecular reactions begins when a stimulatory compound in the blood system tweaks a protein on the surface of a cell and ends with new cell growth. (Sources: Science, Merck) (pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (51%); 

CITY: FREDERICK, MD, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (51%); MARYLAND, USA (51%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; CANCER BIOLOGY (91%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (90%); BIOCHEMISTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (89%); CANCER (87%); ENZYMES (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (60%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); 

PERSON: ANGIER, NATALIE

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



806 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Loss of Species Is Worse Than Thought in Brazil's Amazon

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
THE destruction of habitat and loss of living species as a result of deforestation in the Amazon basin of Brazil is much greater than had previously been believed, according to a new analysis of satellite photographs. But the same photographs also show that the annual rate of deforestation is lower than had been thought.
The reason for the apparent paradox, say the authors of the unusually meticulous and detailed study, is that the disruptive impact of tree-cutting on plants, animals and microbes is not confined to the cut-over area but extends deep into the remaining forest, as well as into isolated "islands" of forest in the middle of otherwise denuded acreage. Past estimates have not taken these effects into account, but the authors of the latest analysis say that it more than doubles the area of ecological damage caused by deforestation itself. 
 "The effect of deforestation on biological diversity and on habitat is much greater than the deforestation per se," said Dr. Compton Tucker, a biologist and tropical forest expert at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. He and Dr. David Skole, a physical scientist at the University of New Hampshire, reported their findings in the current issue of the journal Science.
More than half the world's species live in tropical forests, and many biologists have been sounding an alarm about the forests' destruction. Preserving them has become a major point of contention between the developing countries of the tropics, which see the forests as important to their economic development, and environmentalists in industrialized countries who fear a mass extinction of species.
Over more than two years, Dr. Tucker and Dr. Skole examined photographs of the Brazilian Amazon taken by the Landsat satellite and by weather satellites; they also studied vegetation maps of Brazil. Rather than take a broad-brush approach to assessing deforestation, they carefully identified and excluded from their count of forest acreage such features as open savanna, water and roads. They hoped in this way to get a more accurate estimate of the extent of forestation.
Assuming that the "edge effect" of deforestation extends into the forest up to one kilometer (or a little more than six-tenths of a mile) beyond the forest perimeter, they identified all the edge areas they could find. These included clearings caused not only by deforestation for agriculture but those cuts made by rubber tappers, mine operators, airfield and road construction and other small ecological disturbances like the installation of power lines and pipelines.
 
Geometry of Deforestation
 The scientists also identified islands of forest, areas smaller than 40 square miles that had been isolated by deforestation, and computed edge effects for a zone of one kilometer inside the islands' boundaries. In a widely accepted formula, ecologists calculate that when an island habitat of any sort is reduced by 90 percent, the number of species in it eventually is reduced by half.
On the edges of the forest, Dr. Tucker said, any number of disturbances reduce species diversity: hunting, poaching, capturing animals, a change in the microclimate within the edge zone that affects microbes and insects, and even the wind. Tropical forest trees have shallow roots, he said, and wind gathering speed as it blows across the deforested area easily knocks them down. This "knockdown zone" extends perhaps 300-to-600 feet into the forest.
An extreme example of the edge effect is offered in the Brazilian state of Rondonia, Dr. Tucker said. There, in the early 1980's, the World Bank financed a network of roads running parallel to each other at right angles to a main highway at intervals of about 2.5 miles. Small farmers settled along the roads and cleared forests, creating a highly fragmented forest pattern with many edges. "If you want to maximize the habitat fragmentation of the forest," said Dr. Tucker, "this is the best way to do it." The fragmented pattern, the Tucker-Skole analysis showed, covered some 30,000 square miles. As a result, the two scientists reported, about a third of Rondonia's forests have suffered habitat loss even though only about 10 percent of the trees have been cut.
The World Bank stopped financing roads in the Brazilian Amazon several years ago. While Bank officials concede that the roads may have accelerated migration into the area, they maintain that Brazilian government policies encouraging the migration are mostly responsible.
Dr. Tucker and Dr. Skole also analyzed the shapes of deforested areas, because the edge effect increases or decreases according to their geometry. For instance, they say in their paper, if a 100-square-kilometer patch of tropical deforestation occurs as a single square and the edge effect is 1 kilometer, the total area affected by ecological damage is 143 square kilometers. By contrast, if 100 square kilometers of deforestation is distributed as 10 strips, each 10 kilometers by 1 kilometer, the affected area is 350 square kilometers.
By combining all these factors, Dr. Tucker and Dr. Skole determined that tropical deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon increased to 89,000 square miles in 1988 from 30,000 square miles in 1978. The 1988 figure represented 6 percent of the Brazilian forest. But the total area of biological disturbance, with the edge areas and islands included, increased to 227,000 square miles from 80,000 square miles. The 227,000-square-mile area of biological disturbance amounted to about 15 percent of the total forest. It was not possible to calculate how many species were extinguished or rendered endangered, since it is not known how many were there to start with.
 
Effect on Climate
 By comparison, an earlier study of satellite photographs made by the respected Brazilian Space Research Institute estimated a total area of actual deforestation of 108,000 square miles in 1988, 20 percent more than the new estimate. That study also estimated the average annual rate of deforestation in that decade to be 8,100 square miles. Dr. Tucker and Dr. Skole placed it at 5,800 square miles.
The new finding suggests further that the destruction of tropical forests contributes relatively less to a continuing buildup in the atmosphere of heat-trapping carbon dioxide than has been thought, and that the burning of fossil fuels like oil and coal contributes relatively more.
Trees exacerbate the problem when they are cut down, by giving off carbon dioxide as they are burned, and mitigate it when they are alive, by absorbing carbon dioxide. Some climatologists fear that the atmospheric buildup of the gas could eventually bring on a catastrophic warming of the planet and otherwise disrupt its climate.
The findings may also go partway toward solving a longstanding mystery about the cycling of carbon through the atmosphere, the oceans and terrestrial plants. Every year, about 5.5 billion tons of carbon dioxide are added to the atmosphere by the burning of fossil fuels, along with an unknown amount from the burning of tropical forests -- scientists have generally used a figure of about 1.5 billion tons -- for an estimated total of 7 billion tons. About 3.5 billion tons of carbon dioxide are known to stay in the atmosphere, contributing to a steady global buildup. The rest is taken up by the oceans and by plants, which scientists refer to as carbon dioxide sinks. Scientists believe the oceans account for about 2 billion tons of this uptake, but have been mystified as to where the remaining 1.5 billion tons go because they think this quantity is too much to be absorbed by the world's vegetation and soils.
Since the new findings suggest that deforestation is contributing less carbon dioxide to the air than had been thought, "the missing sink may not be as big as we thought it was," said Dr. Inez Fung, a climate researcher at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. "We've been struggling for several years now trying to find the extra sink in the sea or on the land. We haven't come close to resolving it, and this maybe will help us."
In a political context, she said, the findings reinforce the view that any effort to curb a possible global warming "has to focus on us, on the industrialized nations," since their contribution to the buildup of atmospheric concentration is even greater relative to that of developing countries than had been thought.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The extent of fragmentation of tropical forest in the Brazilian state of Rondonia, which is outlined in white, shows clearly in this map, based on Landsat-5 satellite data from 1988. The white parallel lines are roads along which new agriculture caused deforestation. Other white linear features are roads; the curved white areas are either clouds or natural savannas. Regions that are still covered by forest appear as darker colors. (NASA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AMAZON RIVER BASIN BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; PHOTOGRAPHY; SPACE DEFORESTATION (95%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (74%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (72%); WEATHER (72%); FOREST PRODUCTS GATHERING (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (61%); RIVERS (59%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



807 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: PERIPHERALS;
Ways to Think About Computing

BYLINE: By L. R. SHANNON

 BODY:
IF computers and VCR's are so smart, why do they act so dumb? And why do they often make us feel obtuse and inadequate? Two new books, not primarily about computers, give their own answers to these questions.
The first book is "Fuzzy Thinking: The New Science of Fuzzy Logic," by Bart Kosko (Hyperion; $24.95). The second is "Things That Make Us Smart: Defending Human Attributes in the Age of the Machine," by Donald A. Norman (Addison-Wesley; $22.95). 
 Professor Kosko attended California universities and studiied music, engineering, philosophy, economics and mathematics. A key insight came to him while sitting in the lotus position in a hot tub and was developed on a water bed. Professor Kosko is, in short, a Californian, all the more so for being a native of Kansas.
"Fuzzy Thinking" is an intellectual biography of the author's loss of faith in bivalent, or two-valued, logic: the Western tradition, codified by Aristotle, that holds that nature can be explained in either-or terms, 1 or 0, true or false, black or white. The common-sense approach of people who have not been overeducated in such matters is that the world is multivalent, not bivalent. Real life lies between 1 and 0; it is more or less, maybe, gray, vague and fuzzy.
Present-day computers are firmly rooted in binary units, fondly known as bits. A bit is either on or off, 1 or 0, true or false. Millions of bits guide the space shuttle, run financial systems, help us write newspaper columns or forecast the weather. But machines based on bits cannot recognize a familiar faceor grasp the possibilities of a chess position at a glance.
Professor Kosko prefers the fuzzy unit, the fit, which lies somewhere (or everywhere) between 1 and 0. In his view, bit values are special cases of fit values. Black and white are special cases of gray.
His argument leads to the neural network, "a set of interconnected neurons and synapses that acts as a computer and converts inputs to outputs." Brains are believed to work that way, and computers will have to, the argument goes, if they are ever to be more than incredibly swift morons. A neural network is an organization of patterns, not discrete bits, and the patterns can change in response to experience. A neural network can learn. Digital computers know only what they are taught.
 
Windmills of Your Mind
 The ability to recognize patterns is one thing that distinguishes human brains from computers, Donald A. Norman points out in "Things That Make Us Smart," a book with a different though related mission.
Dr. Norman, the founding chairman of the department of cognitive science at the University of California at San Diego, is an Apple Fellow and is also the author of "The Design of Everyday Things" and "Turn Signals Are the Facial Expressions of Automobiles." His concern is that our cognitive artifacts -- devices that compensate for our mental limitations -- are more and more designed to suit the artifact, not the user.
Say we are planning a speech or a paper. There are to be six major points and, since those are more points than we can comfortably keep in mind simultaneously, we write them on index cards. Then we write subsidiary topics on still other index cards, ultimately rearranging the cards until the flow -- the pattern -- makes sense. The stack of index cards is a cognitive artifact, a thing that makes us smart.
Suppose we use an outliner program on a computer instead of index cards. Now we are presented with the problem of doing things the way the program demands. Perhaps we must press the return key to move along in the outline from II to III, the control and return keys to move down from B to C, the alt and return key to . . .
The example is my own. For one of Dr. Norman's hilarious and harrowing ones, read his section on trying to navigate an automated telephone system designed for the convenience of the answerer, not the caller.
Neither book is light summer reading, and you may want to employ a cognitive artifact, a pad and pencil, to follow the logic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FUZZY THINKING: THE NEW SCIENCE OF FUZZY LOGIC (BOOK); THINGS THAT MAKE US SMART (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); BOOK REVIEWS COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BRAIN (85%); ENGINEERING (77%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%); 

PERSON: NORMAN, DONALD A; KOSKO, BART; SHANNON, L R

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



808 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Finding: Tobacco's Loss?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
When six major groups in the tobacco industry sued the Environmental Protection Agency last week, attacking its claim that secondhand smoke causes cancer, they said that the E.P.A.'s declaration had led to greater restrictions on smoking and, as a result, a drop in cigarette sales.
For that, they asked a Federal District Court in North Carolina to nullify the E.P.A. declaration, made in January, and grant damages to cigarette makers. 
 But while it may seem logical to conclude that making it more inconvenient for people to smoke causes them to stop or cut back, evidence to support that claim is less than compelling.
"The literature is mixed," said Michael P. Eriksen, director of the Office on Smoking and Health for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. "Whether people are stopping or switching, total consumption might not be changing. It could be just a change in topography, with more smoking in the morning, at lunch or at home."
For at least two of the plaintiffs, the Philip Morris Companies and the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the lawsuit might include no more critical point: As the leading cigarette makers in the world, they accounted for more than 70 percent of sales last year in a $45 billion industry.
Yet while overall domestic cigarette consumption has been dropping -- on average, more than 2 percent a year since 1982 -- industry experts have pointed to a variety of causes besides the E.P.A. pronouncement, including vigorous antismoking campaigns by health advocacy groups and steadily rising Federal and state tobacco taxes.
Industry officials especially fear a proposed increase in the Federal cigarette tax, now 24 cents a pack, as part of a new national health-care plan. By some estimates, the tax could increase to as much as $2.24, which would nearly double the cost of a pack. Economists familiar with the dynamics of the tobacco industry say that even by conservative estimates, for every 10 percent increase in the cost of cigarettes, consumption declines by 3 percent.
It remains unclear to what degree, if any, that ratio has been affected by the E.P.A. declaration -- or any of several other major reports that reached the same conclusion years before.
Certainly, the impact of the E.P.A. conclusion has carried at least implicitly the weight of a regulatory decision, generating a variety of more aggressive antismoking measures, including these:
*Since June 13, all United States Postal Service facilities have been mandated smoke-free.
*Several major airports, including Dallas-Fort Worth, Minneapolis-St. Paul and National Airport in Washington, have banned smoking.
*The city of Los Angeles last week became the largest in the country to ban smoking in restaurants. A law that goes into effect next month would exempt only bars, nightclubs, dance halls and restaurant outdoor seating areas.
*The Pennsylvania Legislature is considering a bill that would prohibit smoking in vehicles carrying anyone under the age of 16.
*Scores of private employers, including McDonald's restaurants and the Greyhound bus company, have toughened their antismoking restrictions.
 
Influence of Other Warnings
 But have those measures carried more weight than earlier warnings? Conclusions of similar significance were reached in 1964, when the Office of the Surgeon General identified a cancer risk from primary smoke, and in 1986 and 1991, when the cancer risks of secondhand smoke were identified, respectively, by the National Academy of Sciences' National Research Council, and by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Presumably, all those warnings played a role in creating smoking bans and restrictions.
Lawyers for Philip Morris and R. J. Reynolds declined to address specific points of the complaint, or to say why they chose to sue the E.P.A. rather than the authors of previous studies. But Steven C. Parrish, vice president and general counsel for Philip Morris, said the Surgeon General in 1964 was acting in response to Congress, providing an annual picture of American health.
"Even though we might have disagreed with what the Surgeon General did -- and we said so, from a legal standpoint -- he was acting on a specific directive," Mr. Parrish said. The industry did not act in response to the other reports, he said, because they did not carry the weight of governmental decree.
"In this case," he added, "the main point is we feel the E.P.A. exceeded its statutory authority."
Robert C. Weber, who is serving as coordinating and trial counsel for all six plaintiffs, said, "It will be proven at trial that sales are, in fact, impacted on behalf of each plaintiff when restrictions limit when or where you can smoke." He said that courts did not necessarily require proof "quantifiable in terms of dollars and cents," that they often considered "a wider perspective."
 
Previous Studies Mixed
 Yet any wider perspective might also bring into view those research studies with mixed or inconclusive results in seeking evidence that restrictions cause people to smoke any less.
A study in the September 1992 issue of Preventive Medicine found that while smoking restrictions reduced consumption, mostly during the workday, "no evidence was found to support the contention that smoking bans will result in increased smoking cessation rates."
More than two years earlier, a study presented in the Journal of Occupational Medicine found that restrictions "provide little support for the hypothesis that they have a positive influence on overall smoking behavior."
Ultimately, the plaintiffs might have to overcome other obstacles before the debate about cause and effect can begin. John F. Banzhaf 3d, executive director of Action on Smoking and Health and a law professor at George Washington University, said that some courts imposed a greater burden of proof upon plaintiffs holding the Government responsible for the actions of others. The tobacco groups contend that not only did the E.P.A. use flawed methods in reaching its conclusion, the announcement had the impact around the country of a Government directive.
"Where Government action affects a third party, it is more difficult to prevail," Professor Banzhaf said, adding that it is also difficult to sue on a theory. That is why, he said, the tobacco industry did not sue the Federal Government in 1964 after the first report by the Surgeon General that cigarette smoking increases the risk of illness.
"You can't sue a finding," Professor Banzhaf said. "You can't sue for giving a warning."
Not that many Americans heeded the warnings, anyway. In 1965, the year following the Surgeon General's report, cigarette consumption increased 3.4 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Secondhand Smoke"
 
1964
 In its annual report to Congress, the Office of the Surgeon General reports that cigarette smoking increases the risk of lung cancer and other illnesses.
 
1986
 The National Academy of Sciences' National Research Council reports that exposure to second-hand smoke increases the risk of lung cancer in non-smokers and causes respiratory symptoms in children of parents who smoke.
 
1986
 The Surgeon General rerports second-hand smoke can cause lung cancer in healthy non-smokers and that the simple separation of smokers and non-smokers does not eliminate the exposure of non-smokers to second-hand smoke.
 
1991
 The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health determines second-hand smoke to be a potential occupational carcinogen
 
1993
 the Environmental Protection Agency declared second-hand smoke a carcinogen, responsible for approximately 3,000 deaths a year among non-smokers. (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (91%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (51%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) ALTRIA GROUP INC (91%); R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO (69%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (51%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); SURGEON GENERAL (84%); SURGEON GENERAL (84%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH (59%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); SURGEON GENERAL (84%); SURGEON GENERAL (84%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH (59%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING; CANCER; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; SALES; TAXATION; EXCISE TAXES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR SMOKING (94%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); TOBACCO MFG (92%); CARCINOGENS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CANCER (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); SMOKING BANS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX LAW (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); AIRPORTS (60%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



809 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Trade negotiations broke off between the United States and Japan. The deadlock relates to setting numerical targets for opening markets and suggests Japan is less willing to accommodate American demands in order to keep good relations. [Page A1.]
Argentina sold more than $3 billion worth of shares in YPF, the state oil company. Underwriters offered 160 million shares at $19, in the largest privatization on record in Latin America. [D2.] 
 A venture to create a new Mexican newspaper has collapsed. But despite the withdrawal of Dow Jones & Company, executives of El Norte intend to publish a new daily in Mexico City. [D22.]
 
The Economy
Many Americans are flocking to buy news cars or trucks, after having put off purchases in recent years. With 37 percent of cars and light trucks 10 years old or older, some drivers find they must replace their old standbys. [D1.]
 
Companies
Tobacco interests may have a hard time proving in court that the E.P.A. caused cigarette sales to drop by declaring that second-hand smoke causes cancer. Although cigarette consumption has been slipping, many other factors may have played a part.[D1.]
Former officers of Financial News Network face fraud charges leveled by the Securities and Exchange Commission for exaggerating the cable operation's financial results in 1989 and 1990. [D1.]
Corning offered $23 a share for Damon in an attempt to overshadow a bid of $16 a share by National Health Laboratories, a rival in the blood-testing industry. [D5.]
Borden hired Ervin R. Shames as its president and chief operating officer. He will be replaced temporarily as head of Stride Rite by John J. Phelan, who had retired as vice chairman. [D5.]
Northern Telecom's stock plunged after announcing late Friday that it would post a second-quarter loss because of weak sales in its main telecommunications equipment business. [D5.]
Boeing plans to offer a new 737-X family of jetliners if the world's airlines submit sufficient orders to justify proceeding with the new plane. It would be a derivative of the current 737. [D5.]
ITT has agreed to buy Desert Inn Properties of Las Vegas, Nev., for about $160 million. If the deal is approved, it will speed up the conglomerate's entry into the gambling business. [D5.]
Honda has settled a lawsuit by a dealer who charged that his Acura franchise had failed because Honda did not provide him with enough cars. Terms of the settlement were not disclosed. [D6.]
Anheuser-Busch has bought a 5 percent interest in Tsingtao, China's largest beer maker, for $16.4 million. [D6.]
A. E. Staley has locked out nearly 800 production workers at its huge corn processing plant in Decatur, Ill. [D6.]
R. H. Macy reported that its earnings were on target in May, for the fourth straight month. [D8.]
 
Markets
John Nuveen has emerged as a most profitable securities firm by limiting its business to municipal bonds. It is a strategy based on a corporate philosophy that goes back 95 years. [D1.]
Long-term Treasury bond rates fell to record lows amid optimism that inflation will remain subdued. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 6.67 percent. [D1.]
The decline in rates also propelled stocks higher by 39.31, to 3,530.20. It was the best one-day advance since May 19. [D10.]
Frozen concentrated orange juice futures settled lower. [D20.]The dollar was mixed in uneventful trading.[D20.]
 
Today's Columns
The stock of Harvey Comics jumped just after going public, but it has been downhill since. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D10.]
Lorillard Inc. is trying to revive Old Gold through print ads by Ally & Gargano. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (60%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (71%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (60%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (60%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (51%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (77%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (71%); MACY'S INC (60%); INTERACTIVE DATA CORP (55%); BOEING CO (53%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (51%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); SMOKING (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LITIGATION (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (87%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (75%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (67%); APPROVALS (65%); FACTORY WORKERS (64%); BREWERIES (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (62%); AIRLINES (61%); GAMING (60%); CANCER (52%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



810 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Stock Loss For Northern Telecom

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Investors erased $2 billion off the market value of the stock of Northern Telecom Ltd. yesterday in the wake of its Friday announcement that the company would post a second-quarter loss because of weak sales in its main telecommunications equipment business.
Analysts said the difficulties of Northern Telecom, based in the Toronto suburb of Mississauga, partly reflected the worldwide recession. But they also said the woes of the company were a result of problems unique to its digital switching equipment, the highly complex computers that are capable of routing thousands of calls an hour over local and long-distance telephone networks. Such central office equipment constitutes half of Northern Telecom's business. 
 Analysts said, and the company confirmed, that customers in the United States had complained about the quality of the company's software. They said that Northern Telecom had to spend time and money rewriting parts of computer programs, which can consist of up to 20 million lines of computer code.
 
Shares Drop More Than $8
 Shares of Northern Telecom dropped $8.125 yesterday, to $28.875, a 52-week low, on unusually heavy volume of 2.2 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
In the United States, the American Telephone and Telegraph Company has about 41.3 percent of the digital-switching market and Northern Telecom about 38.2 percent, according to the market researchers Northern Business Information Inc. The United States market is worth about $1.7 billion a year, but is shrinking in value -- partly because of price cutting.
Unlike Northern Telecom, which is primarily an equipment maker, A. T. & T. gets most of its revenue from providing long-distance service. Still, A. T .& T. has been in a better position to sell most of its digital switches to its offspring, the regional Bell companies. By contrast, Northern Telecom had to rely on sales to the smaller and more diverse independent phone companies.
 
Complex Software Needed

As a result, Northern Telecom's digital switches tended to be more customized and require more complex software. A.T.&T., selling to the relatively more uniform regional Bells, can write programs with less than half as many lines of software code.
Each time Northern Telecom has introduced software enhancements, the probability of "bugs," or software errors, has risen exponentially, said Michael R. Arellano, an analyst at Northern Business Information.
A Northern Telecom spokesman acknowledged "software problems" that the company was working vigorously with its customers to solve.
At the same time, competitive pressures from A. T. & T., Siemens of Germany and Ericsson of Sweden have meant Northern Telecom is receiving less revenue from each digital telephone line sold, less than $170 per line now, compared with $500 in the early 1980's, Mr. Arellano said. With about 70 percent of nation's phone lines already digital, digital-switch companies are competing for a shrinking pie.
But the pie is still quite profitable, analysts say, because future software improvements can be worth an additional $500 over the 20-year life of a phone line.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Fewer Lines Left to Go Digital" tracks number of digital versus analog and electro-mechanical telephone lines in service from 1985 through 1991. (Source: Northern Business Information)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); ERIC.B (STO) (84%); ERIC.A (STO) (84%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (84%); IT (NYSE) (54%); SIN (SWX) (51%); SIE (LSE) (51%); SIE (FRA) (51%); SIE (BIT) (51%); SI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (75%); CANADA (72%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TELECOM LTD NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (91%); AT&T INC (90%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); GARTNER INC (54%); SIEMENS AG (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN TELECOM LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (75%); CANADA (72%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); COMPANY REPORTS; FORECASTS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (94%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



811 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Has Mixed Showing Amid Guessing on Jobs Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mixed in moderate, uneventful trading yesterday.
After closing mostly lower in Europe, the dollar turned mixed when trading shifted to the United States. The dollar was under pressure from speculation in the market that June job growth in the United States would show a gain ranging from 25,000 to 50,000, well below widespread market estimates of 125,000 additional job. 
 The Labor Department is scheduled to release the June employment report on Friday.
"That was a real lowball estimate," said Randolph Donney, research director at Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J. "That would not be good for the dollar."
Sluggish job growth suggests a slowing of the economy, which would make the Federal Reserve more inclined to lower interest rates. Lower rates would lessen the value of dollar-denominated securities.
Over all, traders adopted a cautious attitude and were intent on taking profits from the dollar's recent strength, particularly against the German mark.
Many dealers with mark holdings have moved to the sidelines ahead of Thursday's meeting of Germany's central bank. members of the Bundesbank are not expected to take any specific action at the meeting, but dealers are concerned that German interest rates could eventually come down, Mr. Donney said.
Trading was lackluster, with Mr. Donney saying that the market "is getting into the dog days of summer," adding that "people are just squaring up their books a bit."
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 106.00 yen, down 0.35 yen from Friday's close. Later in London, it rose to 106.05 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 106.25 yen, up from 106.15 yen on Friday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.4935, from $1.4760 late Friday. In New York, one pound cost $1.4965, up from $1.4780 on Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, were: 1.6955 marks, down from 1.7043; 1.5050 Swiss francs, down from 1.5130; 5.7145 French francs, down from 5.7375; 1,548.00 Italian lire, up from 1,542.00, and 1.2820 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2818.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); GERMAN MARK (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); BRITISH POUND (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



812 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Auto Industry Has Time on Its Side

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 28

 BODY:
For three years, many Americans put off new car and truck purchases, sending Detroit into a deep funk and contributing to the layoffs of tens of thousands of workers. Now 37 percent of cars and light trucks in the United States are 10 years old or older, compared with 23 percent in 1981.
And as many Americans find they have little choice but to replace their old standbys, sales of cars and light trucks have steadily accelerated. Since April, hundreds of thousands of buyers have marched into showrooms to the great relief of auto makers and dealers -- and the United Automobile Workers. 
 "The industry calls this its pot of gold, and we calculate that it has about 6.6 million cars and light trucks in it," said Don Hilty, chief economist at the Chrysler Corporation. The WEFA Group, a forecasting firm, has a more modest but still considerable estimate of pent-up demand: 2.5 million to 3 million vehicles.
While various surveys of consumer confidence find that consumers remain pessimistic, many car buyers say what is bringing them back to the showroom is simply that the vehicles they are driving are about to give out.
The mystery of what finally motivates a consumer has been endlessly debated in Detroit, and some economists insist that a purchase will take place only when the price is right and the consumer is in the mood.
Still, consider the case of Jeff Andrews of Dalton, Ga. He recently bought a $22,000 Jeep Grand Cherokee. About to start a new job selling long-distance phone services, Mr. Andrews was fearful of relying on his 1983 Nissan 280ZX, which has 116,000 miles and has failed a few times.
"I could use the excuse that my car didn't work once, but not twice," said Mr. Andrews, 23. "I was just putting off the inevitable." Money from college graduation gifts provided his down payment, and his mother co-signed a loan.
Many economists say that Mr. Andrews's situation, multiplied on a grand scale, is the most important factor underpinning recent strong auto sales. With interest rates low and consumer debt down from high levels, they say, conditions are ripe for an automotive replacement cycle.
Other factors are sharp increases in the price of used cars, which narrow the premium a buyer must pay for a new one, and the continued appetite for what the industry lumps together as light trucks: mini-vans, pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles like the Jeep, the Ford Explorer and the Nissan Pathfinder. More and more Americans are substituting such vehicles for cars, and sales in this category continue to increase far more sharply than those of cars.
 
Up 8.3% in 1993
 The auto makers say the recent strong sales are no guarantee that a boom like the one that lasted from 1983 to 1989 has started. But they are at least hopeful that three years of sluggishness have come to an end. Through the beginning of June, dealers in the United States have sold 5.56 million vehicles, an 8.3 percent increase over the similar period in 1992.
Because prices of Japanese models have soared and the quality of domestic models has improved, the sales of Detroit's Big Three -- General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler -- are up a disproportionate 12 percent so far this year, and their share of the automotive market has climbed to 75.3 percent from 72.8 percent last year.
The modest rebound in sales comes as the Big Three open negotiations with the U.A.W. on a national labor agreement; the current contract expires in early September.
As both sides prepared for the talks last year and early this year, the backdrop was staggering losses by the auto companies and huge layoffs at General Motors. Now, with sales stronger, the union is likely to be even more determined to hold on to its excellent health-care benefits and job security, while the auto makers will keep pressing for cutbacks.
The auto industry seems headed for a decent year in 1993, with American sales of 14 million to 14.5 million vehicles -- still well short of the more than 16 million vehicles sold in 1986. "We aren't zooming out but crawling out," Chrysler's Mr. Hilty said.
And should interest rates climb markedly or the Clinton budget bill scare consumers, sales might well stall again. Yet even those conditions might not deter the many motorists whose cars and trucks are giving out.
Vehicles are more durable today, which would help explain why drivers hold on to them longer. The average age of 7.9 years for all cars on the road at the end of 1991, the last year for which precise statistics are available, its the highest since 1948, shortly after World War II, when it was 8.8 years. During the war, auto-making capacity was turned over to war production.
Buying a new car, like buying a new house, is a financial commitment driven by disposable income and optimism. Consumers gauge their disposable income, the price of the vehicle, interest rates and intangible factors like the probability they will remain employed.
Of course, in many cases, the owner of a worn-out car may buy a used car instead of a new one. In the late 1980's, auto makers flooded the market with low-mileage "almost new" cars that had been slightly used by rental fleets.
For a while, sales of these "almost new" cars cut into new-car sales. But over time, sustained buying of such cars drives up their prices and narrows the differential between prices for them and for new vehicles. Consequently, some customers begin to reconsider new cars.
In May, Chrysler said, used-car prices were 9 percent higher than in May 1992. Economists and dealers noted the steady rise of used-car prices before the surge in new-car sales in April.
"We just aren't seeing the 14,000-mile trade-ins like we used to," said Herb Juran, co-owner of DeLon Honda in Salem, Ore. "People are holding on to their cars longer."
As prices of used cars rise, so do trade-in values toward new cars. "We've been saying the ability to buy is getting stronger," Mr. Hilty said. "We've only been concerned about the willingness."
 
More Cash Available
 Price increases by domestic auto makers, taking into account rebates and other incentives, have been relatively modest. And lower interest rates have motivated homeowners to refinance mortgages, releasing more cash each month for car payments. Jack V. Kirnan, automotive analyst for Salomon Brothers, said a third of American homeowners have refinanced in recent years, adding an average of $200 a month to household income.
At the same time, hard times have forced auto makers to think hard to find new ways to entice customers. "I believe that new models excite people and get them out to showrooms," said Thomas M. Galvin, automotive analyst for C. J. Lawrence Inc.
Chrysler's new L/H family sedans have been the season's indisputable hit in the car market. In light trucks, the extended cab pickup, which adds storage room and extra seats to the normal pickup truck layout, is gaining popularity.
"Extended cabs are the next growth story," said J. Michael Losh, General Motors' vice president and group executive in charge of North American marketing. "We're a little surprised at how fast things have moved. We're putting a third shift on at our factory in Oshawa, Ontario, to meet the demand."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "An Aging Auto Fleet Could Be Increasing Sales" tracks average age of U.S. cars, 1946 through 1992; also tracks annual sales of cars and light trucks since 1980 with projections for 1993 and 1994. (Sources: R. L. Polk & Co.; WEFA Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; VANS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UTILITY VEHICLES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); MINIVANS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); INTEREST RATES (60%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



813 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Boeing Plans New Version of Popular 737

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 28

 BODY:
Anticipating a demand for 4,100 planes between 1997 and 2010, the Boeing Company said today that it would offer a new 737-X family of jetliners to the world's airlines. The offering is only a first step toward acquiring sufficient orders to proceed on the new plane. If there is sufficient interest, first deliveries would begin in late 1997, Boeing said.
The 737-X would be a derivative of the current 737, which is the best-selling commercial airplane in history, and would feature a bigger wing and new engines. Boeing said it had begun working with more than 30 airlines in 1991 to develop a future 737 that would continue to meet their needs into the next century. Like today's 737, it would be offered in three sizes from 108 seats to 157 seats, all in two classes. Boeing made its announcement after the market's close. 
 "The 737-X will provide greater range, increased speed, less noise and fewer emissions while maintaining the 737's simplicity, reliability, family commonality and low operating costs," said Gordon Bethune, vice president and general manager of Boeing's Renton division, where the 737 and 757 are assembled. He said Boeing customers were not seeking drastic change in the 737.
 
The Customers' Message
 "They told us, 'Keep it simple, keep it reliable and maintainable and keep our costs down,' " Mr. Bethune said. "That's what we're doing." While this is a new airplane, rather than a new version of the 737, it will use many of the same parts. He noted that the 737 had the industry's highest reliability rating.
While the 737-X is still early in the design stage, some key features include: a modified wing with more area, offering more fuel capacity; an increased range that would allow coast-to-coast flights, now beyond the capacity of current 737's; an increase in speed and new engines, to be produced by CFMI, a joint venture between General Electric of the United States and Snecma of France. The new engines are more powerful, more efficient and quieter than current 737 engines.
Howard Rubel, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs, said the new 737 would be more competitive against planes made by Airbus Industrie. "The A320 win at United, in addition to very attractive financing, was partly driven by slightly better operating features" than the current 737, he said. "The other goal here is to come up with an airplane that is so attractive that operators of older 727's will see economic advantages and switch to the new jet."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (96%); AIRBUS SAS (84%); SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ETUDE & DE CONSTRUCTION DE MOTEURS D'AVIATION (SNECMA) (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (51%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; JET ENGINES AND JET PROPULSION AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



814 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Nuveen Limits Itself And Profits Handsomely

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
For the last 20 years, few investments have been as popular with individuals, year in and year out, as municipal bonds. Riding the coattails of that infatuation, John Nuveen & Company, a Chicago firm, has emerged as one of the most profitable securities firms by dint of its various municipal bond mutual funds.
In an industry where many firms see diversification as a key to prosperity, even survival, Nuveen has sidestepped the trend by limiting itself to municipal bonds. It is a strategy that executives justify on the ground of superior profits and a corporate philosophy that goes back to the firm's founding 95 years ago by John Nuveen, a dry goods merchant. 
 Mr. Nuveen, whose travels in the Midwest impressed upon him the need for government spending on projects like roads and water systems, felt that the good repayment record of municipal bonds and their essential role in financing such projects made for a business where his firm could do well by doing good.
 
Several Objectives
 "Municipal bonds are special, because they are a way for individuals to earn income and preserve wealth and at the same time do something for the public good," said Richard J. Franke, Nuveen's chairman. Mr. Franke has pushed Nuveen to become the largest company in municipal bond mutual funds and has reduced its old-line business of trading and selling new bond issues, and he still sees concentrating on municipal bonds as a key to high profitability.
"By focusing on that market, we are not distracted by 300 other products," he said. A reputation in a single market also makes it easier to persuade the securities brokers, bankers, financial advisers and insurance agents who sell mutual funds that they should handle Nuveen products.
Last year, Nuveen did well enough to earn $59 million, mostly from the fees collected for managing $27 billion of municipal bond funds held by a million individuals, or one out of every four taxpayers who earned municipal bond interest. Last year, when outsized profits were the rule among securities firms, Nuveen earned a higher return on its capital, 34 percent, than such highly regarded firms as Merrill Lynch or Franklin Resources, a mutual fund company. Richard S. Goleniewski of Goldman, Sachs & Company called Nuveen's pretax profit margin of 44 percent of revenues "astounding."
The big profits were largely a result of a decision five years ago to introduce a new kind of municipal bond fund: "leveraged" funds, with yields roughly 30 percent above those of nonleveraged funds. As an added filip, the funds were listed on the New York Stock Exchange -- a key feature to brokers' customers more familiar with stocks than bonds.
The higher yield results from the sale of preferred stock in each fund. The preferred pays interest at low, short-term interest rates but the money from their sale is invested in higher-yielding long-term bonds. The difference is added to the return collected by common shareholders.
The funds are expensive: investors buying the initial offering pay a 6.3 percent fee to securities dealers, in addition to an annual management fee to Nuveen of 65-hundredths of a percentage point. But the funds proved well suited for the period of stable and declining interest rates that have prevailed since 1988.
Imitators of leveraged funds quickly appeared, but Nuveen has more than $20 billion outstanding, or about 40 percent of the market.
With record profits and Nuveen's business growing rapidly, its owner, the St. Paul Companies, a Minnesota insurance concern, decided last year that the time was ripe to sell part of the company. At a price of $18 a share, the eight million Nuveen shares, representing 26 percent of the company, sold quickly and have since increased to $33.375 a share.
St. Paul bought Nuveen for $10 million in 1974 when Nuveen was still recovering from a disastrous foray into the markets for corporate and Treasury securities in the 1960's. St. Paul has earned about 30 percent annually on the investment, and still owns a 74 percent stake in the company, worth about $750 million.
"I wish I could say it shows how smart we are," said Patrick Thiele, chief financial officer at St. Paul. "But we inherited an extraordinary management team," he said, and St. Paul's role was to "give them the backing they needed to grow without being forced to diversify or be swallowed by somebody larger."
Nuveen executives were also allowed to foster a corporate culture noticeably different from that at other firms. M.B.A.'s are less likely to be hired than are humanities majors, and senior executives are sent to study arts and social sciences at Stanford for a semester.
In contrast to other firms in municipal securities, Nuveen and its employees do not make campaign contributions to government officials who select the firms to sell new bond issues. The policy has cost the firm some business and is one reason it is a minor player in distributing new issues, said Edward Dunn, a vice president, "but it was just not the kind of activity we could tolerate."
 
Keeping Its Vendors Happy
 While most securities firms eye others in the field warily, Nuveen coddles the 4,000 securities firms, banks and financial advisers that sell its products. They get visits from Nuveen representatives and receive reams of material on Nuveen products. When individual investors, perhaps attracted by the $20 million or more Nuveen spends annually on advertising, get in touch with Nuveen directly, they are referred to an outside vendor. This endears Nuveen to brokers.
One of the company's strong suits is a 45-member research department that Nuveen says is the largest of any firm devoted only to municipal securities. Besides helping Nuveen decide which bonds are best for its mutual funds, the research ability is touted as an advantage in other ways.
For example, knowing that $100 billion of municipal bonds are likely to be retired this year before their scheduled maturity, Nuveen's analysts and public finance experts compiled lists of which bonds were most likely to be affected. It then shared that information with securities brokers, even providing a toll-free "800" number. Naturally, if the bonds are retired, Nuveen hopes brokers will reinvest their clients' money in a Nuveen product.
 
Well-Paid Employees
 Although Nuveen has the trappings of a money machine, the company is interested in doing more than just maximizing profits.
The average employee compensation last year, a whopping $136,534, was 25 percent greater than at Merrill Lynch. "They take very good care of their people," said Gerald S. Roberts, a former Nuveen employee and now executive vice president at Boatmen's Bank in St. Louis.
Ten years ago the company started paying the college tuition of employees' children, regardless of the college. Instead of being preoccupied with the pressure of paying tuition or being tempted to find a better-paying job, Nuveen employees pass the tuition bills to the company. "It breeds tremendous loyalty, and we think that is good for shareholder value," said Timothy R. Schwertfeger, an executive vice president.
The price exacted for this benevolence is productivity. With 550 employees, Nuveen's work force is barely larger than it was five years ago, even as revenues have doubled.
 
Some Challenges Ahead
 Whether revenues can double again in five years, a period that will see the retirement of the executives who led the company to success after its near collapse in 1969, is open to question.
The company's most profitable products, the leveraged bond funds, have not been tested by a period of rising interest rates. And while Nuveen's investment experts have managed those funds to minimize the effects of rising rates, they readily warn investors that the funds are vulnerable to price declines if interest rates rise. Whether the prices of the leveraged funds drop more than those of nonleveraged funds when interest rates rise depends on how adroitly Nuveen's portfolio managers shift out of long-term bonds before rates rise and the extent to which short-term rates remain below long-term interest rates, producing extra income for shareholders.
Nuveen executives say they have contingency plans if the popularity of leveraged funds fades. Just as the unit investment trusts, a wildly successful product of the 1970's and early 1980's, were replaced by leveraged funds, they say more products can be created out of municipal bonds.
Nuveen's concentrated expertise gives it the ability to innovate, said Mr. Franke, who adds that municipal finance is "an adolescent or very young adult" in its life cycle.
Mr. Thiele of St. Paul said he used to wonder how Nuveen, with its relatively narrow focus, could cope in the ever-expanding securities world. "But I've seen them make major changes," he said, "and I don't worry about it anymore."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Concentrating on municipal bonds prevents Nuveen from being "distracted by 300 other products," said Richard J. Franke, chairman of the firm, whose bond funds are owned by one million investors. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "Funds Replace Investment Trusts" tracks volume of Nuveen's sales of unit investment trusts and mutual trusts that are traded on stock exchanges, since 1970. (Source: Nuveen) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); BEN (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (58%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NUVEEN, JOHN, & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUVEEN, JOHN, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); MIDWEST USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS BONDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (91%); BOND FUNDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BOND ISSUES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); SALES FORCE (70%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (63%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; FRANKE, RICHARD J RICHARD J FRANKE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



815 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

MAN CONFESSES TO SERIES OF KILLINGS
A 34-year-old unemployed Long Island landscaper, arrested after the New York State police discovered a body in the back of his pickup truck, has confessed to killing at least 15 prostitutes, many from New York City, and burying their bodies in remote areas, the state police said. The discovery came after a chase that began with a traffic violation. A1.
 
NEIGHBORS OFFER CLUES TO SUSPECT
Neighbors of the suspect, Joel Rifkin, who lived in East Meadow, L.I., question how little they really knew about him. Several described him as "quiet" and "pleasant." Others called him a "loner" who, when angry, would leave in his pickup truck. B5.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 

HISPANIC SEAT MAY BE CHALLENGED
Long-stalled efforts to force the creation of a third Hispanic Congressional seat from New York City may face yet another hurdle. The United States Supreme Court held that a district drawn to help a black candidate in North Carolina might be unconstitutional, which could open a similar challenge in New York. B4.
 
NEW YORK POST TEETERING AGAIN
The survival of the The New York Post is again threatened. Rupert Murdoch, the publisher, has scheduled a hearing in bankruptcy court for Wednesday to discuss terms for ceasing publication. B2.
 
RAID FREES CHINESE IMMIGRANTS
A sweep of Queens safe houses where illegal Chinese immigrants were held against their will led to the arrests of at least 17 people, the police said. The raids, in the Flushing section, were part of an effort to curb smuggling by gangs. B3.
 
INFORMATION FROM SHEIK DECLINES
Law-enforcement officials say that surveillance of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman is producing diminishing returns, undercutting one reason Federal officials offer for not arresting him. B3.
 
TEACHERS AUTHORIZE A STRIKE
For the first time in 18 years, members of the union that represents New York City public school teachers have authorized their leaders to order a strike if the city does not meet their demands for a bigger pay raise. B6.
 
BRONX'S SUBURBS RAISE QUESTIONS
Since the mid-1980's, more than 1,000 suburban-style houses have gone up in the southwest quadrant of the Bronx, the most urban of places. The incongruity underscores the questions that have risen along with this experiment in neighborhood reclamation. B3.
 
The American Museum of Natural History names Ellen V. Futter, the president of Barnard College, as the second paid president in its 124-year history. C13.
 
REGION
 
TRENTON VOTES COMMUTER TAX
New Yorkers who work in New Jersey will be taxed under the same formula New York uses to tax workers from New Jersey, under a law passed by the New Jersey Senate and expected to be signed by Gov. Jim Florio. The new commuter taxis expected to bring in $27 million a year and affect about 100,000 New York residents. B5
 
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo is now conceding the political impossibility of reducing state spending on hospitals this year. B4.
 
New York State's parks are in their worst state of disrepair in 20 years, a survey says. B4.
 
Our Towns B5
 
Chronicle B6

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Money Matters" shows the amount of employment in finance, insurance and real estate from '85-'92. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MAN3 (FRA) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (85%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); SMUGGLING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); PUBLISHING (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); SUBURBS (66%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (62%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%); HISTORY (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (51%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



816 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Are Stunned by Man's Confession to Murders

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

 BODY:
Joel Rifkin was raised on middle-class values and grew up in a middle-class neighborhood of neatly landscaped homes in East Meadow, L.I. After school he worked in the local library, and his high school yearbook shows he was a member of the debating team, the winter track squad and the photography club.
His father was a construction engineer and after he died several years ago, a room in the East Meadow Public Libary was named in his honor for his work as a library trustee. 
 So the news of Mr. Rifkin's confessions yesterday to at least 15 murders of prostitues in Manhattan has caused neighbors to question how little they really knew about him.
Marnie Barton, who lives across the street from the Rifkins, said: "I can't believe what they're saying about this man. I've practically known him all his life and I can't believe what they're saying he did. He seemed perfectly normal, a polite kid."
 
'Quiet,' 'Respectful'
 Dozens of neighbors lined the sidewalk across the street from the Rifkin home, at 1492 Garden Street. The house, a raised ranch with a ornate Japanese maple tree in front, was cordoned off by the police with Mr. Rifkin's mother, Jean and his sister, Jan, cloistered inside.
Several neighbors described the 34-year-old suspect, a freelance and frequently unemployed landscape gardener, as "quiet," "respectful" and "pleasant," and someone "who was never in any trouble." They spoke of his family as "respectable" and "such a very nice family."
But several neighbors who did not want to disclose their names also spoke of the young man as a loner and "someone who kept to himself." They said he was never married and was never seen with a date.
Another neighbor, Harold Reiter, said, Mr. Rifkin was "never in any trouble."
Several others said that Mr. Rifkin was always working on his pickup truck, and that he angered them by leaving it on the street all night with the hood up and parts of the engine on the pavement.
 
Library Honored Father
 Mr. Rifkin's father, Bernard, was a construction engineer and a trustee of the East Meadow Public Library. His his son worked there as a page while attending East Meadow High School, from where he graduated in 1977. The library trustees named a room in his father's memory.
Neighbors said that Mr. Rifkin attended the agricultural college at the State University of New York at Farmingdale and that he preferred to call himself a horticulturist rather than a gardener.
Mr. Barton said Mr. Rifkin would constantly walk across the street and ask him how to repair a certain kind of lawnmower or his truck engine.
"He was under his cars and trucks all day long when he wasn't at work," Mr. Barton said.
But most neighbors said they did not recall a bumper sticker on the truck Mr. Rifkin was driving when stopped by two state troopers: "Sticks and Stones May Break My Bones but Whips and Chains Excite Me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel Rifkin, who confessed to killing at least a dozen prostitutes and burying their bodies in remote parts of the New York metropolitan region, being led from state police headquarters last night in Farmingdale, L.I. Troopers Sean Ruane, left andDeborah Spaargaren, right, made the arrest early yesterday. (Photograph by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; PROSTITUTION; SERIAL MURDERS PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); GARDENING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); LIBRARIES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); HORTICULTURE (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); MARRIAGE (64%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, RONALD; RIFKIN, JOEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



817 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Empire Errors Often Used in Albany Rate Talks

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
Decisions by the State Insurance Department to grant rate increases to Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield over three years repeatedly cite figures that the company now says were erroneous.
Transcripts of a rate hearing and Insurance Department documents show that the erroneous figures were prominently featured in two important ways: In testimony during the hearing and in the department decisions granting the increases. 
 Previously, the department and Empire officials said that the misleading figures had been used to lobby for changes in the state insurance law, but did not come into play in determining rate increases.
 
Impassioned Plea for More
 But a review of the transcripts and Insurance Department documents shows that Albert A. Cardone, Empire's deposed chairman, used the figures in an impassioned plea for a 20 percent rate increase last year and that the inaccurate figures were cited in the department's rate determinations for three years beginning in 1990. During that time, the Insurance Department granted Empire rate increases ranging from 13.7 to 18.9 percent.
State Insurance Superintendent Salvatore R. Curiale yesterday repeated his contention that the erroneous figures had played no role in rate setting, despite their inclusion in his department's decisions, which he signed.
"I don't know what he said in his rhetoric," he said of Mr. Cardone's testimony in the 1992 rate hearing. "I only know what we look at in the rate filings."
The filings, which were made at the time Empire asked for the increases, included data that were different than the erroneous figures, Mr. Curiale said. He said the misleading numbers were cited during the rate hearings only to help the Insurance Department assess the company's financial well-being, and not as a basis for setting rates in the three years.
But the inclusion of the erroneous figures in rate-setting documents shows the use of the faulty data was wider than previously believed. And some of the numbers in the rate filings closely correspond to the erroneous figures. An Empire spokesman said yesterday that while the company stood behind the numbers in the rate filings, it was investigating why they were so similar to the faulty data.
Since the company's new chairman, Harold E. Vogt, announced the discovery of the misleading numbers two weeks ago, Empire's chief financial officer, Jerry Weissman, has been suspended without pay. Mr. Weissman said in a deposition filed with the United States Senate subcommittee investigating Empire that he arrived at the erroneous numbers at the direction of Mr. Cardone.
 
Acting Like a Cheerleader
 Last week, two former Empire employees testified under oath before the subcommittee that they were transferred from the executive suite when they confronted company officials about the erroneous numbers.
Mr. Cardone, Mr. Vogt and Mr. Curiale are to testify tomorrow before the Senate subcommittee, which last week issued a scathing report blaming Empire's financial crisis largely on its own mismanagment and criticizing Mr. Curiale and his department for acting more like a cheerleader than a regulator to the insurer.
Yesterday, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said he had not yet read the subcommittee's report on Empire. But he was familiar with its critical tone and said he looked forward to hearing Mr. Curiale's response when he appeared before the committee.
"My understanding is that the Senate report said that he failed to detect things that should have been detected, and the Superintendent says that's not true and he intends to make that clear when he testifies on Wednesday," Mr. Cuomo said.
"We'll know Wednesday what the other side of the story is," Mr. Cuomo said, "and we'll consider both of them."
As Mr. Cuomo was discussing Empire at a news conference yesterday, a major advocacy group for customers was calling for establishment of an Office of Insurance Consumer Advocate to improve oversight of the insurance industry and Empire in particular.
The advocacy group, the New York Public Interest Research group, said its move was provoked by the continuing revelations about Empire, which have also resulted in preliminary criminal investigations by the United States Attorney in Manhattan and the Manhattan District Attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau.
 
False Data for 3 Years
 The erroneous figures that are included in the Insurance Department's rate determinations involve Empire's overstatement about its projected losses on what are known as its "community-rated accounts." These accounts involve individuals and small groups of employees and others within the state and their rates are set by the Insurance Department.
At the same time, the company understated the amount of its projected losses on what are known as its "experience-rated accounts," which include its contracts with large national employers like A.T.& T. and I.B.M. The company can set its rates on these accounts without approval from the Insurance Department, but under state law it must show a profit on these accounts and use part of it to subsidize the rates for the community-rated accounts.
For the three years of 1989-91, a set of figures prepared by Mr. Weissman and kept internally showed losses on the community-rated pool totaling $17 million, $39 million and $154 million. But figures submitted to the state in Empire's annual statement showed the losses to be higher: $60 million, $47 million and $182 million.
In testimony on a proposed rate increase on Feb. 26, 1992, Mr. Cardone argued, "During the last calendar year, we experienced net underwriting losses of more than $175 million on our community-rated business." The figure corresponds to the misleading annual report figure, minus a loss of roughly $7 million on Empire's health maintenance organization.
Similarly, at two points in its decision to grant Empire a part of the increase it requested, the Department cited a loss of "$174 million."
The figures that Mr. Curiale and other Insurance Department officials said they relied on in setting the rates were not mentioned in the decision. The officials said yesterday, in response to reporters, that with hindsight, perhaps the figures should have been included. They said they were not included because the department feared the public would be overwhelmed with numbers.
The similar questionable figures for 1989 and 1990 were cited in rate increase decisions rendered early in 1990 and 1991. Also presented in the three rate-increase decisions were inaccurate figures on the projected financial performance of the "experience-rated" accounts.
 
Parallel Mistakes
 Empire officials said yesterday that they would look into why the incorrect figures were so close to some of those in the rate filings. The two sets of figures differ by only $2 or $3 million for the community-rated and experienced-rated accounts in 1990 and 1991. That difference puts the figures in the rate filings closer to the erroneous figures than the internal figures that were kept by Empire and are believed to be accurate.
Michael Blumenfeld, a spokesman for Empire, said late yesterday: "As best we can determine, the rate filing claims data were completed properly. We're still looking at the tie between the rate-setting data and the annual statement because those data were completed on different bases at different times."
In a deposition last week, Mr. Weissman, Empire's chief financial officer, told lawyers for the Senate subcommittee, the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, that he changed the numbers for Empire's 1991 annual report to the state after a discussion with Mr. Cardone.
Mr. Weissman said he went to Mr. Cardone in early 1992 with a set of figures he had calculated for losses in both community-rated and experience-rated accounts for 1991. Because some bills for 1991 were still outstanding, the figures were based partly on estimates and contained a reserve amount to cover the outstanding bills, he said.
 
Not a Conservative Year
 Mr. Cardone "indicated to me that this was not the year for us to be super-conservative in setting the reserves on the experience-rated business," Mr. Weissman recalled.
"After my discussion with him, I took another look at the numbers and I adjusted them," Mr. Weissman said, shifting $31 million in losses from the experience-rated accounts to the community-rated accounts.
Mr. Weissman said that similar, although smaller, adjustments were made in 1989 and 1990, but neither had any effect on state legislation.
"I think the one adjustment that possibly could have had an effect on the Legislature was the one that was done in 1991, and I've explained that that was a result of my discussion with Mr. Cardone," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "HEALTH: Empire's Rate Increases" shows the average rate increases requested by Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, and the increases that were actually granted, from '90-'92. (Sources: New York State Insurance Department, Consumer Protection Board) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; RATES INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (92%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (90%); DEPOSITIONS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE LAW (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, MARTIN

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



818 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
ALCOA TO CUT ALUMINUM PRODUCTION AND LAY OFF 750

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Aluminum Company of America said yesterday that it would reduce aluminum production capacity and lay off about 750 workers at five plants in the United States. Alcoa will cut jobs at plants in Badin, N.C.; Rockdale, Tex.; Alcoa, Tenn.; Warrick County, Ind., and Wenatchee, Wash. 
 Aluminum prices have been at record lows, as a result of increased shipments from the former Soviet Union. Paul H. O'Neill, chairman of the Pittsburgh-based company, said the cutback in jobs was "a direct casualty of a lack of any mechanism to deal with the economic consequences of the dissolution of the former Soviet Union." Alcoa employs 63,600 worldwide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ALUMINUM CO OF AMERICA (ALCOA) ALCOA INC (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALUMINUM CO OF AMERICA (ALCOA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM; LAYOFFS (LABOR); PRODUCTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (94%); LAYOFFS (92%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (91%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (86%); SHIPMENTS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



819 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: An Agenda for Albany

 BODY:
Lots of old news from Albany. Once again, the lawmakers are showing their preference for late-and-sloppy over early-and-orderly.
The Republican-dominated State Senate is again standing in the way of legislation banning the sale of assault weapons, as well as a meaningful bill setting stronger penalties for hate crimes. The Legislature is again failing to restructure New York City's wayward Board of Education by putting it under mayoral control, and is bowing to union pressure by not reforming the Wicks law, which costs local governments millions by preventing them from awarding construction contracts to a single low-bid contractor. 
 Yet some useful legislation still has a chance, including a gay rights bill, a measure that would lift rent controls on the affluent and reforms at the community school board level in New York City. Here are a few other bills that demand attention:
Brooklyn Incinerator. Opponents are attempting to sabotage the badly needed incinerator at the Brooklyn Navy Yard by exploiting an otherwise meritorious effort to reduce air pollution. One section of an Assembly bill designed to bring the state into compliance with the Federal Clean Air Act would require the city to "offset" the pollution from the incinerator by closing down other sources.
The city says that finding offsets could delay construction and possibly even kill the plant, thus leaving the city to fester in its own garbage. With this unhappy prospect in mind, both Federal and state environmental agencies have ruled that the Brooklyn plant can be excluded from the requirement because it completed its application six years before the act took effect.
Some lawmakers, led by Sheldon Silver, Democrat from Manhattan, refuse to exempt the plant. Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin has given his go-ahead to Mr. Silver, who has become a stalking horse for the plant's opponents.
The city says it can find about half the offsets envisioned in the legislation and keep the plant alive. That compromise deserves Albany's enthusiastic support.
Probation Funding. The state foolishly cut funding for probation services. That will cost New York City $11 million over two years and raise caseloads for probation officers. Worried that released prisoners will get little supervision, judges might sentence them to state rather than city prisons -- at an annual cost to the state of $30,000 a prisoner. That $11 million cut could cost the state $100 million. It thus makes sense to restore the original cut and let city probation workers do their job.
Mental Health Reform. A Senate bill anticipates a $250 million saving from closing state hospital beds over the next five years. The savings would go into a community mental health resources fund. The Assembly agrees in principle.
Similar shifts in resources have been promised for years, but so far money saved from closing down hospital beds has gone toward closing the state budget gap. This time, the Legislature and the Governor must make sure the money goes where it's supposed to.
Economic Development. As the Legislature rightly tries to curb cutthroat competition among local governments for economic development, it risks hurting legitimate efforts in New York City. Some cities and towns have offered excessive tax and financial incentives, often to the benefit of individuals rather than the public.
The city has never been accused of such abuse. To remain competitive with neighboring states, the city needs its development tools, including the ability to waive sales taxes for the purchase and maintenance of capital equipment. It must also be able to offer special assistance to "professional services" like investment banks, big consultant firms that are such a large part of the city's economy.
The Legislature should keep the city's record and special needs in perspective.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INCINERATORS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; PROBATION AND PAROLE; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; HOSPITALS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); PROBATION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); STALKING (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SENTENCING (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PAROLE (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (75%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); AIR QUALITY (72%); RENT CONTROL (72%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); NAVIES (72%); MAYORS (71%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (70%); CONTRACT AWARDS (70%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (67%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (63%); HOSPITALS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LGBT RIGHTS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



820 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Reapportion the Security Council

 BODY:
The United Nations, freed from paralyzing cold war vetoes, has finally begun to assume the global interventionist mission its founders had in mind. That's encouraging, with one crucial caveat.
The apportionment of seats in the Security Council -- where questions of intervention are decided -- is outdated. It reflects a snapshot of world power in 1945, not the reality of 1993. Without reasonable reapportionment, the legitimacy of future U.N. actions could be called into question. 
 Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has asked member states to submit their ideas on Security Council reapportionment this month.
At a minimum, the Security Council should be expanded to allocate permanent seats to Japan and Germany. Further changes will be needed to maintain a fair balance between rich and poor countries without unworkably expanding membership or proliferating vetoes.
History explains why Germany and Japan weren't included from the start. The words "United Nations" originally referred to the victorious Allied coalition in World War II. Those Allies became founding members of the new global organization.
The Security Council, designed to enforce the hard-won peace, was set up with five permanent, veto-wielding seats for the leaders of that coalition -- the U.S., Britain, China, France and Russia -- along with six rotating seats for other members. Four new rotating seats were added in 1965.
Britain and France are no longer the world powers they once were, while Germany and Japan have rehabilitated their reputations and rebuilt their economic strength. Hundreds of new countries, many of them former British and French colonies, have won independence and joined the United Nations. And the U.N. has emerged from cold war paralysis to venture into new areas of peacekeeping, including humanitarian interventions into sovereign states.
Earlier this month the U.S. delegate to the U.N., Madeleine Albright, publicly endorsed permanent seats for Germany and Japan. Sensibly, Washington looks to these economic powerhouses to contribute more to the U.N.'s cash-starved operations. Less sensibly, it would also like to see both become more involved in international military operations.
Since 1945 Germany and Japan have maintained a modest diplomatic profile and strictly limited their use of military force. This honors the feelings of countries victimized by World War II aggression. But it also reflects domestic sentiment in both countries, chastened by war and defeat.
Adding two new permanent Security Council seats for Germany and Japan would encourage them to take on more of the international responsibilities that come with their economic success. But neither should be urged to remilitarize. Even the issue of participating in U.N. peacekeeping operations is somewhat artificial. Traditionally, big-power troops have been sparingly used in these sensitive missions, at least until very recently.
Germany and Japan could be offered permanent seats without vetoes -- these days the Council votes by consensus; vetoes are rarely used. Neither Tokyo nor Bonn should be pressured to contribute troops to peacekeeping operations.
To maintain the balance between rich and poor nations, up to six new rotating seats might also be added, to be filled on a regional basis. Most would go to Asian, Latin American and African states. As a further safeguard, the majority required for enforcement actions could be increased.
Britain and France, overrepresented now, may resist any change, as may developing countries eager to see one of their own as a permanent member. Reapportionment will require months of tough negotiation. All the more reason to start now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (87%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; JAPAN GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (87%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); 

PERSON: BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993



821 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: London Journal;
A Dismal 'Season,' Right Down to Ziggy (the Rat)

BYLINE: By JOHN DARNTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, June 29

 BODY:
The Tower Bridge opens in the heat and gets stuck. Prince Charles hurts his back playing polo and misses the Procession of the Most Noble Order of the Garter. The British soccer team loses -- actually loses -- to the Americans.
It's been that kind of "season" in England this year. At a time when the parties are in full swing and the British are out there earnestly trying to have fun, with more ceremonies and horse formations than the Queen can wave a white glove at, from the races at Ascot to the Royal Regatta at Henley, things just keep going awry. 
 The parade of disasters has prompted some soul-searching in the press. Writing in The Sunday Times, Jonathan Miller was moved to catalogue some of the woes in search of higher meaning:
"The motorways are cracking up in the heat, our cricketers have lost six tests in a row, our footballers are unable to beat even the Americans. We are disgusted with our leaders and uninspired by those who seek to replace them. Isn't life marvelous!
"Baleful introspection is not a singularly British pursuit -- the French and Germans are at least as self-obsessed as we are -- but nowhere else is the cult of misery so entrenched and nowhere else is so much pleasure taken in a zeitgeist of gloom.
"The British are not merely miserable, they are brilliant at it. There seems no event, no matter how trivial, that cannot arouse us to a new frenzy of self-mortification."
 
To Hampstead's Horror
 England has not been lacking in "events" lately.
There was the opening of a new McDonald's in fashionable Hampstead in north London, home to what is called the "chattering classes," after a decade or so of delaying protests. Though the tables were done up in faux marble and ersatz Turners hung on the walls, clearly the barbarians were at the gates.
"So depressing," pronounced Margaret Drabble, the popular author of books on social change.
There was the bungled Grand National at Aintree. The steeplechase was called off after two false starts because on the second one nine riders missed the turnaround flag and their horses splashed and dragged themselves along to complete the course.
An inquiry by the Jockey Club came up with an official finding on what went wrong. To no one's great surprise it came down hard on the flagman, an elderly man with a baleful face who had received 24 for his day's work.
Another problem was Andrew Lloyd Webber's new $5 million musical "Sunset Boulevard." Its opening was delayed 13 days because the scenery began shifting and moving all on its own, as if a phantom were sabotaging the production.
 
Phones Are the Villains
 The cause was discovered by Sir Andrew himself when he visited the Adelphi Theater. "I made a call on my mobile phone and the set moved," he said. "I made a second call and it moved again." Hydraulic valves powering the sets were touched off by the transmissions.
And then there was the 100-year-old four-star hotel at Scarborough in Yorkshire that plunged into the sea. As the cliffs below gave way in great sections like a crumbling sand castle, a mesmerized crowd of hundreds watched and applauded when the west wing went crashing down.
The press covered it like the sinking of the Titanic. The papers were scandalized by a report, perhaps true, that the hotel guests were hurriedly evacuated from the dining room, but only after paying their breakfast bills.
One man who sees a thread in all these disasters is John Smith, the head of the opposition Labor Party. In the middle of a debate in the House of Commons with the Conservative Prime Minister, John Major, he brought them up one by one. The chamber rocked with laughter and the insinuation was clear: deny it as he might, Mr. Major was somehow responsible.
For relief, Britons have turned to their traditional subjects of light comedy: the antics of aristocrats, tales of sex mixing with politics and hair-raising court cases.
The first was supplied by the Marquess of Blandford, the 37-year-old heir to $152 million that is centered on Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire. Jamie, as he is often called by the press, has a troubled past; he has been arrested and fined for cocaine possession and spent time in a drug rehabilitation clinic in Paris.
A writer in The Independent said he "was born with a silver spoon in his mouth which he later used to shovel lorry-loads of cocaine up his nose."
For four days the Marquess was on the run after failing to pay maintenance to his estranged wife.. When finally he was forcibly taken from an apartment near his own in central London, the tabloids went wild. (Daily Mirror: "Junkie Jamie Is Collared After Punch-Up With Coppers.")
Though he was released after only three days in jail, some saw a double standard. Readers should ask "whether the police would have been so keen to make an arrest if James Blandford had not been a marquess," a friend, Lord Mancroft, wrote in The Evening Standard.
 
In Corridors of Power
 The scandal came from the just printed memoirs of Alan Clark, who served in Margaret Thatcher's Government. His book is a vivid recounting of booze and sex in the corridors of power. Writing of Mrs. Thatcher, he says, "Sexually, I have never come across any other woman in politics so attractive." He hastens to add that nothing occurred between them.
The court case that has enraptured the country is "the home-alone fish case." A 37-year-old electrician appeared in court in Berkshire on a complaint by the Royal Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals for having left his South American sucking loach and sucking plec fish to fend for themselves while he went off for several days to tend a friend's pub.
But the defendant produced a book by none other than an R.S.P.C.A. expert. It said it was O.K. to leave tropical fish alone for as much as two weeks. They eat the algae. Case dismissed.
Not so lucky was Lisa Chapman, an unemployed London waitress. She was fined $120 for leaving her pet rat, Ziggy, unattended for six days.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The closing of Tower Bridge in London for repairs after it became stuck was just part of an epidemic of "disasters" sweeping England. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SOCCER (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); HORSE RACING (78%); HORSES (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); ATHLETES (72%); WRITERS (69%); TRENDS (68%); MUSICAL THEATER (62%); 

PERSON: DARNTON, JOHN PRINCE CHARLES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



822 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Allies Feud on Economic Goals

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The United States, Japan and Germany are at loggerheads over an American proposal that the Group of Seven industrial nations set specific targets for annual economic growth when they meet next week in Tokyo, Western officials said today.
They said Japan and Germany have opposed Washington's calls for setting a 3 percent target for economic growth and setting a ceiling on the size of each country's trade deficit or surplus. 
 "How can someone promise 3 percent growth?" one German official asked. "It's not engineering that we're doing. It's economics."
Officials who oppose the American idea said it would often be impossible for countries to achieve such targets, and as a result, the Group of Seven as a whole, and its member nations individually, would lose credibilty. But American officials said the mere existence of such targets would create desirable external and internal pressures on governments to increase their growth rate.
 
No Targets in Communique
 Even though the Group of Seven communique will not call for the targets Washington sought, American officials said that as a result of their lobbying for faster growth, the communique would make a strong call to speed up growth and reduce trade imbalances and would recommend how those goals can be achieved.
In calling for specific targets, the Clinton Admnistration has the dual objectives of stepping up pressure on Germany to lower its interest rates and of pressing Japan to speed up its economic growth and cut its trade surplus.
American officials assert that faster growth in Europe and Japan as well as a smaller Japanese trade surplus will accelerate growth in the United States by increasing American exports. American officials also say faster growth among industrialized nations is vital for helping the developing world.
"We are exploring options to help create a growth agenda for the summit," an Administration official said. "What we're trying to do is get some meaningful elements to a growth package."
 
Meeting to Take Actions
 In interviews, officials said the Group of Seven would take these actions at the annual economic meeting in Tokyo next week:
*Moving forward with a fund to help privatize Russian industry. Last week the Clinton Administration acknowledged that the seven nations were having problems coming up with the $4 billion the Clinton Administration originally proposed for such a fund. Today officials said it would be scaled back to $1.5 billion. About $500 million would come from the Group of Seven nations and $1 billion from the International Monetary Fund, World Bank and other institutions.
*Setting up a new effort in which Group of Seven officials based in Moscow work to coordinate the $28 billion in overall aid promised to Russia. The I.M.F. opposes establishment of another aid office in Moscow, but officials said the seven nations might go ahead with the plan anyway.
*Creating a series of productivity missions in which hundreds of Russian managers would visit factories and farms in Western countries and Japan to learn from their counterparts abroad. Such missions were among the most highly praised aspects of the Marshall Plan.
"We would take a team of Russians to visit Western enterprises for a few weeks, and then bring them back to Russia, where they can pass their knowledge on to others," a top European official said. "It would have a multiplier effect. It wouldn't be a top-down thing, but a bottom-up thing that works."
 
Ceilings Are Proposed
 The United States also proposed setting a ceiling on current account surpluses or deficits of 2 percent of gross domestic proudct. If such a proposal were adopted, Japan would come under increasing pressure to reduce its surplus of $150 billion or about 3.5 percent of its gross domestic product.
While some European officials were sympathetic with this idea, the Japanese Government blocked it, Group of Seven officials said.
"It's mostly a bilateral problem betwen Japan and the United States," one European official said. The United States has a $50 billion trade deficit with Japan.
In pushing the seven nations to embrace such a ceiling, the United States hoped to line up other nations to support its efforts to press Japan to cut its trade deficit.
 
U.S. in Stronger Position
 The United States is in a better positon than most nations to propose a 3 percent growth target. France, Italy and Germany are all in a deep recession, while Britain has only recently pulled out of one. Japan is expected to grow only 1 percent this year, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
To achieve 3 percent growth, countries might, for example, reduce interest rates, cut taxes or begin large jobs programs. But many officials fear that these actions would aggravate inflation and budget deficits.
Only the United States and Canada are expected to come close to 3 percent growth this year, with many economists predicting 2.5 percent for the United States.
"After years of stagnation and recession, the United Sates now has a good chance to reach 2 to 3 percent growth this year," a German official said. "Everyone is happy about that. It's easy for the United States to ask others to do the same, but it's not so easy for us to achieve that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While the participants in the coming Group of Seven conference are already struggling with proposals not yet on the table, the hosts in Tokyo are far enough into their preparations that a worker was assigned to put poles in a planter of flowers outside the conference site to scare away crows. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES; GERMANY UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TRENDS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



823 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Political Strategy at Tokyo Talks

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
With trade issues deadlocked and resistance building to American aid strategy for Russia just days before the economic summit meeting in Tokyo, the Clinton Administration has turned its attention to the group's political declaration as a way of making the meeting a success.
"There's less progress on the economic side than the political side, so we're focusing on things we can control," a senior Administration official said. 
 But at a meeting of senior diplomats in Tokyo last week, the United States met obstacles on this front as well, as initiatives ranging from condemning Iran to developing a common policy on Bosnia have stalled.
An American and British call to criticize Iran for sponsoring terrorism, developing chemical, biological and nuclear weapons and committing human rights abuses has not yet won agreement, senior Administration officials said today. The political declaration, which is in draft form, has a blank space where a joint warning to Iran may eventually appear.
 
No Agreement on Iran
 "Everybody agrees that Iran is doing some nasty things, but there is a lot of concern about whether the economic summit is the proper forum in which to address that," an Administration official said. Other officials conceded that the other economic partners -- France, Canada, Japan, Italy and Germany -- do not share the American and British conviction that Iran should be singled out for condemnation.
As for the 14-month war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the seven have not yet agreed on what position to take. The group decided instead to wait until they meet again on the eve of the meeting to inject a paragraph or two, the officials said.
The group's indecision on Bosnia is in stark contrast to its strong warning to Serbian leaders at last July's economic summit meeting that it would support military action backed by the United Nations if it became necessary to get aid through to civilians in Sarajevo and other parts of the war-torn country. At that time, the seven called on Serbia and Croatia to "respect the territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina" and demanded that all military forces, except those of Bosnia, "be withdrawn or disbanded and disarmed with their weapons placed under effective international monitoring."
A year later, however, Serbia has consolidated its position and the industrialized countries have abandoned any effort to roll back territorial gains. Because negotiations are under way in Geneva to partition Bosnia and Herzegovina into three ethnic mini-states, senior Administration officials said the group wanted to see what may happen before drafting language on the Bosnia crisis.
 
U.N. Reform on Agenda
 The American side successfully pushed for a call for an end to the Arab boycott of Israel in the draft declaration. This year's declaration will also include an appeal for United Nations reform, including the need for preventive diplomacy, particularly the strengthening of its peace-keeping role, but will not discuss the Administration's proposal to expand the Security Council to include Japan and Germany, because, a senior Administration official said, "the subject is too contentious."
In deference to Japan, the group has not yet agreed on language committing its members to the indefinite extension of the treaty on preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. The Japanese argued that in light of their internal political problems and concern over North Korea's nuclear weapons program, they could not commit their Government to an indefinite extension of the treaty, Administration officials said. The group is expected to agree on slightly vaguer language that refers generally to what it calls the importance of the indefinite extension of the treaty.
"The problem is that we have to do this next week and without a government in Japan the acting government is not able to make a commitment even though the powers that be in Japan are all in favor of it," a senior Administration official said. "Certainly North Korea is a complicating factor and there are people in Japan who believe Japan shouldn't foreclose for all time their ability to develop nuclear weapons."
The political declaration will also call for Iraq and Libya to adhere to Security Council resolutions, urge Ukraine to ratify the first strategic arms treaty, sign the treaty to halt the spread of nuclear weapons and express support for Russian reforms.
President Clinton is also considering whether to use one of the three speeches he plans about the economic talks to call for a meeting of the 12-member Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation group in Seattle in November to promote economic cooperation and trade among the countries. The foreign ministers are currently scheduled to meet, but Mr. Clinton may try to elevate it to a meeting of heads of state. "The idea is being shopped around our government and around other governments before a decision is made," a senior Administration official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SERBIA (93%); JAPAN (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CROATIA (79%); FRANCE (58%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SERBIA (93%); JAPAN (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CROATIA (79%); FRANCE (58%); GERMANY (55%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); TRENDS (85%); BOYCOTTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); POLITICS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); TERRORISM (54%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



824 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Black and White Together and Apart

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:
To learn what it means to be black in the United States today, Walt Harrington, a white staff writer for The Washington Post Magazine, decided to crisscross the country and ask scores of black people what they thought and how they felt about their lives. Bidding goodbye to his wife, Keran, who is black, and their two children, he started from their home near Washington and, during three trips in his old Isuzu Trooper through the Deep South, the urban North and the Western states, he covered 25,000 miles on his voyage of discovery.
In "Crossings," he confirms what most of us already know or surmise: blacks and whites dwell in separate worlds. Even in a democracy, trying to break down this divide remains, as Gunnar Myrdal called it in his classic study a half-century ago, "An American Dilemma." Nevertheless, Mr. Harrington adds the skill of an engaged reporter, a personal stake in his subject and the ability to find fresh voices to talk openly about themselves and multi-racialism. 
 Among the most appealing voices in the book is that of the author's father-in-law, identified simply as Alex, a rural individualist living in southwestern Kentucky, who tells him that "somewhere back in nearly every black person's past is a little Southern farm." Alex says: "A lot of people try to forget that. I try to never forget."
Mr. Harrington discovers that class differences exist among blacks. In Montgomery, Ala., he talks to Bryan Stevenson, a black Harvard law graduate who directs the Alabama Capital Representation Resource Center, which is concerned with prisoners on death row. "Bryan earns $24,000 a year," the author writes. "While his Harvard classmates -- black and white -- get rich, he defends penniless murderers."
The author writes: "After my journey, frankly, I'm less frightened of black people, and I downright admire their humor, their worldly-wise skepticism and their amazing ability to make something out of nothing. I know now that black people are like me and unlike me at the same time." Visiting his old suburban Chicago high school, he is pleasantly surprised to find a growing integration and friendship of students of all races.
"Crossings" leaves reason for a limited amount of hope for better race relations in the future. Mr. Harrington puts it this way: "In short, race still matters, but it is no longer all that matters. It is time for whites to admit that despite all the changes of the last several decades, racism is still a plague on America. It is time for blacks to admit that as bad as racism is today, great strides have been made."
In "Up South," Malaika Adero, a writer and editor, assembles an informative collection of letters, editorials, documents, fiction excerpts and photographs that chart the internal migration of blacks from the agricultural South to the cities in the Northeast and Midwest during the first half of this century.
The letters and articles from such important black newspapers as The Chicago Defender tell fascinating stories of the frustrations, achievements and dreams of migrating families. They went "up South" to get jobs and to leave behind the discrimination that prevailed in the Southern states before the Federal civil rights legislation of the 1960's.
Migration intensified during and after World War I. A report in The Chicago Defender in 1916 reflects the optimistic mood: "The migration of the colored workers from the South to all sections of the country is the best thing that could befall the race. When our new [white northern] friends find that there is little difference save in color of the skin between themselves and us, that demon prejudice will lose at least a few of his horns."
Ms. Adero writes that at least one resolution in Congress was meant to stop the migration; it didn't succeed because the Government was unwilling to take on the sensitive issue. But there were vocal opponents to migration among black leaders, too. Booker T. Washington, the founder of the Tuskegee Institute, encouraged blacks to stay in the South because he saw agriculture as the key to economic development. "However, staying on the land was made nearly impossible for some," Ms. Adero says, "since white supremacists harassed farm families with arson, vandalism and murder."
The moving photographs in "Up South" bring to life the conditions of blacks on the road -- they look like those taken of Okies in their piled-up jalopies heading west during the Depression -- and in the crowded rooming houses of Chicago. Especially telling are the pictures by Russell Lee for the Farm Security Administration, illustrating how that Federal agency, which provided work for talented photographers and artists, contributed an invaluable record of struggling Americans all over the country.
To round out the portrait of the northern migration, Ms. Adero has wisely included excerpts from the works of several outstanding American poets and novelists: Langston Hughes, Zora Neale Hurston, Richard Wright, Ralph Ellison. Even reading one small chapter of Mr. Ellison's "Invisible Man," describing his search for work up North, ought to cause admirers of original American literature to read, or reread, his brilliant novel.
 
Crossings
A White Man's Journey Into Black America
By Walt Harrington
Illustrated. 466 pages. HarperCollins. $25.
 
Up South
Stories, Studies and Letters of This Century's African-American Migrations
Edited by Malaika Adero
Illustrated. 216 pages. New Press. $25.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Walt Harrington (Molly Roberts/HarperCollins); Malaiko Adero (Jules Allen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CROSSINGS: A WHITE MAN'S JOURNEY INTO BLACK AMERICA (BOOK); UP SOUTH (BOOK)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (63%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; HARRINGTON, WALT; ADERO, MALAIKA

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



825 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: If the Soup Is Cold, Speak Up, Already!

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
ONE New Yorker describes it this way:
"I have one night off a week. If I go to a restaurant and I have a bad meal, I'm ruined. I'd rather stay at home." 
 Another New Yorker, who eats out frequently, confesses: "I'm a very timid diner. I'm still intimidated by headwaiters and stuff."
Feel familiar? You're in good company. The diners with whom you're commiserating are David Bouley and Brian McNally, respectively, two of New York's most respected restaurateurs.
The industry's latest received, often repeated, wisdom is that a recession and a new national sophistication about food have revolutionized New York's restaurants for the better. Restaurants are on the run. Diners know more. There have never been more good places to eat, for greater value.
But ask New Yorkers how they feel about dining out and nearly every one of them says that it's a nerve sandwich: management attitude plus waiter attitude plus chef attitude -- a triple-decker that decks the diner.
What is it about the restaurant experience that even restaurateurs can't seem to escape? Why do many diners expect the worst, not the best?
New Yorkers say they go to restaurants for different, more modest, reasons now than they did in the 80's. Their expectations have changed, too. Many say they no longer want a precipitously fashionable or expensive experience -- whether classic French or new American -- but good food, good service and a few hours of well-being, to be cosseted instead of condescended to, relaxed instead of rock-and-rolled.
Based on talks with more than two dozen diners and restaurateurs in Manhattan, it turns out that there is, in fact, an emerging diner's bill of rights -- a new standard of expectation that, paradoxically, comes close to the oldest ideal in the business: you should feel like a guest when you're in a restaurant.
What should a restaurant be responsible for today? Just hash, or true happiness? Here's how it goes:
Sending something back because it isn't to your taste is a diner's right (don't try to eat it first).
"I don't even look at the food to see if the complaint is justified or unjustified," said Andre Soltner, the chef and owner of Lutece. "When I grew up in the restaurant business, the assumption was that the customer is always right. I lose a steak, or whatever. It's not the biggest deal."
What constitutes a good reason for returning something to the kitchen? Anything.
"We have a simple policy," explained Peter Hoffman, the chef and owner of Savoy. "If they don't like it, they don't have to eat it. They don't pay for it."
Making a request of any kind, whether to make a special order, to send something back for correction or to reject something not to your taste, is not a bad thing. It shouldn't brand the diner, or impugn the restaurant. A good restaurant should be professional in divining what a customer needs to be comfortable, but in the last degree only you know what you want. You hold your fate in your own hands, like the menu.
It's like that moment in a wedding ceremony when there is one last chance to object: If no one speaks up, you're married. When your food arrives, if you don't say no, you've said yes, for richer or poorer.
"The only frustration I have with our guests," said Danny Meyer, owner of Union Square Cafe, "is that, because of bad experiences they've had in other restaurants, they're afraid to let us correct something on the spot."
What do diners say?
Rob Kenner, a senior editor at Vibe magazine, recalls a late-night dinner at a bistro in TriBeCa. "We all ordered burgers," he said, "and when I took the bun off to put ketchup on, there was this caterpillar swaying back and forth, doing what looked like low-impact aerobics on the lettuce.
"I think somebody explained something about the freshness of the produce. But the waitress didn't really offer to replace the burger. I asked, 'Could I please have another?' When the waitress brought the check -- no deductions on it at all -- she said, 'Oh, I took the worm meat off your bill.' True story."
What should have happened? The consensus among restaurateurs asked was that the management should have apologized, the waitress should have suggested an immediate exchange, there should have been a deduction of the burger from the bill and something complimentary -- a drink or dessert -- offered.
Health considerations aside, what else about food and ordering it should be true of any good restaurant?
Within reason, special requests should be honored.
"In France, you go to a bistro or brasserie, and you ask for something a little bit different -- it's no complication," said Daniel Boulud, the chef and owner of Daniel. "We cannot force a customer to eat just what we do. 'No salt, no cream, no butter, no oil' -- if the request goes too far from the inspiration of the dish, then I just do a dish 'without inspiration.' "
Special requests are not always an issue of taste; there are health and dietary restrictions for restaurants to consider.
"Seventy percent of all Americans think that they should be able to order things that aren't on the menu," said Michael Pollan, the executive editor of Harper's magazine, quoting the Harper's Index. "I have three sisters, all vegetarians, so I'm used to that. When the family goes out, our orders are hilarious."
Dishes on the menu should arrive as described. Any potential surprises should be brought up in advance. "Our filet mignon of tuna is three and a half inches thick and it's almost sushi on the inside," said Mr. Meyer of Union Square Cafe. "The time to explain that to someone is as they're ordering."
You have the last word before the food goes into your mouth. "Is everything all right?" is not a rhetorical question. You have final approval -- not the waiter or management. If you don't want it and won't eat it, send it back.
"People are nervous in restaurants to start with and don't want to call attention to themselves," said Curtice Taylor, a photographer who is notorious among his friends for sending things back. "Waiters don't give you a dirty look or tell you you're crazy. The chef doesn't come running out and scream at you. It's no big deal."
Stephen Schiff, a staff writer at The New Yorker, said: "Diners, wittingly or not, set up the waiter as an authority figure, try to please the waiter, impress the waiter so that the waiter will think well of them. It's like trying to say something smart about a painting in front of a security guard."
Should you, in fact, have to give a reason for returning or exchanging something? Though most good restaurants will be surprisingly accommodating, it's the diner's responsibility to distinguish a request from an unreasonable whim.
"A customer will order something, may not like the way it looks and say, 'I didn't order that,' or say flat-out, 'Oh, my friend's dish looks better; I want that,' " said Anne Rosenzweig, the chef and owner of Arcadia. "We will, of course, accommodate them, but it can make you cry."
Customers sometimes put restaurateurs in awkward positions, she said. "At Arcadia, everything is made a la minute -- expressly for the customer, including our desserts," Ms. Rosenzweig said. "I think that people don't understand that once made, there's nothing we can do with it."
What else besides good food can a diner expect?
A warm welcome. "It is no longer acceptable to be 'icy hip,' " said Michael Batterberry, a founding editor of Food Arts magazine. "The girls with long legs in spandex who were taking reservations in the 80's during the 'feeding frenzy' -- it was like getting a date with Michelle Pfeiffer instead of a table -- that's gone."
Ms. Rosenzweig added, "It's very important for a customer right now to feel that a restaurant is a home away from home."
Pamela Fiori, editor in chief of Town & Country magazine, said: "I don't care how good the food is; people are not going to stand for service they consider shabby. This is what I hear most complaints about. It's almost never the food."
Expect patience on the staff's part and good answers to questions. One New Yorker walked into a restaurant and asked about the oysters on the menu. What kind were they? "Raw ones," the waiter said.
"I think that there is certainly a feeling that any kind of service person should be more flexible," said Mary Simons, editor in chief of Food & Wine magazine. "It doesn't matter if it's only your part-time job as you go on to become something else. There should still be a feeling of, 'I'm a part of this restaurant.' "
Whether the experience has been smooth or not, the diner should expect diplomacy on the restaurant's part. If the diner is displeased, the restaurant should be concerned.
"Most restaurants would prefer to have the opportunity to make someone happy," Mr. Meyer said, "than to hear about a guest's dissatisfaction as they exit -- at which point all you can do is apologize."
But at least one restaurateur broke ranks. "I think 99 percent of the time there is no reason for these requests," said Pino Luongo, owner of Le Madri and Coco Pazzo. "It's just the customer used to being spoiled by being a diner who wants to get things their own way. They want to be listened to. Most of the time it's the customer's desire to make his presence known in the kitchen and in the chef's mind.
"In Italy, you go, you like it, you go back. You don't like it, you don't eat it, you pay, and you never go back. This is more important feedback for us than the customer who expresses his or her disappointment."
Does happiness have its price? Should one expect of any restaurant what one would expect of a four-star restaurant?
"I don't think there's a ratio between price and good service," said Mr. Hoffman of Savoy, who returned three scrambled eggs -- 36 cents' worth -- at a Sunday brunch. "They were horrible," he explained.
Joyce Ravid, a photographer, recalled a good experience in a downtown diner.
"It was very hot and I wanted something to drink," she said. "I thought, 'A chocolate egg cream.' The friend I was with was a little skeptical. He grew up in the Bronx, and he said he knew all about egg creams. I thought -- what can they do to an egg cream?
"It came. It was tepid -- the temperature of bath water -- and it was flat: the two things you can do to ruin an egg cream. So I sent it back. The waitress was very nice, and they offered to try again."
Good diners, who know what they want and why, help make good restaurants. A restaurant can learn from such people, Ms. Rosenzweig said.
"Restaurantgoers should go in with very high expectations and should voice their concerns," she said. "Ultimately, as difficult as it might be for a restaurant to hear, it only helps to improve the experience for other diners."

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); DINING OUT TRENDS (77%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



826 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: Police Locate 2 More Bodies Buries on L.I.

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST FARMINGDALE, L.I., June 29

 BODY:
Beginning what they called "a long and extensive investigation" into a Long Island man's claims that he killed 17 prostitutes, law-enforcement officials found the bodies of two women today.
As state and local authorities, using dogs and helicopters, fanned out through the region, one body was found near Kennedy International Airport and the other near a county highway in the Hamptons. 
 The discoveries reinforced the claims of Joel Rifkin, an unemployed landscaper who stunned the police on Monday when they stopped him for a traffic violation and found the body of a woman in the back of his pickup truck. By this afternoon, he had been linked to five other killings, the authorities said.
One of the suspected victims, whose body was found last November in the Bronx, was identified today as Jenny Soto, 23, of Brooklyn.
 
Held in Protective Custody
 This morning, as his mother and sister watched, Mr. Rifkin, dressed in a white jumpsuit and standing with his mouth agape, was arraigned before Judge John E. Kingston in Nassau County Court in Hempstead on a count of second-degree murder. The charge related to the body, as yet unidentified, that was found in his Mazda pickup on Monday by two state troopers who had chased him off the Southern State Parkway and stopped him in Mineola because his vehicle did not have license plates.
At the request of his lawyer, Robert Sale, the judge ordered Mr. Rifkin held in protective custody in the Nassau County Jail until a bail hearing next week.
Neighbors today described Mr. Rifkin as a loner who lived with his widowed mother and his sister in a middle-class neighborhood of East Meadow. His major interests, they said, were gardening and cars.
To aid in their investigation, the state police said today that they had brought in a specialist on serial killers, Lieut. Edward Grant. He had helped develop the case against Arthur J. Shawcross, who was sentenced to life in prison for killing 11 women, many of them prostitutes and drug addicts, in the Rochester area between 1988 and 1989.
Law-enforcement officials said that Mr. Rifkin was precise about the number of killings he committed, but they were not yet willing to attest to the accuracy of the number. "His claim is the number 17," said Thomas A. Constantine, the state police Superintendent, at a news conference at the state police barracks here. But he added that it would take time to substantiate the claim.
"This will be a long and extensive investigation," he said. "It will not be done overnight."
On Monday night, state police officials first said Mr. Rifkin had confessed to 17 killings, then reduced the figure to "more than a dozen" deaths without explanation. Today, they were again using Mr. Rifkin's figure of 17.
Besides the body found in the pickup truck and those found in Queens and on Long Island today, the authorities said Mr. Rifkin was a suspect in the deaths of three other women whose bodies had been previously discovered in the Bronx and in Suffolk and Westchester Counties.
After Mr. Rifkin's arraignment today, Mr. Sale told reporters he believed his client was being tried unfairly in the press.
"At the risk of adding to the media circus that this arrest has generated, I think it's only fair to mention that in this country there is a presumption of innocence," he said. Mr. Sale said that he was retained by Mr. Rifkin's mother, Jeanne, on Monday, after Mr. Rifkin had been questioned for about 10 to 12 hours by the police.
 
Combing Computer Records
 The state police, meanwhile, were combing computer records of missing persons and fielding calls from law-enforcement agencies from throughout the metropolitan region that were seeking to learn if any of their unsolved cases might be connected to the Rifkin case. Superintendent Constantine said state investigators armed with search warrants seized "numbers of items," including some unspecified written material, from the East Meadow house Mr. Rifkin shares with his mother and his sister.
Col. Wayne Bennett, who heads the state police Bureau of Criminal Investigation, said that there were hundreds of missing young women in New York whose records would warrant review, and that the authorities would also be looking at cases in neighboring states, especially a series of slayings of young women in the Hartford area.
At a news conference in Brooklyn, Raymond W. Kelly, the New York City Police Commissioner, said that based on what the state police had told his department, he believed 15 of the 17 women that Mr. Rifkin claimed as victims were from New York City.
How such a large number of young women could have gone missing for so long without connections being drawn about their disappearances remained a mystery today. Law-enforcement officials, however, said that often, young women working as prostitutes lose contact with their families and others who would be the most likely to report them missing.
"There are a lot of people in this world who don't have a connection to their families," Colonel Bennett said.
"This is a big city," Commissioner Kelly added. "We have a lot of missing persons reports. And also, if you're reporting someone missing you may not necessarily identify them as a prostitute."
The Commissioner said it was his understanding that most of the victims were in their late teens to early 20's, and that while some had been buried, others may have been disposed of in drums that were submerged in waterways.
"We're still analyzing information from the state police," Commissioner Kelly said. "We've not yet spoken directly to this individual. We're certainly going to seriously consider opening cases. We're still sifting through some of this preliminary information that we've gotten from him."
Yesterday, a computer analysis of homicides by the victims' occupations showed that 76 women identified as prostitutes have been murdered in New York City in the last seven years. But while some of the cases were solved, the police could not provide a breakdown.
Based on statements made by Mr. Rifkin to state investigators, New York City detectives were investigating three cases in which the bodies of young women were found in steel drums and a fourth case in which suitcases containing body parts were found floating in city waters last spring and summer.
 
Body in Shallow Grave
 "This guy said something about putting bodies in drums," said a senior police official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "We know of these cases."
The two bodies the authorities found today were about 80 miles apart. About 9:30 A.M. today, said Superintendent Constantine, state police investigators found the decomposed body of a woman in a shallow grave about 80 feet off County Road 31 in Westhampton.
Several hours later, the Port Authority police found the skeletal remains of a woman in a grassy area about 200 feet off Rockaway Boulevard in Queens, near the eastern edge of Kennedy International Airport. Richard A. Brown, the Queens District Attorney, said the remains were found after the spinning rotors of a Port Authority helicopter searching the area blew away a discarded mattress, under which the body lay.
In both cases, law-enforcement officials declined to say precisely how they were led to the bodies. Mr. Brown would say only that his office had been contacted by officials on Long Island and advised to search. Superintendent Constantine explained more generally, however, that the information about the bodies has come from Mr. Rifkin.
"His details have been close enough to those things we knew already," he said.
Aside from Ms. Soto, the bodies the police are linking to Mr. Rifkin that had been found before his arrest have not been identified. In one case, the body of a woman was found in a wooded area in the Town of Southampton on Long Island last month. In the other case, a woman's partly decomposed body was found in December in Yorktown in Westchester County, near the border with Somers. The police believe she had been strangled.
Colonel Bennett said 50 state police officers and investigators were assigned to the case, with more officers expected to be added in the coming days. "We'll be looking at every single missing female in a computer," he said.
Officials in neighboring jurisdictions were eager to talk to the state police about the case in hopes of solving some of their own. Sgt. Scott O'Mara, a spokesman for the Connecticut State Police, said his agency had contacted the authorities in New York, and had been advised to hold off for a couple of days while they sorted out what promises to be a complicated investigation.
"At their request, we're going to slow down a bit," Sergeant O'Mara said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers investigating the claim by Joel Rifkin that he killed 17 prostitutes began the task of confirming it. Officers examined a body found yesterday near Kennedy International Airport. Another body was discovered near a county highway in the Hamptons, the police said. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; PROSTITUTION; SERIAL MURDERS CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); MURDER (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROSTITUTION (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SENTENCING (72%); HELICOPTERS (72%); JUDGES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (70%); BAIL (67%); AIRPORTS (57%); 

PERSON: MARKS, PETER; RIFKIN, JOEL; SOTO, JENNY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



827 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Prostitutes on Allen Street Remember Suspect From L.I.

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

 BODY:
The women who work as prostitutes along a park-like strip of Allen Street said yesterday that they recognized police photographs of Joel Rifkin and remembered him as a man who frequented the Lower East Side looking for sex.
"He used to constantly ask me out on dates, but I told him I didn't go out with strangers," said a tall, skinny woman of 30 in a short black jumpsuit. 
 She identified herself as Ruby and said she tended to deal only with established customers. "One time he said, 'Do you think I'm some kind of psycho?' "
There was no way to know, of course, whether the women were embellishing a weary existence with an imagined connection to the chilling events. And only one woman was willing to give a reporter more than a first name.
On Monday night, the women said, police officers came through the area with photographs of Mr. Rifkin and his first victim's description, telling of his arrest and his claim of killing 17 women.
The women of Allen Street said that many of their number were shaken enough to decide to drop out for the evening.
 
'A Sweet Girl'
 But they were back yesterday afternoon, already pushed by the economics of their drug habits. Their weary talk focused on the danger of their pursuit.
They said they recognized the woman as someone they had known as Tiffany, or sometimes Tracy.
"She was such a sweet girl," Lourdes Lazu, 24, lamented. She said she was saddened that one of Mr. Rifkin's victims may have been a young blond woman who worked along Allen Street. "That's her. I know it.
"We don't have too many blond girls who work over here. I can't believe it."
In the hot muggy afternoon, the women sat on the benches of a tree-lined boulevard that divides the traffic on Allen Street, watching and waiting for cars cruising by with potential customers.
They talked in subdued fashion among themselves.
 
'Lot of Weirdos'
 "You never know who you're getting into the car with," said Ruth, a 31-year-old mother of two. "There are a lot of weirdos out there, and a lot of them seek our business."
The women said no one really knew much about her background or circumstances of the woman they remembered as Tiffany, but they said that when they worked together on the Allen Street strip, there was a camaraderie.
"She was hard worker," Lourdes said. "We looked out for each other, but I haven't seen her in a few weeks. I wondered what happened to her."
Some said the strange man who used to cruise the area stuck in their minds now.
"I picked him up on 12th Street near Third Avenue not even a month ago," Lourdes said. "I never forget a face. He gave me $30," she said, for a sexual act. In the shade of the maple trees, two of the women paused to cook some crack in a vial the size of a test tube.
Nearby, children shot firecrackers off the fire escapes of the old brick tenements.
"I'm afraid that someone might kidnap me," Ruby said, as she put her feet up on the bench.
"You have people who drive around and stalk you," she added. "I call up my regular guys and tell them where to meet me. I haven't gone out with a stranger in about six months."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "He used to constantly ask me out on dates, but I told him I didn't go out with strangers," said Ruby. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; PROSTITUTION; SERIAL MURDERS PROSTITUTION (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ARRESTS (73%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; RIFKIN, JOEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



828 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
More than 100,000 investors in China have been swindled in a scheme in which a small-time businessman raised $175 million by issuing bonds and then squandered the money on luxuries for himself. For some Chinese it has been the first experience in having stocks or bonds go down instead of up. [Page A1.]
American pension funds find they have no clout in Japan. On annual-meeting day, a group of U.S. institutions voted against resolutions proposed by Japanese companies, but some of the companies denied that they had received any negative votes. [D1.] 
 France's Prime Minister ruled out any trade agreement at the summit meeting because America wants to impose punitive duties on European steel. [D2.] Japan and Germany are objecting to a U.S. proposal for targets for annual economic growth. [A8.]
The Federal Reserve was criticized for not charging fees for examining the books of foreign banks with U.S. operations. [D2.]
 
Business Technology
Makers of medical devices are moving production out of the country because of the regulatory quagmire at the F.D.A. [D1.]
A Kodak subsidiary has freed "Snow White" of scratches and grime that the film has accumulated over 56 years. [D5.]
 
The Economy
Three fresh economic reports suggest the economy is weaker. The index of leading indicators dropped 0.3 percent, home sales plunged and consumer confidence worsened again. [D1.]
Reed Hundt was nominated to head the F.C.C. Mr. Hundt, a law school classmate of the President, would succeed Alfred Sikes. [D1.]
 
Companies
American Express named Jeffrey E. Stiefler as its president. He has been the head of the IDS Financial Services unit. Harvey Golub, the chief executive, added the title of chairman. [D1.]
Several companies will voluntarily reduce pollutants that cause "ozone smog" to levels below what the law requires. [D4.]
Philip Morris will buy a 49 percent stake in a tobacco factory in Russia and ultimately take a majority interest. [D4.]
Whirlpool won a $30 million prize for designing a new refrigerator that saves energy best and is easy on the environment. [D4.]
Boeing has received an order from Japan Air System for 777 wide-body airliners valued at $820 million. [D4.]
The chairman of UAL criticized Japan, saying it did not permit free trade in air transportation. [D4.]
Sandra W. Meyer has resigned as Citicorp's officer for corporate affairs and will join Clark & Weinstock. [D4.]
The F.C.C. gave Rupert Murdoch the permanent waiver he needs to be able to acquire The New York Post. [B1.]
The broadcast networks will provide a new parental warning before television shows laden with murder and mayhem. [A1.]
 
Markets
Cash levels in stock mutual funds declined in May for the first time in 1993, and the trend seems to be continuing in June. [D2.]
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 11.35, to 3,518.85, a day after the stock market made its best showing in weeks. [D6.]
New York City bonds could be downgraded by Standard & Poor's, a securities rating service. [D13.]
Oil prices settled modestly higher.[D16.] The dollar fell against most major currencies but rose against the yen. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
Lifetime Products sold two units to an executive and the spouse of another to resolve debts. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D6.]
Mezzina/Brown made its first acquisition. The agency is buying Wills & Evans. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (53%); JAPAN AIR SYSTEM CO LTD (52%); BOEING CO (52%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (67%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); SMOG (62%); AIRLINES (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



829 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: A Nominee For Head Of F.C.C.

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
President Clinton today nominated Reed Hundt, a Washington lawyer and a law school classmate, to head the Federal Communications Commission.
Mr. Hundt, 45, will succeed Alfred Sikes, a Republican who resigned when Mr. Clinton took office. The acting chairman of the five-member commission, which has two vacancies, is James A. Quello. 
 Mr. Hundt's prime promoter in the White House has been Vice President Al Gore, who attended St. Albans preparatory school in Washington with Mr. Hundt and has relied on him for economic advice since 1984.
Mr. Hundt, who is primarily an antitrust litigator, also served as a member of Mr. Clinton's transition team on economic matters. He has most recently been a partner in the Washington law firm of Latham & Watkins.
 
Emphasis on High Technology
 Mr. Gore has assumed the role of Administration point man on telecommunications issues, including the development of high-technology "information superhighways," and White House officials stressed Mr. Hundt's experience in those matters.
"Telecommunications innovations are constantly changing the way we as Americans communicate with each other and with the world," the President said in a statement announcing the nomination of Mr. Hundt, who attended Yale Law School with Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Hundt has also been active in environmental regulation, which is another part of Mr. Gore's portfolio. He is co-chairman of the international disputes subcommittee of the environmental litigation committee of the American Bar Association.
Mr. Clinton's decision to nominate Mr. Hundt to head the commission came after the fortunes of several other candidates rose and fell during recent weeks. Antoinette D. Cooke, the counsel to the Senate communications subcommitee, withdrew her name from the running for the chairman's post a few weeks ago, citing personal concerns.
Others who had been considered for the job included Dennis Leach, an aide to Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, and Thomas Casey, another Washington lawyer. Mr. Dingell, who has a powerful role in overseeing the telecommunications process as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, had been considered an important factor in the F.C.C. nomination process.
The nomination requires Senate confirmation.
By law, two of the commission's five members must represent a party not occupying the White House. According to published reports, Mr. Clinton has apparently settled on Regina M. Keeney, 37, counsel to Republican members of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, to fill the other vacancy. But Ms. Keeney's nomination was not announced today.
Each of the commissioners serves a five-year term.
Mr. Hundt was active in the passage of the Cable Television Consumer Protection Act of 1992, which imposed added regulation on cable rates.
A spokeswoman for the Vice President's office said that Mr. Hundt's experience in antitrust law would be valuable in helping the commission pick its way through a growing number of mergers and acquisitions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MERGERS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUNDT, REED; QUELLO, JAMES A; SIKES, ALFRED C BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (79%); JOHN DINGELL (58%); THOMAS M CASEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



830 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
American Express Names New President

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
The American Express Company yesterday appointed Jeffrey E. Stiefler, the head of its IDS Financial Services unit, to be its president. Mr. Stiefler is a longtime protege of Harvey Golub, the company's chief executive, who was named to the additional position of chairman.
Mr. Golub, who has been president since 1991, was named chief executive in February after James D. Robinson 3d resigned amid increasing complaints from a number of dissatisfied shareholders. At that time, Richard M. Furlaud was named nonexecutive chairman; he will now become the chairman of the executive committee. 
 "The C.E.O. was doing too much," Mr. Golub said, referring to himself.
Mr. Stiefler will oversee IDS, an investment and insurance sales company, and the American Express Bank, which concentrates on international private banking. He will also oversee corporate efforts in technology, quality and re-engineering -- in other words, cost-cutting.
Mr. Golub will look after Travel Related Services, which is the credit-card and travel agency unit, and Lehman Brothers, the brokerage firm that American Express is nursing back to financial health in preparation for a possible sale next year.
Mr. Stiefler's appointment reflects the increasing importance of IDS within the travel and financial services company. Mr. Golub, a former consultant with McKinsey & Company, was hired to head IDS in 1984. He developed a system in which the company's brokers charge customers to develop financial plans; these plans recommend that they buy IDS mutual funds and insurance products. Helped by an aging population that is saving for retirement and the current boom in mutual funds, IDS has been the fastest-growing part of the American Express empire.
Mr. Stiefler, 46, became president of IDS in 1990 and chairman the next year. Before joining IDS in 1983 as a marketing executive, he ran the Southwest division of Citicorp's finance company and was the head of retail banking for Citibank in Manhattan. He left IDS for a year in 1986 to become president of the Philadelphia Savings Fund Society, a large savings bank.
At IDS, Mr. Stiefler has been undertaking an elaborate strategic planning effort that asks the question, "What sort of company could put IDS out of business and how IDS could become that company?" The answers have led to myriad changes in the company's operating procedures, its technology, and the way it pays its sales force.
 
Linking the Images
 Mr. Golub has been moving toward more tightly linking IDS and Travel Related Services. IDS offices will likely be renamed American Express Financial Services.
"There are a large number of card members who are very interested in purchasing financial services from American Express and they are more interested if the services operate under the American Express name," Mr. Stiefler said.
The management changes will be effective Aug. 1. Mr. Stiefler's successor at IDS has not been named.
Mr. Golub has quickly rebuilt the company's credibility with investors. Under Mr. Robinson, the company posted large losses related to its Optima revolving credit card and its Shearson brokerage unit.
Mr. Golub sold the company's retail brokerage subsidiary to the Primerica Corporation. And he is trying to slash the operating costs at the company's credit-card unit, which has been losing customers because of increased competition and the weak economy.
Moreover, Mr. Golub has been trying to refashion American Express's slick and competitive corporate culture. "We want to be less hierarchical, more open, more flexible and more informal," Mr. Golub said in an interview yesterday.
Mr. Stiefler will help this effort, Mr. Golub said. "He doesn't hesitate to tell me when he thinks I'm wrong," Mr. Golub said. "And that creates a useful example of how we would like people to communicate."
Mr. Stiefler has already helped change the way American Express communicates with investors. Thomas P. Facciola, an analyst with S. G. Warburg & Company, said he was impressed with Mr. Stiefler's candor in a recent presentation. "He understood this is still a company in recovery and made no excuses for the past," Mr. Facciola said.
Over all, he said he had been pleased with Mr. Golub's decisive actions and his increased openness with investors. "There are no more grand schemes," Mr. Facciola said. "They can't be slick any more. That's over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey E. Stiefler

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AMP (NYSE) (58%); STAN (LSE) (56%); 2888 (HKSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (67%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (58%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (58%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES APPOINTMENTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); SALES FORCE (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); RETAIL BANKING (69%); SALES COMPENSATION (69%); AGING TRENDS (64%); PRIVATE BANKING (55%); TRAVEL AGENTS (52%); AGING (50%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; STIEFLER, JEFFREY E; GOLUB, HARVEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



831 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: U.S Indicts 31 for Extortion Plots In Minority Hiring in Construction

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS

 BODY:
Thirty-one people were indicted yesterday on charges of running eight groups that violently extorted thousands of dollars from New York building contractors under the guise of obtaining construction jobs for black and Hispanic workers.
Federal attorneys in Brooklyn said 22 of the 31 indicted were arrested by F.B.I. agents and the police in raids that started yesterday. Two others are reported to be in prison on other charges and seven have not been found. 
 The indictments and arrests add another chapter in the contentious history of minority hiring in the construction industry. Law-enforcement officials and people in the construction industry say the proliferation of the extortionist groups are the jagged edge of a movement that has been trying to give black and Hispanic workers a toehold in the largely white and exclusionary building trades since the 1960's.
New York and Federal officials said the leaders of the so-called minority coalitions purported to provide workers to help contractors meet Federal and local laws that required them to hire minimum percentages of minority workers. Instead, the officials said, the gangs extorted protection money, sometimes by beating owners and foremen, disrupting work or preventing workers from entering job sites.
"These groups, falsely representing themselves as working to increase minority employment in the construction industry, were actually extorting money, jobs and contracts for security to enrich coalition leaders," said Zachary W. Carter, Federal Attorney in Brooklyn.
Unlike some other cases in which whites used minority-group confederates to obtain contracts set aside for minority-owned companies, most of the 30 men and one woman indicted yesterday are black or Hispanic.
But while many operated under such names as Black and Latin Economic Survival and Hispanic and Black Coalition, law-enforcement officials emphasized that they had no ties to legitimate civil-rights groups that had been seeking wider employment of women and minorities in the building trades.
The authorities acted after the police had amassed hundreds of reports of incidents and payoffs.
One example listed in the indictment said five men demanded $8,000 from executives of the Arson Demolition Company last year and that company officials did pay $1,000 to insure peace at an unidentified construction site.
Since even a short work disruption can cost thousands of dollars, many contractors are willing to hire a few people immediately, or pay to stop the picketing, law-enforcement officials say.
In all, the officials said, several hundred workers linked with the coalitions were either given jobs or no-show positions at scores of construction projects. Most of those who actually did work at projects had to turn over part of their salaries to the extortionists, these officials added.
The violence and threats listed in the indictments yesterday parallel those by similar groups that have become active in other cities, principally Los Angeles.
 
Lucrative Activities
 Law-enforcement officials would not estimate how much the illegal groups might have extorted over the years. But they did say that the groups' activities became so lucrative that battles with semiautomatic weapons sometimes broke out between rival groups over which would get to shake down which companies and which sites.
Police have estimated that at least 35 such coalitions have operated in New York in recent years, and last year, when the activities seem to have reached a peak, four men were indicted in Manhattan for labor racketeering charges linked to minority coalitions.
The Dinkins administration announced a crackdown on the coalitions a year ago after two Queens men who had sought jobs for minorities were murdered. A police raid a year ago on the Park Slope headquarters of the United Brooklyn Coalition found eight guns and led to the arrest of 30 people.
The projects at which the extortion and intimidation took place included the Greenpoint Hospital in Brooklyn, Public School 24 and Public School 154 in Queens, the 23d Street Bridge in Queens and demolition at the Metrotech site in Brooklyn.
Industry officials say the coalitions' activities added to the cost of construction, costs largely borne by the taxpayers because the recession has hit Government projects less hard than private ones.
The three-year investigation of the minority hiring shakedowns was carried out by the New York Police Department's Major Case Squad, the New York Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Federal Department of Labor's Office of Racketeering.
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly told a news conference at the United States Attorney's Office in Brooklyn that the illegal activities of the coalitions "have plagued New York City" for years.
 
Padding Their Pockets
 Mr. Kelly added that money extorted from construction companies and kickbacks paid by legitimate workers were being paid to leaders of the coalitions who were "padding their own pockets at the expense of the community."
The coalitions based most of their operations in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, and some had offices in Manhattan.
The groups named in the indictment are: United Brooklyn Construction Workers Coalition, United New York Construction Workers, United Hispanic Construction Workers, Black and Latin Economic Survival, New Alliance, United Construction Workers Coalition, Hispanic and Black Coalition and Black Power.
Most of those arrested yesterday were later released on $50,000 bail each. In addition to the eight main groups mentioned in yesterday's indictment, the document named other groups whose founders were either linked with the coalitions, or had ties to security companies that collected money from construction companies.
They are: New York Organization of Minority and Women Business Enterprises, United We Stand, Afro Construction and Demolition, Afro Enterprises, Afro Security, Epiphany Enterprises, K.N.T. Contracting Company, On-Site Consultant Services Inc., Royal Security and LM Security Services. The last company was located in Westbury, L.I., the only group named in the indictment that was based outside New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) ; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) ; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); DISCRIMINATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION; EXTORTION; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) ; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION CONSTRUCTION (96%); EXTORTION (93%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); INDICTMENTS (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (78%); ARRESTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); STRIKES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); ARSON (73%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (63%); 

PERSON: LYONS, RICHARD D

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



832 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Sovern Era Ends at Columbia: A 'Most Extraordinary Chapter'

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

 BODY:
"The only times I heard an audience really gasp were when Salman Rushdie was introduced at a dinner in Low Memorial Library, and last April, when John Kluge announced a gift to the university of $60 million."
Michael I. Sovern, the ebullient president of Columbia University, was recently reviewing his rapidly winding down 13-year tenure with such enthusiasm that it seemed as if he were about to start all over again. 
 A year ago, Mr. Sovern, 61, announced his intention to resign from the presidency at the end of this month to return to teaching law at the university and to spend more time with his wife, Joan, who is ill with cancer. In February, the trustees announced that he would be succeeded by George E. Rupp, 50, the former president of Rice University in Houston.
 
Rich Part of Long History
 Mr. Sovern is leaving a number of significant problems, including a $15 million budget deficit, a lag in some staff and faculty salaries and a widely perceived need to shift the university's emphasis from research to undergraduate education. Mr. Rupp has already begun a shake-up that involves replacing three deans and a vice president -- a move Mr. Sovern said he did not want to discuss.
Despite these problems, Mr. Sovern's champions and critics agree that the last 13 years have been, in the words of G. G. Michelson, chairwoman emeritus of the university's trustees, "one of the richest, most extraordinary chapters in Columbia's entire 238-year history."
The two communal gasps that Mr. Sovern spoke of are illustrative. To him, they were welcome public reactions to the sorts of intellectual high-wire acts that he takes delight in performing: standing up for free speech to dramatize what the university stands for and, as he expressed it back in 1980 on the day he assumed the presidency, being "shameless in our calls for financial help."
In 1991, when the Columbia School of Journalism was planning a black-tie dinner in the rotunda of Low Library to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the First Amendment, Mr. Sovern invited Mr. Rushdie, the author of "The Satanic Verses," to make his first public appearance in the United States since the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini called for his death in 1989. Mr. Rushdie's surprise appearance at Columbia electrified the audience and made headlines around the world.
 
Emphasis on Setting Tone
 "What's important in a job like mine is the tone you set, like speaking out for freedom of expression," Mr. Sovern said in an interview in his Morningside Heights office. "And you notice Columbia doesn't have a speech code, as do some universities."
He was referring to the so-called hate-speech restrictions that have been adopted on some campuses. "Obviously, I don't take full credit for our not having such a code," he said, "but my belief is that the answer to hate speech is more speech, not more hate."
Mr. Sovern also raised more money than any Columbia president in history. Under his leadership, the endowment soared to $1.8 billion from $525 million.
"He provided a jolly environment, a cheery air, and people liked to give money to him," said Robert E. Pollack, a professor of biological sciences who served as dean of Columbia College from 1982 to 1989.
Much of the growth of the endowment, of course, reflects the boom years of the stock market when portfolios floated up in value like Montgolfier balloons. Some impressive-looking contributions to the endowment turned out to be drains on it since the projects they were intended to support proved more costly than expected.
 
Fund-Raising Complaints
 There have also been complaints about the objectives of fund-raising in the Sovern era. Professor Pollack, for example, said he was disturbed that no major gift had been earmarked for the deteriorating 50-year-old Butler Library.
A major gift, the $60 million pledged earlier this year by Mr. Kluge, the founder and chairman of Metromedia Company, was crucially important, Mr. Sovern said, because all of it will be for minority scholarships at Columbia College.
Under Mr. Sovern, Columbia has built minority enrollment to 35 percent, the highest percentage among Ivy League institutions. It became co-ed in 1982 without undermining Barnard College, its affiliated women's liberal arts college across the street on the west side of Broadway. Barnard has maintained its independence while freely exchanging students and faculty members. In addition, under Mr. Sovern Columbia established the Harriman Institute for training and research on Russia and the former Soviet Union.
His highest priority, Mr. Sovern said, has been keeping professors' salaries, on average, ahead of inflation. "That's how you keep good teachers," he said. "It's helped us to fight off raids from other institutions, and to carry out a few successful raids ourselves."
His critics look askance at some of his victories. Donald C. Hood, a professor of psychology who led a faculty challenge last year of Mr. Sovern's handling of the budget, said that the arts and sciences faculty had been cut 6 or 7 percent over the last three years. Professor Hood also said that the salaries of some faculty members had not kept pace with inflation.
Mr. Sovern also said that since 1980 he had added 120 endowed chairs in fields ranging from Japanese law to electrochemistry.
But Professor Pollack said Columbia had fallen well behind Harvard, Yale and Stanford by endowing "extraordinarily few" chairs for the college and the graduate school of arts and sciences.
"It's much easier to find a corporate donor to endow a chair in the law school or the business school," he said."
Robert J. Nelson, a spokesman for the university, said that Mr. Sovern's fund raising in 1990 had included $22 million to endow chairs named after Lionel Trilling, Jacques Barzun and others to honor the art of teaching.
Asked about any lapses or failures over the last 13 years, Mr. Sovern smiled broadly. "I'm very kind to myself," he said. "I tend to forget my mistakes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "What's important in a job like mine is the tone you set, like speaking out for freedom of expression," said Michael I. Sovern, the president of Columbia University, who is spending his last day in the job. "And you notice Columbia doesn't have a speech code, as do some universities." (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (71%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); RICE UNIVERSITY (56%); RICE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); RICE UNIVERSITY (56%); RICE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (71%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); WRITERS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); CANCER (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (67%); JOURNALISM (61%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (53%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H; SOVERN, MICHAEL I; RUPP, GEORGE E MICHAEL IRA 'MICHAEL I' SOVERN (93%); SALMAN AHMED RUSHDIE (74%); JOHN WERNER KLUGE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



833 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Frustration for Medical Innovators

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
Early last year, American Biomed Inc., a small medical equipment company in Woodlands, Tex., filed a Food and Drug Administration application for approval to market a device that would remove cholesterol from clogged arteries by simultaneously grinding up and vacuuming out the fatty deposits. Surgeons who had used it in trials said it worked well.
But 18 months later, the company still awaits word on when or even if its product may be sold. 
 It is a limbo familiar to a growing number of makers of medical devices, an industry with $40 billion of annual sales and a foreign-trade surplus of $4.1 billion. But in their frustration, many companies are shipping jobs and capital overseas, a recent Congressional report states.
"We're having to move out of the United States," said David Summers, the chairman and chief scientific officer of American Biomed, a small company that has other types of medical catheters and vein-clearing devices on the market but sees its future in the cholesterol tool. "We just can't take it anymore."
 
Moving Operations Abroad
 American Biomed has built a manufacturing plant in Canada so it can begin shipping its product for clinical trials abroad without waiting for F.D.A. approval. It has also set up a joint venture in France to conduct the trials. "The jobs we would have added here will go to Canada and France," Mr. Summers said.
The F.D.A., conceding that its regulatory backlog needs attention, late last week announced new procedures intended to expedite the review and approval process for medical devices, a diverse field that includes artificial hips, heart defibrillators, cancer diagnostic tests and surgical tools. The industry considers the measures a good start, but says they do not go far enough.
The agency, however, intent on avoiding future debacles like the faulty Bjork-Shiley artificial heart valves implicated in some 300 deaths, says that the industry will simply have to reconcile itself to a greater degree of scrutiny than in years past.
"For a long time, this center focused on making sure we were doing everything to nurture a growing industry," said Dr. Bruce Burlington, who in February was appointed director of the F.D.A.'s Center for Devices and Radiological Health. But now, he said, well-publicized problems with a few products "have led people to consider that we need a medical component that is an ongoing part of the evaluation of devices."
American Biomed is one of scores of American medical-device companies that have introduced new products abroad. According to a report released earlier this month by the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, 49 American-made medical devices that remain tied up in F.D.A. review in this country, many of them potentially life-saving products like artificial heart valves and improved cardiac pacemakers, have been approved for sale in Europe, Japan and elsewhere.
Not only are sales and jobs being lost to overseas markets, the report says, but many of the small companies that populate the industry may be driven out of business altogether by regulatory delays. The process also means that Americans are denied health-care options that could be safer, more effective or less costly than those on the market today.
 
Traveling for Therapy
 "Doctors and patients in the United States face the daunting prospect of either having to travel to a foreign land to have access to the latest medical technology," the report stated, "or having to accept a less effective and/or a higher-risk treatment for their illness in the United States."
At issue are two types of approval. One is for devices that the makers describe as basically equivalent to products already on the market; if the F.D.A. agrees with the manufacturer's assessment, the device can quickly enter the market. In each of the last three years, the F.D.A. has received at least 5,700 applications of this type. Traditionally, such review has taken 90 days or less, and at the beginning of 1992 only a handful of applications took longer. But now, about 1,400 of these applications have been pending for more than 90 days.
The second type of approval that is drawing criticism involves truly new devices unlike anything already in medical use. These, submitted at the rate of 60 or 70 a year, face much greater scrutiny that can include clinical trials on human patients. In the 1990 fiscal year, 47 devices received F.D.A. approval. In the 1992 fiscal year, which ended last September, only 12 products were authorized.
Industry executives say the F.D.A. has grown much more cautious after the problems with the Bjork-Shiley heart valve, the widespread reports of autoimmune diseases in women who received silicone breast implants, and the generic drug scandal of the late 1980's, in which some F.D.A. reviewers were found to have colluded with drug manufacturers in fraudulent applications.
 
Conflicting Obligations Seen
 But the executives and some consumer health-care advocates say that under a get-tough policy imposed by David Kessler, the Commissioner of the F.D.A., the agency has placed so much emphasis on stringent review that it has forgotten that part of its charter is to approve new devices.
"The pendulum may swing back eventually, but the pendulum at F.D.A. is more like a wrecking ball," said Kshitij Mohan, vice president, scientific affairs, for Baxter International's Hospital Business Group, and a former F.D.A. official. "To the patient, the impact may be the same if you deny good technology as if you allow bad technology on the market."
At the F.D.A., Dr. Burlington said he was establishing a program to speed review of critical devices.
Beginning this week, the F.D.A. is putting in place a sort of four-step weeding-out process that follows several of the House subcommittee's recommendations. First, devices that offer new options to patients and physicians will get expedited review, with potentially life-saving devices moved to the head of the line. In the second step, devices will be given priority on the basis of perceived risk; high-risk devices will get more staff attention, while low-risk devices will get less.
The third step is to reject applications judged to be incomplete or procedurally troublesome, rather than letting the F.D.A. staff nurse them along, as has been the practice in the past. And finally, for any device under review for more than 90 days, the maker can request a status report that must be sent within three days.
 
Sticking to Standards

 
 Despite the streamlining, Dr. Burlington said the agency would not back away from its stringent standard of review, which he said included judging the medical effectiveness and safety of new products.
But device makers fault the medical component of the review process because they say it requires a type of clinical trial more suited to new drugs. Drugs are typically tested in "randomized" trials with thousands of patients; some get the test drug, others a placebo. But manufacturers say such trials are impractical for most devices and impossible for many, like heart pacemakers that require surgical procedures that most physicians would be reluctant to perform on a placebo basis.
"They're trying to take a pharmaceutical approach and apply it to devices, and it's just not relevant," said Grant Heidrich, a venture capitalist with the Mayfield Fund, who has invested in several medical device start-up companies. "We counsel our companies, 'Don't screw around with the F.D.A.; let's move these trials to Europe where there's a reasonable process,' " he said. "That comes up in every board meeting."
For those who flee, the idea is not necessarily to forgo the American market altogether -- which represents roughly half of the global market -- but to get a start elsewhere, begin selling the product and hope to come back to the United States eventually to navigate the F.D.A. process.
Dr. Burlington disputed the critics' characterization of the review process, saying that while the agency is seeking more clinical data, it is not using the same procedures required for drugs. He said that companies might have many reasons to move overseas but that he did not think the F.D.A. was the main one. "If a company says, 'Hey, we've got to move overseas,' well, I just don't see it," he said. The main reason for such moves, he said, might be economic.
Not so, said Rob Michiels, president and chief operating officer of Interventional Technologies Inc., a San Diego-based maker of catheters, which, as with American Biomed's device, are used to clear arteries. "In our case, the manufacturing costs are always higher over there," he said of Europe. "The only consideration is the time delay in regulatory."
 
Comparison With Germany
 Interventional's first device was just approved for sale in the United States after two years and two months in review. For its second, a device used in angioplasty, the company got permission to begin clinical trials in Germany within 34 days; the same process took 13 months in the United States. "By the time we're approved in the U.S., that product will have been available in Europe on the free market for three to four years," Mr. Michiels said.
Dr. Burlington said morale and efficiency had already improved at the agency, noting that it would approve 24 new devices this fiscal year, double last year's rate, although still well below the rate in previous years. "I see renewed energy," he said. "I see people being productive."
But some industry leaders are more optimistic, too. "My sense right now is that things have changed," said Frank Fischer, president and chief executive of Ventritex Inc., which recently received approval for an implantable electronic device to control overly rapid heart beats. "I'm very encouraged by the words and deeds so far of Bruce Burlington."
Alan Magazine, president of the Health Industry Manufacturers Association, the industry's main trade group, said he was concerned that the new weeding-out approach might speed review of a few devices by slowing down others. But he, too, is hopeful that Dr. Burlington can make a difference. "I think he is an honest broker," he said. "He has the luxury of not being part of the past and he is realistic about the problems."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Bruce Burlington, director of the F.D.A.'S Center for Devices and Radiological Health, said the public wants closer regulatory scrutiny of medical devices. He sat next to a model of a new artificial hip joint. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "A Growing Backlog" shows status of Food and Drug Administration applications for approval of medical devices in the last three fiscal years. (Source: Food and Drug Administration) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABMI (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (69%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA) AMERICAN BIOMED INC (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); CENTER FOR DEVICES & RADIOLOGICAL HEALTH (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA) FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); CENTER FOR DEVICES & RADIOLOGICAL HEALTH (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (69%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); US FDA REVIEW (90%); US FDA APPROVALS (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); CHOLESTEROL (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (89%); BIOMEDICAL & DENTAL MATERIALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (86%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (77%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CANCER (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (65%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M; FISHER, LAWRENCE M; BURLINGTON, BRUCE (DR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



834 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: New Data Point to Weakening U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
In a three-pronged indication of a weakening economy, fresh reports today showed a plunge in new-home sales and unsettling, albeit moderate, declines in consumer confidence and the Government's chief forecasting index.
Although most analysts continued to expect growth for the second half of the year to exceed that of the very sluggish first half, today's data prompted expressions of concern that the risks to further expansion had grown.
 
'Economy Could Turn Down'
 "The economy could turn down -- or it could slow down" some more, said Larry Moran, a Commerce Department economist. He referred specifically to the three-tenths of 1 percent decline in the department's index of leading indicators for May, the fifth straight month in which the index reversed direction. The index had risen a revised two-tenths of 1 percent in April. 
 Home sales dropped so sharply in May -- 21 percent -- that a huge April gain was more than wiped away, the Government also reported. The plunge, the biggest in 13 years, came despite the fact that buyers enjoyed some of the lowest interest rates in two decades and relatively appealing prices.
In a third report, the Conference Board found that consumer confidence in June declined for the second straight month, with sentiment -- the poorest since October -- falling for both current conditions and those in the months immediately ahead.
"The continued low level of consumer confidence suggests that the economy remains weak," said Fabian Linden, compiler of the survey data for The Conference Board, a business-sponsored research group in New York.
Although there have been some recent encouraging economic reports, including slackened inflation and a ninth consecutive month in which consumers felt comfortable enough to take on additional installment debt, uncertainty over the fate of the Administration's budget and health plans is widely cited as a source of restraint.
"The fiscal package is pretty austere," observed David B. Bostian Jr., chief economist for the Wall Street firm of Herzog Heine Geduld. Mr. Bostian, who met privately with a top official at the Federal Reserve on Monday, said he got the impression that the official was disinclined to heed calls by some colleagues that the Fed should make a pre-emptive strike against inflation by raising short-term interest rates.
Such a strike seems increasingly less likely, however, in light of the latest poor economic data and the fact that a budget containing large tax increases and some measure of spending reduction is likely to be enacted this summer.
 
 
'Dramatic Proof'
 Indeed, Republicans may use the suspect state of the economy to argue against the budget. Bob Dole, the Senate Republican Leader, stepped forward to cite today's three reports as "dramatic proof that the last thing the sluggish economy needs is the Clinton tax plan."
On Friday, the Labor Department is scheduled to publish figures for the June job market, usually the most important indicator for any month.
The three-tenths of 1 percent decline in the Government's leading index, which is designed to signal economic turning points six to nine months in advance, was not unexpected since most of the components had been published previously.
Yet analysts fretted that the index, now at 151.6, has shown no real strength since a burst in December and is at its lowest point so far in 1993.
Six of the 11 index components contributed to the May decline, the biggest factor by far being a drop in consumer expectations as surveyed by the University of Michigan.
 
 
Other Factors
 The other drags were lower factory backlogs of unfilled orders for durable goods, a decline in new factory orders for consumer goods, higher first-time claims for unemployment benefits, lower prices for materials especially sensitive to the business cycle and quicker deliveries by corporate suppliers.
A jump in the money supply, the first in eight months, was the main source of upward pressure on the index. The others were higher contracts and orders for plant and equipment, a rise in building permits and an uptick in stock prices. The length of the average workweek, the 11th component, was unchanged.
Just as worrisome to some analysts as the leading index, whose components move ahead of the economy as a whole, is the performance of its companion, the coincident index.
The coincident index, composed of indicators that tend to move at the same time as business activity, is only slightly higher, at 125.8, than it was in December -- despite a four-tenths of 1 percent May gain. And it stands less than two points above the level of March 1991, the month in which the latest recession officially ended.
In other words, the economy has been going almost nowhere for some time as gauged by the items making up the coincident index -- the size of nonfarm payrolls, personal incomes, industrial production and factory and trade sales.
Still another indicator, the lagging index of elements that tend to move after a time lag in the direction of the coincident index, edged up one-tenth of 1 percent last month.
 
 
'A Little Nervous'
 The dive in new-home sales last month, to an annual rate of 571,000, was roughly twice as large as anticipated following an April bulge that would have been almost impossible to sustain.
Michael S. Carliner, an economist for the National Association of Home Builders, said he was now "a little nervous" about the association's forecast of 680,000 sales this year and was also dismayed at how the inventory of unsold houses, now 278,000, had leaped to a 5.8-month supply, based on the latest selling rate, the highest in a year.
The poor May "bodes ill for the whole economy," Mr. Carliner added, since each home sold brings demand for big-ticket furnishings.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Showing indicators slip, home sales fall and confidence declines from June '92-May '93. (Sources: Commerce Department; Conference Board) (pg. D1); "Prices of New Homes" shows median price for new homes in thousands of dollars from Dec. 1991-May 1993. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D5)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis"shows components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from August to September. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD HERZOG HEINE GEDULD INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; HOUSING; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



835 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Voting Rights Case: A Divided Court Reflects Some Unresolved Racial Issues

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The Supreme Court's narrow ruling Monday that shaping legislative districts to elect more blacks may be unconstitutional showed how much the Justices reflect the deep uncertainties many Americans feel about racial preferences.
In the 5-to-4 ruling, the Justices demonstrated again that race remains the greatest unresolved issue at the hinge of law and social policy at the Court. The majority ruled that the creation of a North Carolina Congressional district with a bizarre shape just to insure the election of a black lawmaker could violate the rights of white voters. 
 In a sense, the North Carolina case is a replay in a different context of the affirmative action debate that has consumed the Court for nearly two decades and provoked heated debate at all levels of society.
The majority and minority opinions in the case, Shaw v. Reno, crisply detail the two sides of the argument. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's majority opinion asks, in essence, "Can't we ever get beyond race?"
The classic liberal answer that is reflected in the minority opinion is that race has to be part of the remedies used to get beyond race. Yet the majority of the current Court seems inclined to the view that such medicine only entrenches racial divisions and leaves the nation further polarized.
Justice O'Connor said creating legislative districts with people of the same race who are otherwise separated by geographical and political boundaries "bears an uncomfortable resemblance to political apartheid."
Such racial gerrymandering, she said, "reinforces the perception that members of the same racial group -- regardless of their age, education, economic status or the community in which they live -- think alike, share the same political interests and will prefer the same candidates at the polls." That, she said, amounted to impermissible racial stereotyping.
 
Lani Guinier's Views
 Even some liberal black scholars have begun to question the wisdom of districts created exclusively to elect minority members. The leading such scholar-critic is Lani Guinier, the University of Pennsylvania law professor who was President Clinton's initial choice to be the Justice Department's civil rights chief.
Professor Guinier has written that blacks elected from such single-member districts are often able to ignore their constituents because the state legislature has created a safe seat for them, and that they, in turn, are ignored by white lawmakers, she says. Mr. Clinton withdrew the Guinier nomination after she was sharply criticized for her prescriptions for how to deal with those problems.
Although many analysts considered the Court's decisions in the term just completed to be bland in comparison to those of recent years, the ruling in the North Carolina case showed that the Justices still have the potential to undo settled practices. Race-conscious remedies are a part of many aspects of modern life, and the Justices, at least a slim majority of the current Court, are deeply skeptical of the constitutionality of that approach.
Indeed, a majority of the Court is warier of race-conscious remedies than was the Justice Department under President George Bush, which defended North Carolina's new 12th Congressional District, a serpentine configuration that winds southwesterly for 160 miles through parts of 10 counties, connecting black population centers from Durham to Gastonia.
At issue in the redistricting case is how broad was the Court's message in 1989 when it struck down a Richmond plan to set aside 30 percent of public-construction contracts for minority-owned companies. The Court, by a 6-to-3 vote, said such racial preferences were unconstitutional because they violated the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection of the law.
 
Specific vs. Generalized
 Such set-aside programs can be permissible, the Court majority said in the Richmond case, only if there is distinct evidence that they are supposed to correct a specific past discrimination, not a generalized discrimination in the society.
The Court said in 1989 that the Richmond plan violated the rights of white contractors, just as it said this week that the North Carolina redistricting plan violated those of white voters.
In his dissent on Monday, Justice David H. Souter sought to distinguish the two situations. He said no individual is denied a vote because of the North Carolina plan, while in the other situations a white person might be out of a job.
The notion of racial preference in voting rights is a complicated matter. Packing black voters in a district to insure that they have a chance to elect a black lawmaker has been one of the main remedies used under the Voting Rights Act, enacted in 1965 to broaden black participation in elective politics.
There are also partisan considerations. Republicans have generally approved of such racial gerrymandering plans (although the Republican National Committee opposed the North Carolina plan), because they make it easier to make surrounding suburban districts more Republican.
William L. Taylor, a veteran civil rights lawyer and vice chairman of the Citizens Commission on Civil Rights, said, "Republicans like this approach because packing blacks in one district could result in assuring the election of Republicans in other districts, since they would have fewer minority voters who are presumed to be Democratic."
Whatever the merits of the arguments, it is indisputable that the Justices are closely divided on the question of racial preferences, an issue certain to recur.
And it will recur with a changed cast on the bench. Mr. Clinton this month made his first nomination to the Court, choosing Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to replace Justice Byron A. White, who is retiring. She will take her seat this fall if, as expected, she is confirmed. Mr. Clinton is also widely expected to have the opportunity to name at least one more Justice before his term expires.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; BLACKS (IN US); ELECTIONS; DISCRIMINATION; GERRYMANDERING; REAPPORTIONMENT RACE & RACISM (92%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, NEIL A BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



836 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
U.S. PUTS A-TESTS ON HOLD
President Clinton has decided that the U.S. will follow a "no first test" policy on nuclear arms. Planned tests in the Nevada desert will be put on hold indefinitely, so long as no other tests nuclear arms. A1
 
INVESTMENT SCAM IN CHINA
Thousands of Chinese investors have been swindled by a small-time businessman who raised $175 million and then squandered much of the money on luxuries for himself. A1 

REFUGEE INFLUX WORRYING CZECHS
The new, more restrictive German immigration law that takes effect tomorrow has heightened fears in the Czech Republic and in Poland, transit countries for most refugees into Germany, that they will become the dumping ground for those whom Germany rejects. A1
 
CHALLENGE TO NIGERIA RULERS
In an unusual challenge to Nigeria's military Government, at least 30 officers said they would retire from the armed forces in protest against the ruler's decision to annul the recent presidential elections. A2
 
U.N. KEEPS BAN ON BOSNIA ARMS
The U.S. and some unusual non-European allies failed to convince the Security Council to end the embargo on arms shipments to Bosnia. A6
 
BOSNIA SEEKS UNITY ON PLAN
Bosnia's collective presidency agreed to seek a united position on a Serbian-Croatian peace proposal that would partition the country along ethnic lines. But there was no sign of progress in healing the rift over the proposal, which has pitted the Muslims in Bosnia against the Serbs and Croats. A6
 
U.S. HITS IRAQ ARTILLERY SITE
A United States warplane fired a missile at an Iraqi antiaircraft artillery site as Iraq continued to interfere with American patrols and defy U.N. sanctions, Administration officials said. A3
 
U.S. AND ECONOMIC MEETING
With trade issues deadlocked and resistance building to the American aid strategy for Russia just days before the economic summit meeting in Tokyo, the Administration has turned its attention to the group's political declaration as a way of making the summit a success. A8
 
MORE WOES FOR JAPANESE PARTY
Just when Japan's governing party thought that its fortunes could not take another turn for the worse, the Mayor of one of northern Japan's largest cities was arrested today on bribery chargese. A9
 
Rights group faulted Israel on West Bank shootings. A3
 
U.N. talks on Haitian crisis are revived. A9
 
London Journal: The British season of self-mortification. A4
 
National A10-13, B7
 
NETWORKS TO WARN OF VIOLENCE
In the first step toward adopting a television rating system for violent shows, the nation's four broadcast networks have agreed to provide warnings to parents before shows laden with mayhem. A1
 
OFFSHOOT OF GAY-RIGHTS DEBATE
Anti-gay rights campaigns around the country, which would prevent states from granting homosexuals protection from discrimination, have produced an unintended result: homosexuals are "coming out." A10
 
THE 'OTHER' LONG ISLAND SECEDES
After 207 years of paying taxes to the City of Portland, Me., four and a half miles across Casco Bay, the Town of Long Island (population 200) will declare its independence. A10
 
STRETCH OF MISSISSIPPI CLOSED
From St. Louis to St. Paul, a 500-mile stretch of the Mississippi has been closed to nearly all commercial traffic because of some of the highest flood levels since 1965. A12
 
RULING MIRRORS RACIAL QUESTIONS
New analysis: The Supreme Court's ruling that shaping legislative districts to elect more blacks may be unconstitutional reflects the uncertainties many Americans feel about racial preferences. A12
 
RULING COULD IMPEDE NAVY
In a ruling that the Government says could disrupt operations of the Navy's nuclear-powered fleet, a Federal judge has barred a reservation in Idaho from accepting nuclear fuel for storage until an environmental study of the area is completed. A10
 
REPUBLICANS CRITICIZE LEADER
Anger among Republicans who believe their leader on the Senate Judiciary Commitee has been too easy on President Clinton burst into the open, as a nominee for a top Justice Department post was put on hold. A13
 
Senator Howard Metzenbaum said he would not seek re-election. A13
 
House and Senate negotiators failed to agree on military spending. A13
 
Education Page B8
 
Mexican children's U.S. education is endangered by a lawsuit.
 
The Sovern era ends at Columbia.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
EXTORTION IN HIRING CHARGED
Thirty-one people were indicted on charges that they ran eight groups that, under the guise of obtaining construction jobs for black and Hispanic workers, violently extorted thousands of dollars from New York building contractors. A1
 
STEIN WITHDRAWS FROM RACE
One month after he abandoned his sputtering mayoral campaign, New York City's Council President, Andrew J. Stein, abruptly withdrew as a candidate for re-election to the job that is being renamed Public Advocate and said he would never again seek elective office. A1
 
LOOKING FOR A YANKEES HOME
Concluding that a major threat exists in which the Yankees would abandon their home in the Bronx and perhaps New York, Governor Cuomo has begun a major push to direct the team toward a 30-acre railyard on the western edge of midtown Manhattan. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-10
 
Confessions of a passionate
picnicker. C1
At breakfast with Mabel Carney Stover. C1
If the soup is cold, speak up,
already! C1
 
Health Page C14
 
A gift of friendship: kidneys from unrelated living donors.
Personal Health: Who needs a hysterectomy and who doesn't.
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-22
 
International dancers. C15
Western museum in Beijing. C15
Film: "The Firm." C15
Music: Park concerts begin. C15
Books: On black Americans. C21
Book Notes C22
Television: "Schwarzkopf in Vietnam," on CBS. C22
 
Sports B10-15
 
Obituaries B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
A dinosaur ruling.
Still not good enough on Iraq.
Albany's last chance on ethics.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Living in it.
Bob Herbert: Send them back?
John Costello and Oleg Tsarev: The spy who knew too much.
 
 
Chronicle B4
 
Bridge C22
 
Crossword C22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); IRAQ (93%); NIGERIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CHINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); IRAQ (93%); NIGERIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CHINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); NEVADA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); ARMS EMBARGOES (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); LGBT RIGHTS (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (62%); IMMIGRATION LAW (55%); ARRESTS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



837 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Fearing Move by Yankees, Cuomo Explores Idea for a New Stadium

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

 BODY:
Concluding that the Yankees might actually abandon their home in the Bronx and perhaps New York, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has begun a major push to keep the team in the city and is looking especially at a 30-acre railyard on the western edge of midtown Manhattan as the possible site of a new stadium.
The Governor's concern was underscored by the fact that he arranged a meeting for Friday with George M. Steinbrenner 3d, the team owner, to discuss possible construction of a new Yankee Stadium at the site. 
 While threats of departure have been consistent in years past, this time there appears to be a special sense of urgency. For the first time since the late 1980's, the Yankees have a winning team, yet they have continued to see a decline in attendance and growing concern among fans over issues like safety, parking and location.
Included in the meeting, a person close to the Governor said yesterday, will be Rupert Murdoch, the media executive. The person, who insisted on anonymity, said Mr. Murdoch was invited to explore whether he might build an "entertainment center" -- television studios or an arena -- on the same site to give the vastly expensive project a financial anchor.
The yard, now a storage and maintenance depot for Long Island Rail Road trains, is between 30th and 33d Streets and 10th and 12th Avenues. The Governor said last week he had no good estimate on how much a new stadium would cost on the site, owned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. John M. Sullivan, an M.T.A. spokesman, said it would cost $200 million just to construct a concrete platform to build the stadium over the railyard.
The talks underscore the anxiety that strikes New York City fans and politicians every time Mr. Steinbrenner threatens to move the Yankees from the Bronx. Mr. Steinbrenner's lease at Yankee Stadium, built in 1923 and remodeled in 1974-75, does not run out until the year 2002, and any construction, if he decided to move, would not begin for some time. But he has been talking for years about moving and seems to be holding a better hand now than ever.
Mr. Steinbrenner considered moving the team before his suspension from baseball in 1990, and he took up the question again when he returned earlier this year, said David W. Sussman, the team's general counsel.
 
Concern Over Attendance
 All sides say there is more talk than action in this recent round of worry, sparked by Mr. Steinbrenner's complaints about the Yankees' attendance, which has averaged 22,000 fans at each home game, less than half the stadium's capacity and lower than the last-place Mets.
Mr. Steinbrenner has complained about parking, lighting around the stadium, security and the perception that the Bronx is not a safe or convenient place to watch baseball.
Little could be learned about the meeting planned for Friday, which the person close to the Governor said would be held in Manhattan at the office of Vincent Tese, director of the State Department of Economic Development.
Howard J. Rubenstein, the public-relations consultant, quoted Mr. Steinbrenner as saying, "I have absolutely no comment."
Of Mr. Murdoch, now the publisher of The New York Post, Mr. Rubenstein said, "He was invited to the meeting on Friday morning by the Governor, and when the Governor invites him, he attends."
In recent weeks, Mr. Steinbrenner has been approached with various sites -- at least three on Staten Island, two others in the Bronx, some in Brooklyn and Queens and in Yonkers and at the New Jersey Meadowlands. Mr. Tese had suggested the Manhattan site a couple of weeks ago, and Mr. Steinbrenner was reported to have expressed an interest.
Mr. Cuomo could not be reached yesterday to discuss the meeting. But he has spoken enthusiastically about a stadium at the rail site, though he says his first priority is keeping the Yankees in their Bronx home.
"I am very interested in that site because the Convention Center is there, the water is there," Mr. Cuomo said in an interview on Saturday.
Mr. Sullivan, the M.T.A. spokesman, said that the agency had studied development of the site and that the cost of the platform and the lack of a nearby subway were major drawbacks to building a sports arena there. At one point in the mid-1980's, the owners of Madison Square Garden explored building a new arena there but decided against it.
The issue of the Yankees' leaving the Bronx has been delicate for Mr. Cuomo and Mayor David N. Dinkins. The Mayor is currently negotiating with Mr. Steinbrenner over short-term improvements intended to increase attendance with a winning season so far. Yesterday, city and borough workers began a cleanup of the stadium area in the Bronx.
Long-term concessions to keep the Yankees in the Bronx were spelled out earlier this month as part of the Bronx Center plan, calling for a 3,000-car garage, a Metro-North station, a baseball museum and possible ferry service from Manhattan to the stadium .
Yesterday, at a news conference announcing license plates with the names of nine local sports teams, Mr. Cuomo reaffirmed his commitment to keeping the Yankees in the Bronx.
But he repeated his concern that the effort might not be enough. "Mayor Dinkins and I will work hard to make the location better, with more parking spaces, more cleanup, more police patrols," he said. "Does that get attendance at games up? If not, you look at other sites in New York."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 30-acre railyard on the west side of midtown Manhattan has won support as a possible site for a new Yankee Stadium. The yard, currently used as a storage and maintenance depot for Long Island Rail Road trains, is between 30th and 33d Streets, right, and 12th and 10th Avenues, foreground. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. B4)
 
Map shows possible site for Yankee Stadium. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC); STADIUMS; RAILROADS; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); CITY LIFE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); STEINBRENNER, GEORGE; FISHER, IAN KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



838 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Murdoch Gets Waiver From the F.C.C. to Buy The New York Post

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission voted, 2 to 1, today to give Rupert Murdoch the permanent waiver he needs to acquire The New York Post, a day before his management agreement with a bankruptcy court to operate the newspaper was scheduled to expire.
The vote, which came after weeks of wrangling within the F.C.C., sets the stage for Mr. Murdoch to re-acquire the tabloid that he was forced to sell five years ago in order to satisfy Federal regulations that bar a company from owning a newspaper and a television station in the same market. 
 Mr. Murdoch, who owns the New York television station WNYW (Channel 5), has been operating The Post since late March under a temporary waiver.
The decision represents the first time any company has received a permanent waiver to the ban on cross-ownership, and it comes just one day after lawyers for the publisher made it clear that Mr. Murdoch would shut the paper down if his request was not granted quickly.
An aide to the one commissioner who voted against the waiver said last week that the commissioner, Andrew C. Barrett, was worried about the precedent that such a waiver might set, and whether the ruling would encourage other television stations and newspapers to consider mergers.
Other commission officials have said that Mr. Murdoch's waiver would be drafted as narrowly as possible to prevent other efforts to follow suit. At the moment, no other waiver requests are believed to be pending before the commission.
The victory does not yet insure that Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation will actually acquire The Post. The company must still reach an accord with the newspaper's unions, and there are a number of disagreements that could still derail the takeover.
Nevertheless, Mr. Murdoch expressed jubilation at the decision. "I'm delighted the F.C.C. has seen fit to grant the waiver," he said in a prepared statement. "We now have to proceed to conclude agreements with the unions to make the purchase of The Post economically feasible for the News Corporation. If we achieve that, we will make an offer to acquire the assets of The Post."
James H. Quello, the acting chairman of the commission, said tonight that the need to preserve jobs and a major newspaper was more important than absolute regulatory consistency.
"The overwhelming body of responsible public opinion is in favor of the waiver," said Mr. Quello, a Democrat and a former broadcaster from Detroit. "My main thrust on this issue is to save 700 to 800 jobs."
The F.C.C.'s three voting commissioners have been sorely divided on Mr. Murdoch's waiver request for the last several weeks. The principal opposition to Mr. Murdoch came from Hispanic broadcasters and other minority groups, who argued that allowing the publisher to control two major media outlets in New York City would stifle the diversity of voices.
In voting against the waiver, Mr. Barrett, a Republican, argued that granting Mr. Murdoch a permanent waiver before the bankruptcy proceeding was complete would be premature.
"Without resolving at a full hearing many of the questions raised by this record, I believe the grant of a permanent waiver is defective as a matter of process, policy and law," he said in a prepared statement.
In announcing its decision, the commission offered few details about how the waiver would be crafted or whether it would be tailored narrowly to preclude a flood of waiver applications from other media companies.
But the commission said that "an exhaustive review of the record" had persuaded it that a waiver would not harm diversity in media and would "merely permit the bankruptcy court to have before it a full complement of purchasers, including Murdoch."
 
A Suitor Bows Out
 The action came against the backdrop of two related developments. The one other aspiring purchaser of The Post, a Connecticut businessman named Mahmoud Wahba, notified The Post creditor's committee that he no longer wanted to make an offer because he had become convinced that his ideas for reviving the paper would not work.
Separately, the Allied Printing Trades Council, an umbrella group that represents unions at The Post, sent a last-minute plea to the F.C.C. in favor of a waiver. "Based on our knowledge of conditions in our industry, we are convinced that The New York Post will be shut down unless Rupert Murdoch is allowed to buy the newspaper," wrote the council's president, George E. McDonald.
Despite that note of harmony, the publisher faces a potentially bruising showdown with unions. Mr. Murdoch and labor leaders have been negotiating for weeks, but the talks never became serious as long as it remained unclear whether the F.C.C. would allow a deal to go through.
By all accounts, however, today's decision makes it more than likely that Mr. Murdoch will re-acquire control of the newspaper, which he sold against his wishes in 1988.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (85%); NWS (ASX) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC); WNYW-TV (NEW YORK); NEW YORK POST NEWS CORP (85%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC); WNYW-TV (NEW YORK); NEW YORK POST FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; STATIONS AND NETWORKS; TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LAWYERS (74%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; MURDOCH, RUPERT KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



839 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Suspect Described as a Loner Who Never Left Home

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, L.I., June 29

 BODY:
Removed from his world, his head pounding and his glasses taken from him, Joel Rifkin watched the preparations for his arraignment as 17 armed guards filled the courtroom where he was charged with second-degree murder today.
Agape, he said nothing, avoiding the eyes of his 71-year-old mother, Jeanne, and his 31-year-old sister, Jan, whom he had phoned from jail the night before. Since he last saw them, Mr. Rifkin has gone from a nondescript unemployed landscaper who had once tended the William J. Casey estate to a suspected serial killer who, the police said, has confessed to killing 17 prostitutes. 
 In the white hooded jumpsuit the police had given him, his wrists manacled behind his back, Mr. Rifkin looked almost a spaceman. The bright lights of television crews had transformed his home, too, into an otherworldly scene.
"He's upset," said Robert Sale, Mr. Rifkin's lawyer, who met him for the first time today. Mr. Sale suggested that he might defend Mr. Rifkin on the ground of mental instability, though he would not say whether Mr. Rifkin had any psychiatric record.
 
'No Inkling of This'
 "He gave some appropriate responses, and some inappropriate responses to me," the lawyer said. "The family is very much concerned about his condition. He did ask that he be given his glasses back, and he was suffering from a migraine headache."
Neighbors described Mrs. Rifkin, a diminutive woman who walked silently through a barrage of questions as she left the courtroom, as "crestfallen," and in shock. "The family is destroyed by situations like this," said Mr. Sale, who first notified Mrs. Rifkin of the charges in a phone call on Monday.
"You only have to go in there and take one look at her to know she had no inkling of this," said Joy Reiter, who has lived next to the Rifkins for more than 30 years.
She described the Rifkins as gentle people, who once forbade their children toy guns. Joel Rifkin worked in the garden with his mother, who would offer neighbors extra flowers, lettuce and tomatoes. His father, Bernard, was on the local school board and was a trustee of the library, where a room is named for him.
"These were doers, they didn't do things to get in the spotlight," Mrs. Reiter said. "If it can happen to these people, it can happen to anyone."
Mr. Rifkin was the boy next door who grew up but never left home, a loner, neighbors said, who retreated into the worlds of gardens and automobiles as his classmates moved on to jobs, marriages and families of their own.
Neighbors and associates knew little about the man they most often saw as a pair of feet poking out from under the pickup trucks he was constantly working on.
 
No Talk of Women
 "He didn't seem to be an angry person," said Michael Brown, a neighbor who had worked with Mr. Rifkin for Olympus Cameras at the company's Woodbury warehouse. "He'd talk to people, but he acted like he didn't want people to know anything personal about him. His guard was always up."
Mr. Brown, 35, who also never married, said Mr. Rifkin was a loner like him, the kind of man women never call back.
"He was not the most attractive person, not really well-groomed," said Mr. Brown, who said he often gave Mr. Rifkin a ride to work. During their rides, he said, the two never talked about women or dating. He described Mr. Rifkin as "the kind of person that, maybe, if he went out with someone would get rejected."
Another colleague, who worked with Mr. Rifkin at the Planting Fields Arboretum in Upper Brookville, described him as meek. The colleague, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Rifkin had once worked on the Oyster Bay estate of the late Mr. Casey, the former C.I.A. director. There was no answer at the Casey estate.
Mr. Rifkin had found temporary work through Dunhill Temps, a Massapequa employment agency. In a statement yesterday, the company said that Mr. Rifkin had worked in a variety of jobs from September 1992 to April. The firm said it "conducted standard reference checks, which provided no negative information."
Mr. Rifkin had also attended classes in ornamental horticulture at the State University of New York at Farmingdale from the fall of 1987 through the spring of 1989, though he did not get a degree. Stephen Bernheim, a spokesman for the university, said Mr. Rifkin took a full course load, but either failed or dropped out in what should have been his final semester of the two-year program. He returned as a non-matriculated student in the spring of 1992, Mr. Bernheim said, but either failed or dropped out again.
 
Stench From Garage
 On the quiet suburban street where Mr. Rifkin lived, a sense of the surreal hung as heavy as the stench that emerged when the police swung open the family garage. Officers removed a chain saw and a red wheelbarrow, from which investigators, looking askance, took samples of an unknown substance in containers for evidence. They took Mr. Rifkin's pickup truck, which had been propped on cement blocks in front of the house, and his sister's blue four-door compact.
Later today, the police left, their ribbons of yellow tape strewn about the street.
And neighbors pondered whether a man had to be either/or. Could the Joel Rifkin who eulogized his father so movingly be the one who strangled prostitutes? Could the man who gave them begonias be a modern-day Jack the Ripper?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel D. Rifkin in custody after being arrested on Monday. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST MEADOW (NY); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS; PROSTITUTION MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); HOMICIDE (77%); FAMILY (77%); CHILDREN (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (72%); PROSTITUTION (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; RIFKIN, JOEL

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



840 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
On This Tour, Streets Are Paved With Stars

BYLINE: By Michael T. Kaufman

 BODY:
Dear Diary,
 SAW van with sign saying, "Stardom Tours, See Hollywood in Manhattan." Wondered, what does that mean? Thought, why not? Called to book a seat.
Welcomed aboard by Michael Dzakulin, the 44-year-old driver and guide, originally from Belgrade. Fellow sightseers were a woman from Sydney and a German surgeon traveling with his 18-year old son. 
 "This is the Waldorf Astoria, the most famous hotel in the world," said Mr. Dzakulin, starting out. "FRANK SINATRA has an apartment in the Waldorf Towers and so does JEAN MACARTHUR, the widow of General DOUGLAS MACARTHUR. There is a piano in one of the Waldorf restaurants that belonged to COLE PORTER, who lived in a 12-room apartment with his rich wife."
This was a warmup, like a tenor doing scales in his dressing room. By the time the van approached Beekman Place, Mr. Dzakulin was in full voice, not so much name-dropping as name-hurling and name-gushing.
"The Caswell-Massey pharmacy we just passed, their sixth customer was GEORGE WASHINGTON," he said. "Up ahead is DAG HAMMARSKJOLD Plaza, where IMELDA MARCOS stayed while she was on trial here. She had a six-room apartment given to her by her friend DORIS DUKE. ROBERT KENNEDY and TRUMAN CAPOTE lived in that building.
"The reason there are so many celebrities in New York is because the city is the cultural, economic, social, philosophical and artistic capital of the world." Wondered what he meant by philosophical capital. Didn't ask.
"RICHARD WIDMARK lived over there and IRVING BERLIN died in that house," he continued. "That one is still owned by the family of the SHAH OF IRAN. This one belonged to BILLY ROSE. It has 23 gold leaf designs on one ceiling and a swimming pool. PEGGY GUGGENHEIM and MAX ERNST lived across the street. And over there on the other side of First Avenue is a shelter for homeless women."
Turning back again toward the East River, Mr. Dzakulin called attention to a new skyscraper. "The penthouse there is being offered for $6 1/2 million," he said and then continued, "HENRY KISSINGER lives at the end of this street. Sometimes you can see him walking his black dog. GRETA GARBO lived on the other corner. Her neighbor, REX HARRISON, died two years after she did. Over there is where SHIRLEY MACLAINE has lived for the last 12,000 years."
Unfazed by the horns of drivers urging him to speed up, Mr. Dazkulin headed uptown at a steady pace of about 200 names per mile, or 10 per block. "There's where GEORGIA O'KEEFFE lived. There's where PELE stayed when he played for the Cosmos. Here we have P. J. CLARKE'S, where 'Lost Weekend' was shot."
He headed toward Columbus Circle, noting that West Side celebrities were "more bohemian" than their East Side counterparts. As evidence he offered the Y.M.C.A., where JAMES DEAN stayed when he first came to New York, and MADONNA'S apartment a block away on Central Park West. "It's those windows on the fifth floor with the white curtains," he said. Moving uptown along the park, Mr. Dzakulin authoritatively pointed out where the following people were living, or in the case of those who were dead, had lived:
EDNA FERBER, MARSHA MASON, EZIO PINZA, RUDOLPH VALENTINO, JOHN LINDSAY, STING, PAUL SIMON, SHELLEY WINTERS, SIGOURNEY WEAVER, MIA FARROW, STEVE MARTIN, BRUCE WILLIS and DEMI MOORE, whose apartment, Mr. Dzakulin said cost $8 million; MICHAEL DOUGLAS, TONY RANDALL, BEVERLY SILLS, PETER JENNINGS, MIKE NICHOLS and MICHAEL J. FOX.
He also explained that the Tavern on the Green was illuminated with 365,000 little lights and that the Cafe des Artistes was where "My Dinner with ANDRE" was filmed. He stopped at the building from which NICK NOLTE threatened to drop the STRADIVARIUS belonging to BARBRA STREISAND'S dopey husband in "Prince of Tides."
Then it was across the park and back downtown to show off the addresses of East Side names. ALISTAIR COOKE, PAUL NEWMAN and JOANNE WOODWARD. Were they really less Bohemian? RALPH LAUREN, JACKIE KENNEDY, TOM WOLFE, REGIS PHILBIN, TOM BROKAW, BARBARA WALTERS, WOODY ALLEN, BILL COSBY. Just when it began to appear that Mr. Dzakulin was mercifully not going to mention ANDY WARHOL'S quote about 15 minutes of fame, he did. Then he identified P.S. 6 as the school in "Kramer vs. Kramer" and the town house on East 77th Street as the one where ROBERT REDFORD found six murdered agents in "Three Days of the Condor."
Other sites pinpointed included the building whose board rejected RICHARD M. NIXON and the Park Avenue building featured in "Bonfire of the Vanities" under the nom de guerre of No. 816. In real life WILLIAM F. BUCKLEY is one of its tenants.
Wondered how Mr. Dzakulin knew all this. He said he had fallen in love with city while working as flight attendant for Jugoslav Airlines. He knew movies, loved celebrities. Began building data base of addresses while supervising deliveries for Madison Avenue shop. Learned more from chauffeurs and repair men. Came up with idea for two-and-half-hour $20 tour. Smart guy, MICHAEL DZAKULIN.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: P J CLARKE'S (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (72%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL CELEBRITIES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (74%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); DOGS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (50%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T; DZAKULIN, MICHAEL FRANCIS ALBERT 'FRANK' SINATRA (57%); IMELDA ROMUALDEZ MARCOS (55%); ROBERT D KENNEDY (54%); TRUMAN CAPOTE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



841 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Japanese Give Boeing $820 Million Order

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: SEATTLE, June 29

 BODY:
The Boeing Company said today that it had received an order from the Japan Air System Company for seven 777 wide-body airliners, valued at $820 million including spare parts and support.
Deliveries are to begin in the third quarter of 1996. Boeing said the Japanese carrier had not yet chosen an engine for the 300-seat planes. 
 The list price of the twin-engine airliner ranges from $115 million to $143 million, including engines. The General Electric Company, the Pratt & Whitney unit of the United Technologies Corporation and Rolls- Royce P.L.C. all make the huge turbofan engines designed to power the 777.
Japan Air System plans to operate the aircraft on its domestic Tokyo-Sapporo and Tokyo-Fukuoka routes, the two most densely traveled air routes in the world. In an all-economy class configuration, the airline would be able to fly more than 440 passengers. Overseas, Japan Air System flies to Honolulu, Singapore and Seoul, South Korea.
Boeing's stock lost 12.5 cents today, closing at $37.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Boeing has received 130 orders to date for the 777, which is scheduled to make its first flight next June, the company said. Fifty-seven of the orders have come from airlines in Asia, including Thai Airways International, Cathay Pacific, China Southern and Japan Airlines.
Japanese companies are building about 20 percent of the 777, making fuselage panels and parts of the wings. Among them are: Fuji Heavy Industries, Kawasaki Heavy Industries and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japan Air System has placed an $820 million order for seven Boeing 777 airliners to be delivered beginning in 1996. An artist's rendition shows the 300-seat aircraft with the carrier's markings. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%); UTX (NYSE) (83%); RRS (FRA) (71%); RR (LSE) (71%); 7011 (TSE) (54%); 7270 (TSE) (54%); THAI (SET) (54%); THAF (FRA) (54%); 7012 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (54%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (54%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (54%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); CHINA (78%); UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (78%); HAWAII, USA (77%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (77%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (53%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; JAPAN AIR SYSTEM CO BOEING CO (98%); JAPAN AIR SYSTEM CO LTD (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (83%); ROLLS-ROYCE HOLDINGS PLC (71%); PRATT & WHITNEY (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (54%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (54%); THAI AIRWAYS INTERNATIONAL PCL (54%); KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES USA INC (54%); KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; JAPAN AIR SYSTEM CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); CHINA (78%); UNITED STATES (77%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (78%); HAWAII, USA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (77%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (53%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOEING 777 AIRPLANE AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



842 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
New York City Awaiting Ratings

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
After hammering out a budget agreement for the coming year earlier this month, New York City officials are waiting to see if their bonds will be downgraded by the Standard & Poor's Corporation, a bond rating service.
An official at Moody's Investors Service, the other major rating company for municipal issues, said yesterday that its medium-grade rating on city bonds -- Baa-1 -- would be held unchanged. But Michael J. Dorfsman, a spokesman for Standard & Poor's, said, "We are still meeting with city officials and reviewing the rating." 
 Regardless of the outcome of the talks with S.& P., the city and major securities dealers are planning a large sale of city bonds for the week of July 19. The offering will enable the city to take advantage of interest rates that are the lowest for municipal bonds since the late 1970's -- and in New York City's case, the lowest since before the financial crisis of the mid-1970's.
S.& P. has rated city bonds A- since late 1987. But since 1989 it has added a warning that the trend on the city's bonds was negative because the local economy was weak and the city had a tendency to allow its spending to grow more rapidly than revenues.
Although the city has managed to balance its budget every year since the warning was issued -- indeed every year since 1980 -- analysts at S.& P. said they were worried about the lack of restraint on spending. Richard Larkin, managing director at the rating agency, said earlier this month that the new $31.2 billion budget, which calls for $1.8 billion of additional spending from a year earlier, "is not affordable on an ongoing basis."
Michael Johnston, a vice president at Moody's, said its rating would be held unchanged at Baa-1 because the city's budget problems today are not much different than two years ago, when Moody's reduced the city's bond rating from A. The long-term problem of spending plans that are high relative to revenues is one "which the city has not made much progress in resolving, but which is no worse than a few years ago," he said.
In the last few months traders said prices of city bonds had increased in line with other bonds, indicating that the furor over the budget was not taken seriously enough by investors to cause them to avoid the city's bonds. The city is one of the few issuers in New York whose bonds that are due in 20 years and more are trading with yields at 6 percent or higher. As a result, the traders said, demand has been good from investors who are dismayed by lower yields on other bonds.
Even if the S.& P. rating should drop, several bond market analysts said it should not be mistaken for a sea change in the financial condition of the city or the safety of its bonds. At most, the lower rating could require the city to increase the interest rate on new bonds by a few hundredths of a percentage point and might prevent buying by mutual funds and bank trust departments that limit their purchases to bonds that have an A rating or better from at least one major rating agency.
"I am absolutely comfortable that they will pay their bonds," said Brian S. Moore, a vice president at Ambac, a bond insurance company, which guarantees about $280 million of the city's debt. Despite criticism of the new budget, he said, there is no more possibility of default now than existed five years ago. That conclusion would not change, Mr. Moore continued, if a rating agency lowered its rating.
William W. Fish, head of the municipal bond research department at the Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation, noted that "criticism of the budget is more abundant in an election year." While many critics have focused on such revenues as borrowings secured by collections of delinquent real estate taxes and Federal and state revenues that might not be forthcoming, Mr. Fish said the city could point to positive developments in its local economy "which appears to have bottomed out."
Mr. Fish said reductions in ratings could be more likely after the year ends, when it would be more clear "whether revenues were falling short of optimistic assumptions and there was no compensating cutback in spending."
If S.& P. chooses not to retain its current rating, it is likely to reduce the rating a notch to BBB+, analysts said. The BBB+ rating at S.& P. is the equivalent of the Baa-1 at Moody's. Such a rating says in effect that bondholders could expect to be paid their interest and principal but that a downturn in the economy or other unexpected developments would pose more of a threat to those payments than for higher-rated bonds.
 
Treasury Market
 Prices of Treasury securities were little changed in slow trading. Although yesterday's announcements of declines in the index of leading indicators, consumer confidence and home sales were reminders that the economy was not strong, they did not attract many new buyers to note and bond issues, whose prices have increased sharply in recent weaks.
By late in the day the Treasury's 4 1/8 percent notes due in June 1995 were offered at 100 1/4, up 3/32 , to yield 3.99 percent, the 5 1/8 percent notes due in 1998 were 100 3/8, up 1/8 point, to yield 5.04 percent, and the 7 1/8 percent bonds due in 2023 were 10527/32 , down 1/32 , to yield 6.67 percent, unchanged from Monday.
 
Corporate Market
 Investor activity was greater in the corporate market, where yields are higher and new offerings totaled about $1.8 billion. Foreign issuers continue to multiply in the American market, and yesterday's offerings included $200 million of Bancomex seven-year notes yielding 7.56 percent through Merrill Lynch and $200 million of Pohang Iron and Steel Company's 10-year bonds at 6.74 percent through Salomon Brothers.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve"shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BUDGETS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL MICHAEL F JOHNSTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



843 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Retreat, With the Dow Falling 11.35

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks retreated yesterday, a day after the market made its best showing in weeks. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 3,518.85, down 11.35 points, giving back about a third of the gain posted on Monday.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was heavy at 276.3 million shares traded, up from 242.1 million on Monday, as losing issues held a slim margin over gainers, 979 to 970. 
 Other losing indexes included the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, which was down 1.17 points, to 450.68; the Big Board composite, down 0.46, to 249.06, and the Nasdaq composite, down 1.77 points, to 701.07. The American Stock Exchange composite, on the other hand, gained 0.66 point to finish at 433.52.
Analysts at MMS International, an economic analysis and research firm, believe the stock market is not in danger of slumping. "We are convinced that most of the bad news has already been priced in," they wrote. "And as such, favorable news will prompt considerable gains."
They think that the market has zeroed in on interest rates, with earnings and economic reports secondary. While low yields are potentially bad news for corporate earnings, they invariably make stocks more attractive than most other investments.
Dennis E. Jarrett, chief market strategist for Kidder, Peabody & Company, said stocks were all over the place yesterday -- starting out nicely, then slipping away later.
"Computer stocks were generally under pressure, but not technology as a whole," Mr., Jarrett said.
The Dell Computer Corporation's decision to cut prices in Japan has investors bracing for another round of price wars in the personal computer industry, traders said, that would lower profits. Dell fell 7/8, to 19; I.B.M. 1, to 49 3/8; Digital Equipment, own 1 3/8, to 41 3/8, and Apple Computer, 1 1/8, to 39. Amid the general decline among the computer makers Compaq Computer tumbled 4 1/8, to 49 3/4, after Oppenheimer initiated coverage of the company with a sell recommendation, a rating it also gave to Dell.
Among other equities, shares of the Argentine oil company YPF Sociedad opened trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday at 21 1/4, compared with the initial public offering price of 19 on Monday. Argentina raised $3.02 billion through the global sale of 160 million shares of YPF, with a total of 76.4 million American depository shares that were sold to United States investors. At the close of trading the stock was at 21 7/8, and 34.3 million shares had traded.
The ITT Corporation shares finished at 84 3/4, down 2, after the conglomerate signed a definitive agreement to acquire the Desert Inn Properties of Las Vegas, Nev., from Kirk Kerkorian's Tracinda Corporation for about $160 million. Paine Webber downgraded the stock to "neutral" from "attractive."

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (82%); ITT (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (60%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELL INC (82%); TRACINDA CORP (80%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (67%); ITT CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (71%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



844 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Driven Mostly Lower Amid Weak Economic Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell yesterday against most major currencies, amid news about weakness in the United States economy. However, the American currency rose against the yen.
Traders said the dollar was the victim of the economic news. The index of leading indicators, the Government's chief economic forecasting gauge, fell three-tenths of 1 percent in May, signaling continued but uneven growth ahead. 
 In a separate report, the Government said sales of new homes plunged 21 percent in May, the biggest drop in 13 years. The plummet virtually erased April's 21.9 percent jump and was double the decline that economists expected.
Other negative news included a Conference Board report showing that consumers' confidence in the economy fell in June for the second consecutive month, reflecting doubts about the economy.
Traders said they wanted to see Friday's unemployment figures to determine how bad the United States economy might be.
The German mark remained low against most currencies because of Germany's continued economic weakness. This was affirmed by the remarks of Lothar Muller, president of a regional German bank, who said, "Germany has to get its house in order," according to John McCarthy, chief dealer at ABN-Amro Bank N.V.
In New York, the dollar traded late at 106.50 yen, up from 106.25 on Monday. Overnight in Tokyo, the dollar closed at 106.85 yen, up 0.85 yen from Monday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted higher at 107.05 yen.
In New York, the British pound was worth $1.5118, more than the $1.4965 it fetched late Monday. In London, the British pound was quoted at $1.5035, up from $1.4935 late Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates, were: 1.6893 marks, down from 1.6955; 1.4990 Swiss francs, down from 1.5050; 5.6910 French francs, down from 5.7145; 1,536.00 Italian lire, down from 1,548.00, and $1.2821 (Canadian), up from $1.2820 (Canadian).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); ABO (ASX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); 

PERSON: IAN J MCCARTHY (55%); IAN J MCCARTHY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



845 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Philip Morris to Invest in Russian Factory

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
In Russia, where nearly a third of the 150 million people smoke, a pack of Marlboro cigarettes means more than prestige. It also means power. An outstretched hand with Marlboros has far more success in flagging taxis than an empty hand. In the dead of a Moscow winter, that's power.
To enhance its ability to get Marlboros into Russians' hands, the Philip Morris Companies has agreed to acquire a 49 percent stake in the Krasnodar Tobacco Factory and eventually to assume a majority interest, all for about $60 million. 
 The deal, announced yesterday, represents the third capital investment by Philip Morris in the former Soviet Republic, and is part of a strategy to increase the production of local brands as well as Philip Morris cigarettes. Last year, the company agreed to build a tobacco factory in St. Petersburg and enter a joint venture with a state tobacco company and an auto maker in the central Russian city of Samara.
In Krasnodar, a city of 627,000 people about 800 miles south of Moscow, the factory churns out more than five billion cigarettes a year.
Michael Parsons, a spokesman for Philip Morris International, said that with improvements, the plant was expected to double production within three years and perhaps reach an annual production level of 25 billion cigarettes soon after. The plant would produce the local brands and Philip Morris brands like Marlboro, Bond Street, Congress and Apollo-Soyez.
Mr. Parsons said the plant was in a prosperous part of the republic. "The local authorities are pro-foreign investment and the transition to a market economy is working well," he said.
In time, all three operations will use blends of tobacco exported from the United States to make the Philip Morris products and local leaves for the local brands.
It is almost a fail-safe plan in that Russia is the third-largest cigarette market in the world behind China and the United States, and American products like Marlboros are regarded as icons. As the best-selling brand in the world, Marlboro has been the most popular foreign cigarette brand in Russia for years.
While Marlboros will sell for more than the local brands, Philip Morris may be less worried about price than availability. Mr. Parsons said the idea was to expand the market, with Krasnodar and the two other facilities supplementing imported Philip Morris cigarettes.
"It's easier to sell more if we make them locally," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (94%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (94%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC; KRASNODAR TOBACCO FACTORY ALTRIA GROUP INC (94%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); PHILIP MORRIS PRODUCTS SA (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC; KRASNODAR TOBACCO FACTORY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING TOBACCO MFG (93%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); SMOKING (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



846 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: France Says A Trade Pact Is Not Likely

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, June 29

 BODY:
Prime Minister Edouard Balladur of France said today that any trade agreement at next week's summit meeting of industrial nations would be impossible as long as the United States maintained its determination to impose punitive duties on European steel.
His statement in a radio interview came as a senior French official who will be attending the summit sessions in Tokyo starting on July 7 ruled out any formal accord at the meeting on lowering tariff barriers under a so-called market access agreement. 
 Such an accord, which might open the way to a broader agreement in world trade talks, has been actively sought by American, Canadian, Japanese and European Community trade officials in a series of discussions scheduled to resume in Toronto on July 6.
 
July 6 Meeting Termed 'Stupid'
 "We think this July 6 meeting, a day before the summit, is rather stupid," the French official, who insisted on anonymity, said. "Whatever the result, there will not be time for European Community member states, including France, to approve the outcome. So there will be no accord on market access in Tokyo."
The market access talks, which floundered last week in Tokyo on the issue of American protection of its textile industry, are aimed at reducing a wide range of tariffs on goods and services to spur world trade and help stimulate the sagging world economy.
Short of a full General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade accord, which economists believe could add $200 billion a year to the world's $7.6 trillion in annual trade, participants at the summit meeting, including the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, have held out the hope that at least some headway on market access could be made.
The French rejection of any possible accord could amount to posturing ahead of tough negotiations. But the official, a seasoned participant in the summit talks, seemed resolute in saying there would be no agreement. This would mean that for the fourth time in succession a summit meeting of industrial nations will have failed to obtain progress on trade.
In a firmly worded statement, Arthur Dunkel, who is leaving as the head of GATT, said the major industrial countries had held up world economic development by squabbling over a GATT accord.
"In the past two or three years we have lost several opportunities to conclude the Uruguay Round," Mr. Dunkel said in a statement from Geneva, referring to the current round of talks, which began in Uruguay in 1986. His statement was issued before he hands over the reins to Peter Sutherland of Ireland on Thursday.
"The time has come," Mr. Dunkel added, "for governments to face realities and live up to their responsibilities. I believe the deal can, and should, be done before the end of the year."
Mr. Balladur combined his statement with a declaration that he would not be attending the summit meeting because the French position was firm and could be adequately defended by President Francois Mitterrand and Foreign Minister Alain Juppe.
 
Attacks Steel Plan
 Referring to the United States Department of Commerce's finding last week in favor of duties on flat-rolled steel from 20 countries including France, Mr. Balladur said the removal of the threat of these duties "is a precondition for a successful conclusion at the summit with respect to trade agreements."
The Commerce Department findings have been submitted to the United States International Trade Commission, which will determine within 45 days of June 21 whether the steel imports are causing injury to the United States steel industry.
An American official in Paris said there was no way that the Clinton Administration could respond to what amounted to an ultimatum from Mr. Balladur. "This is a legal proceeding and it is not something that the U.S. Administration can revoke," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Edouard Balladur (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); URUGUAY (92%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (76%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (76%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; UNITED STATES; EUROPE FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); URUGUAY (92%); JAPAN (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (76%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STEEL AND IRON; SUMMIT CONFERENCES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); TEXTILES (51%); 

PERSON: BALLADUR, EDOUARD (PRIME MIN); COHEN, ROGER EDOUARD BALLADUR (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



847 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Companies Rebuff Mighty U.S. Pension Funds

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 29

 BODY:
America's big pension funds, which have assumed enormous influence in America's corporate board rooms recently, decided to take on Japan's corporate samurai today and they were ignored.
The occasion was a uniquely Japanese corporate ritual -- 1,901 companies simultaneously held their annual meetings today. In public halls across the land, the winds of shareholder democracy blew, giving investors a chance, in theory, to question and vote on management policies in this period of recession, falling profits and huge losses. 
 The only problem was that since the meetings were held at close to the same time, even the fleetest shareholder could attend but one or two. And even those who managed to get past the phalanx of company officials guarding the meetings and got to raise questions received crisp replies. Where some American annual meetings can drone on for hours, on average, the meetings here lasted from 30 to 40 minutes.
Japanese companies say they follow this practice to protect themselves against sokaiya, a kind of gangster who specializes in extorting payments from companies by threatening to disrupt the annual meetings. In outsmarting the sokaiya, however, the companies also throttle legitimate questioning.
In addition, more than 70 percent of the shares of corporate Japan are owned by other Japanese companies in the form of cross-shareholdings, another means that the companies use to insulate themselves against outside pressure. The companies always support each others' management.
Undaunted, a number of major American pension funds have sought to use their growing shareholdings here to influence policies. A group of these institutions, ranging from the huge California Public Employees Retirement System and State Street Global Advisors to J. P. Morgan Investment Management, did what by Japanese standards is unthinkable -- they voted today against some important resolutions proposed by the boards of Japanese companies. None expected to overturn resolutions, only to send a message of dissent.
The pension funds voted not by attending the meetings, but by mailing their ballots. Nonetheless, a handful of the companies contacted insisted they had received no nay votes. In fact, there were no reports today of any of the more than 200 companies to which the pension funds sent nay ballots acknowledging them.
"That's strange," said Joe Lufkin, the managing director of the Global Proxy Services Corporation, a Boston-based group that handled the balloting on behalf of the pension funds. "I'm not sure what that means. I think we're going to send off some faxes."
Richard Koppes, the general counsel of the California retirement system, added: "That's very disturbing. Either the companies misinformed you or our votes did not make it through for some reason." Calpers, as the pension fund is known, has $75 billion in assets, and about $5 billion of that in Japanese stocks.
The pension funds basically cast their no ballots on two issues, dividends and expanding board membership. Traditionally, Japanese companies have paid a relatively paltry dividend, using profits not to benefit shareholders but to expand the companies. Even if the companies lose money, as some did in the recession of the last year, they tend to leave their dividends untouched.
Thus, the pension funds objected to Nissan Motors and Daiwa Securities paying unchanged dividends although they lost money, and they objected to what they believed was the overly modest dividend paid by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Aoyama Trading, for instance.
In addition, they voted against the proposal by Furukawa Electric to expand its board from 27 to 30 directors and against the re-election of the directors of Nomura Securities. Japanese companies have no outside directors on their boards and the unwieldy number of directors tends to insure that decisions will be made by top management alone, analysts say.
 
Aim of the Funds
 "We're not trying to change Japanese culture," Mr. Koppes said, adding that the point was to nudge the companies toward more responsible policies.
Aron Viner, executive vice president of Global Proxy Services, said his company had brought together some of the pension funds with Japanese executives so they could discuss these issues. He said that it would undoubtedly take a long time to have much impact, but that the companies were starting to realize that the American institutions represented such huge sums they could not be ignored for long, at least in theory.
"In the Japanese style, the response at those meetings is always the same: dead silence," Mr. Viner said. "But the nature of the silence has been changing. It's now an interested silence."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (82%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (82%); J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; PENSION FUNDS; CORPORATIONS PENSION FUNDS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXTORTION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); BALLOTS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BONDS (71%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



848 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: British Phone Offer Priced

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LONDON, June 29

 BODY:
The British Government published the prospectus today for the 5 billion ($7.46 billion) sale of its remaining 22 percent stake in the nation's biggest company, British Telecommunications P.L.C.
Kenneth Clarke, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, said British investors would pay 10 pence (15 cents) a share less for their stakes than the 160 pence price for foreign investors. Payment for the shares would be in three installments spread over 15 months. 
 The prospectus said the company, Britain's biggest in terms of market capitalization, is in good shape to take advantage of any economic upturn and has a strong financial and technical base. But it warned of uncertainties because of the economy, competition and the impact of regulation.
British Telecom has seen its market share in Britain drop to 87 percent in 1993 from 100 percent in 1984, when more than half its shares were first offered to the public. Mercury Communications, a unit of Cable and Wireless P.L.C., began competing in 1986 and a swarm of North American phone companies has entered the market in the last few years. The prospectus said that while the current impact of the new players was small, British Telecom expected that individual companies would continue to build market share rapidly.
British Telecom is planning a series of presentations in major cities in Britain, the United States and elsewhere in Europe to market the shares.
The company said its recent alliance with the MCI Communications Corporation would assist its ability to develop new technologies. Last month, British Telecom said it was acquiring a 20 percent stake in MCI, the second-largest long-distance company in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BT (NYSE) (96%); BT (LSE) (96%); VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (69%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (69%); NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (56%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BT GROUP PLC (96%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC (69%); DIVERSIFIED MERCURY COMMUNICATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



849 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Spending Will Get Us Out of This

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A Budget Too Much Like Perot's" (editorial, June 23), coming on the eve of the Senate vote on the Clinton Administration's proposed budget, is a salutary reminder, in the midst of our almost total preoccupation with reducing the Federal deficit, that the ultimate purpose of all these efforts is to increase the resources that we devote to investment, both private and governmental. Cutting the high rate of Federal Government borrowing is a necessary condition; but there is no basis for confidence that it would be sufficient. 
 There is another reason an exclusive emphasis on deficit reduction is counterproductive: the painfully slow rate of our economic recovery and the general, almost hysterical belief that because of the huge deficits we simply can't afford to apply the kind of fiscal stimulus that helped get us out of past recessions.
It is useful to remind ourselves that in the early 1980's, the last time around, we gave our economy an enormous fiscal shot in the arm with an $88 billion increase in the Federal deficit in 1983 over 1982, thanks primarily to the Reagan tax cuts and sharp boost in military spending.
An equivalent stimulus today would be about $170 billion -- 10 times what President Clinton proposed and the Senate filibustered to death.
What's especially disheartening is the dissipation of the optimistic belief of the 1960's that we had found the solution to our macroeconomic problems. We've never resolved the ugly dilemma of stagflation that emerged shortly thereafter: all that the 80's demonstrated was that it has a third horn -- accumulating international indebtedness. Excessive national spending needn't produce inflation or stagnation, so long as foreigners are willing to grubstake us; but just as with the ballooning Federal deficit, it leaves us wondering what to do for an encore.
The one remedy for both our immediate and our long-run problems on which we can all agree is increased spending on plant and equipment, infrastructure, people and technology.
You are surely right in reminding us that to concentrate exclusively on reducing the Federal deficit at the expense of investment (and that includes increased incentives for private investment) is to insure continuing stagnation.
 
ALFRED E. KAHN
Ithaca, N.Y., June 24, 1993
The writer retired as the Robert Julius Thorne Professor of Political Economy at Cornell University.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); WRITERS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: KAHN, ALFRED E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



850 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Only Insurers Lose In Health Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Unknown Devil," your June 22 economic analysis on health care, reports that delaying reform could prove so costly that "it would torpedo the Clinton Administration's hopes of making a difference in the lives of the less privileged." 
 You cite a Harvard economist who thinks hospital workers would suffer most of the job losses resulting from the cost-containment. But most hospitals are understaffed, despite stringent limitations on length of in-patient stays, as anyone who has had the misfortune to be hospitalized lately can attest. So it's doubtful that hospitals will be the focus of mass layoffs.
More likely to be dislocated, under a rational reform plan, would be employees of the private health insurance industry.
Replacing our 1,500 separate insurers with a single-payer agency (as in Medicare or Canada) could save most of the 24 percent of health dollars that they, and the administrative red tape they require, absorb.
According to a 1991 General Accounting Office analysis, this would save enough to pay for comprehensive services, including long-term care, for everybody and to cover the 37 million uninsured. What's more, the G.A.O. said, total health expenditures would not increase, so new taxes would not be needed if we switched to a single-payer system.
Let's hope the Administration does not miss this angle.
 
JOHN GLASEL
Tenafly, N.J., June 22, 1993
The writer retired as president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INSURANCE (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); MEDICARE (56%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); 

PERSON: GLASEL, JOHN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993



851 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: New Museum Is in Beijing, but Who Will See It?

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 29

 BODY:
For years, the last place to look for a modern display of Chinese art was in China. Now that may be changing with the opening of China's first Western-style museum here, more than a dozen years after its original sponsor first conceived of it.
 The Arthur M. Sackler Museum of Art and Archeology, which opened in Beijing on May 27, has joined a string of Sackler galleries and museums around the world. This one primarily displays relics and fossils discovered by Chinese archeologists. 
The opening was the culmination of years of trans-Pacific dreams and headaches. But running a museum in China entails special challenges, and the headaches could get worse.
 It is not even clear, for example, whether the museum will be opened to the public, except to specialists who make appointments or to those Chinese and foreigners pushy enough to talk their way past the guards. The museum is inside Beijing University, where guards stand at each gate to keep visitors out.
 
For Now, by Appointment Only
 "They have assured us they will let in outside visitors," said Jill Sackler, Mr. Sackler's widow, on a visit to Beijing for the opening ceremony.
 Still, for now, visits are by appointment.
 Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, a psychiatrist and medical publisher who donated millions of dollars to the arts before he died in 1987, gave $10 million to have the museum built in Beijing in partnership with a group of Chinese archeologists. But the Sackler team has just handed over control and responsibility to the Chinese partners and the authorities, who have no experience operating a modern museum.
 One major challenge is how the Chinese will pay maintenance costs, including an estimated $70,000 a year in electricity bills. The museum was designed with two separate lighting systems, so the Chinese can turn the lights up to make it look like any Western museum, or dim them to save money.
 The success of the museum will hinge on how well the Chinese manage it. One parallel, and it is not encouraging, is of Western-designed hotels that have been handed over to Chinese management. Inevitably, six months after they are turned over, cockroaches emerge, the plumbing leaks, the wallpaper and carpets accumulate a camouflage pattern of stains and the staff members replace their smiles with scowls.
 Indeed, the American architect I. M. Pei declined an offer to design the Sackler Museum in Beijing, apparently for just that reason. His previous effort in China, the Fragrant Hills Hotel in Beijing, is run by local managers and has quickly degenerated into a second-rate establishment.
 The bills are especially onerous for the Chinese partners, the archeology department of Beijing University. The university may be among the nation's leading institutions, and the department may be the best in the nation, but neither has much money to pay for the museum.
 So the department is seeking to raise money through a new museum shop and entrance tickets. But neither the shop nor the tickets are likely to raise much money if the public is not invited.
 While the department says it wants outsiders to visit, the university seems reluctant to ease its restrictions on visitors. In fact, university officials hesitated before allowing foreign reporters to attend the museum opening, and they escorted a restricted number of journalists in and out of the campus.
 "We are in the middle of negotiating a way to resolve this problem," said Li Boqian, the director of the new museum and the chairman of the university's archeology department. "We want this museum to be a window for cultural exchange between China and the rest of the world." Where to Display Artifacts?
 With 4,000 years of history, China may have more archeological artifacts -- above and below ground -- than any other place in the world. Today's economic boom is sending construction shovels into the ground at breakneck speed, so the number of accidental finds is growing every month. The problem is that there has been nowhere safe and attractive to show them off.
 In a typical local museum, most pieces sit in dirty showcases under a faint yellow lightbulb. But at the new Sackler Museum, 800-year-old porcelains, 2,200-year-old bronzes and 4,500-year-old ceramics are displayed in pristine cases, like pieces in Sackler galleries in the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, the Royal Academy of Art in London and at Harvard University.
 The new museum occupies a pavilion with a spacious courtyard recalling the imperial-style residences in the Summer Palace, where Chinese emperors would read poetry and listen to the lute. Inside, however, a visitor walks through wide, open corridors and rooms painted in subtle tones of beige and white that reflect light.
 The inaugural exhibitions featured a few remarkable relics, including the fractured skull and bones of a Golden Buffalo Mountain man the Chinese call Jinniushan man. The fossil, which Chinese scientists say is 280,000 years old, is early and different enough that it has led some experts to cast doubt on the theory that all people are descendants of a single African ancestor.
 After the exhibition ends, the fossils are to be returned to a secret vault, and copies will be displayed instead. Most Chinese museums, which have poor security, do this, and the archeology department will do the same with its prized possessions.
 Chinese archeologists say they hope the museum will inject new life into a field that is underfinanced and understaffed. These days, with money becoming the major focus of Chinese society, the life of a Chinese archeologist does not inspire envy, and its organizers say they hope that a modern museum will lure students who are genuinely interested in the field.
 From the start, Chinese authorities said they considered the museum a sensitive project. Initially, the Government was even hesitant to accept the museum as a gift from Mr. Sackler, partly because it was generally suspicious of Westerners. The project finally got under way in 1986, but ran into many snags and the opening was delayed several times. One mundane, time-consuming task, for example, was to properly clean and repair the collection's 10,000 objects, many of which had never been restored.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 30 about the new Arthur M. Sackler Museum of Art and Archeology in Beijing omitted the name of the architect. He is Lo-Yi Chan of Prentice & Chan, Ohlhausen in Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Beijing's new Arthur M. Sackler Museum of Art and Archeology were Li Boqian, left, the director, Heather Peters, center, and Jill Sackler, widow of the benefactor whose $10 million gift paid for the project. (David Feingold for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GIFTS; FINANCES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; SACKLER, ARTHUR M (DR); SACKLER, JILL

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993

 
