

201 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Union Heads Get Apology On Dinkins's Layoff Plan

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
A day after he announced he might have to lay off 15,000 New York City workers to close yawning budget gaps, Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday apologized to the union leaders who were among his strongest allies for failing to warn them that he intended to make the bad news public.
''The need to speak to the possibility of layoffs and to do it soon was required by the overall circumstances, and so I did,'' Mr. Dinkins said after a speech to the City Club of New York in Manhattan. ''The mistake we made, if any, in that regard, was a failure to advise'' union leaders, that we were doing so, ''so that they didn't get the information from the media.''
Mr. Dinkins announced he was considering the layoffs, recommended by his budget director, at a hastily called news conference on Thursday, after he had pleased unions in the preceding four days by agreeing to a 5.5 percent wage increase for teachers, called for the hiring of thousands of new police officers and proposed that special taxes be levied to pay for them. 
 
Teamsters Call Meeting
One of the union leaders, Barry L. Feinstein, president of the 12,000-member Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, has scheduled a meeting of several hundred shop stewards for this morning. His spokesman, Frank Mazza, said Mr. Feinstein would seek authorization to take further steps to gain a new contract, including calling a strike. But that does not mean a strike is imminent, Mr. Mazza said.
The Mayor said the teachers' agreement, the call for more police and the tax proposals were not inconsistent. He also said that the layoff warning was not meant as a tactic in union negotiations.
''These things are dynamic,'' he said. Events do not ''stand still and let you patiently, quietly go about your business. Some of the information on the revenue downturn is very recent, like yesterday.''
In response to questions from reporters, he insisted: ''The city is not falling apart. We are on the case.''
At the same time, other politicians and fiscal experts puzzled over the meaning and cumulative effect of Mr. Dinkins's actions over the week.
''It's stunning, because it looks as if everything is handled seriatim, and when you're dealing with fiscal matters, you just can't proceed that way,'' said Alair A. Townsend, a former city budget director and deputy mayor for finance who is now publisher of Crain's New York Business.
''I honestly don't think it's an overreaction,'' she said, but added, ''He doesn't look like he's out in front on this one but running to catch up.''
Mayoral aides said that Mr. Dinkins's actions were a result of a swift confluence of events that might have left anyone huffing and puffing.
''I think that we have put forward the strategy the Mayor has always said he had,'' said Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch. ''That is to be as fair to labor as he possibly can, to keep the fiscal house in order, and to have a very strong anti-crime program. We're trying to move those agendas forward.''
 
Setting His Own Deadline
Aides noted that the Mayor had been locked in to presenting his anti-crime plan by Oct. 1, since he had pointed to that date to mollify those who had clamored for him to act sooner. Then, last weekend, he faced the possibility of a teachers strike.
Unable to reach agreement with Mr. Feinstein's union as he had hoped, the mayoral aides said, Mr. Dinkins had little choice but to reach a contract agreement with teachers - whose raise he had wanted to make higher all along but not have it set a pattern -and then proceed with his police plan on Tuesday.
But on Wednesday, the budget director, Philip R. Michael, learned more bad news about revenue collections and changed his economic forecasts based on shifting national models. Mr. Michael began pressing for an immediate hiring freeze and a study of far more drastic cuts, including at least 15,000 layoffs, to help close an expected gap of at least $1.4 billion in the coming fiscal year.
The administration had been talking of a gap that size for weeks, and had even suggested layoffs might be a possibility. But it had never sought to hammer home to the public just how real a possibility such actions would be, especially since the current budget was balanced with more than $800 million in higher taxes and hundreds of millions of dollars in service cuts.
 
Keeping the Budget in Order
Mr. Michael said his recommendation was a way of giving life to the gloomy predictions he had been making for months.
Another senior aide said: ''We didn't want to hide the numbers. We wanted to say we were starting a drill to keep the budget in order, as much to give ourselves a little breathing room in the rush of events as to absorb new information.''
But Mr. Dinkins took the unusual step of simply making Mr. Michael's recommendations public, without endorsing them himself, on the same day that Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman warned of even bigger budget gaps and called for a ''summit'' of city officials and business and labor leaders to discuss the problem.
That left many wondering whether the Mayor was simply trying to ward off such a spectacle and waving a club over the heads of unions in a concession to fiscal monitors who had criticized him for the teachers' pact, which would be financed through a mix of previously budgeted money and other uncertain sources.
 
A Call, and Loud Words
Mr. Dinkins said that was not his style, and fiscal experts said the Mayor's estimates seemed realistic. But his handling of the situation rankled union leaders.
Mr. Feinstein and other leaders had reacted with fury to news of the layoff proposal, which many said they first heard of from reporters seeking their comments.
When the Mayor made his apologetic phone call to Mr. Feinstein's office, a Teamsters' aide who was in a hallway at union headquarters at the time said the response was loud, though the exact words were inaudible.
 
Unions in a Quandary
Now the unions find themselves grappling with the quandary of trying to match the teachers' raise while also avoiding layoffs. The greater the raises, the greater the risk of layoffs.
''It makes the bargaining positions of all the unions much weaker,'' said Raymond D. Horton, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a watchdog group financed by businesses.
Alan J. Proctor, executive director of the State Financial Control Board, which monitors the city's finances, would not say whether pressure had been put on the Dinkins administration since the teachers agreement and police hiring plan were announced. He said that the announcement of a job freeze and possible layoffs was ''terrific'' but that he was waiting to see the details.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LABOR UNIONS (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



202 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23, Column 5, Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: OBSERVER;
The Tiny Compromise

BYLINE: By Russell Baker

 BODY:
The peril is economic. Awareness of it is what's behind the whining about Japan's supremacy and what makes best sellers of pamphleteers' warnings that it's all up with the U.S.A. It fuels the incessant doomsday talk on radio call-in shows: American no longer No. 1. Could be No. 23 unless we wake up fast.
 What to do? The obvious anser: Get out of debt. You usually get out of debt5 by cutting costs, increasing income and using the savings and added revenue to pay the bill collector. Government, however, can't do it this way anymore. 
 Why? Because of the politicians' terror of raising the taxes needed to pay for all the things taxpayers demand. In the 1980's taxes became political death.
 The Republic, which was born crying "No taxation without representation," began demanding "Representation without taxation." Politicians who opposed the latest increase in benefits for Social Security recipients were doomed just as surely as politicians who proposed new taxes to pay for it.
 No surprisingly, politicians discovered the wisdom of giving the voters more while fighting all efforts to pay for the new boons with real money.
 Needing a philosophy to justify themselves, the politicians were blessed by the arrival of the Reagan economists bearing a theory worthy of the Wizard of Oz. The way to fill the Treasury to overflowing, they said, was not by raising taxes, but - get this, folks! - by cutting taxes.
 This would free so much money for the private market that business would boom and tax collections rise despite lowered rates. Here was a politician's dream of Paradise. Despite the much-ballyhooed impending calamity, politicians still cannot give it up.
 Nor can you blame them. Though many may now privately concede that the theory didn't work, the public still seems to detest returning to the old idea that when governments distribute boons somebody has to pay.
 Chief among those determined to keep shunning reality has been President Bush. In 1980 before becoming Mr. Reagan's Vice President, he described the Reagan argument that tax cuts would enrich the nation as "Voodoo economics."
 Eight years later, though, Americans were so wedded to the get-rich-by-cutting-taxes theory that he offered them his "Read my lips" pledge of "no new taxes" as assurance that he would never abandon the tried and beloved old policy simply because it had failed.
 Earlier this year, finally confronting the potential calamity, he agreed to consider tax increases. The deal reached last weekend - the tiny compromise, if you like - was the result. It was denounced by some Democrats as a soak-the-poor budget, but this overstates the case.
 Weighed against the potential national calamity - loss of Number Oneness, for Heaven's sake! - the taxes involved were too slight to constitute even a good soaking. it was only a dunking. Sure, the poorer classes would continue to bear the heaviest tax burden, as in the Reagan years, but it was more accurate to call it a dunk-the-poor budget.
 You might have expected conservative Republicans to congratulate the President for his cunning in persuading the Democrats to join him in this assuault on their natural consitutency. But no.
 The ineffable Newt Gingrich, House Republican whip and the very embodiement of "Representation With No Taxation Whatsoever," promptly said he and all who still cherished the old Reagan way thought the President had gone too far. And so they voted against him.
 Perhaps the conservative defection will have long-term benefit for the country. Suppose it persuades Mr. Bush that nothing he does will ever win him conservative support. Gosh, it might persuade him to give the country a break by dropping the conservative Dan Quayle from the ticket in 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX INCREASES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 



203 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: RECORDINGS;
Historic Bookends to Texas Blues

BYLINE: By ROBERT PALMER: Robert Palmer, former chief rock critic for The New York Times, is writing a book on the roots of rock-and-roll.

 BODY:
It is tempting to think of Mosaic's new boxed set, ''The Complete Recordings of T-Bone Walker 1940-1954,'' and the Vaughan brothers' ''Family Style,'' just released on Epic, as historic bookends to the modern Texas blues tradition.
There was blues in Texas long before T-Bone Walker's first recorded electric guitar solo in 1940, and blues will undoubtedly live on there. Indeed, since the idiom's ultimate source has never been pinpointed, some authorities have taken literally the old blues line ''The blues came from Texas, loping like a mule,'' and asserted that blues must have originated there.
But the image of Texas blues as a distinctive regional form has long centered on the hornlike, single-string lead-guitar style pioneered by T-Bone Walker. And before his death in a helicopter crash in August, Stevie Ray Vaughan - who shares billing on ''Family Style'' with his older brother, the guitarist Jimmie Vaughan - had made Texas-rooted, virtuoso blues guitar-playing, revved and leavened with rock, an important part of the commercial pop-music scene for the first time since the heyday of white blues in the late 60's. A further connection links Walker and the Vaughan brothers: the three guitarists grew up in the same Dallas neighborhood, Oak Cliff.
Mosaic - long known for its high-quality, limited-edition boxed sets of hard-to-find jazz recordings - is making its first foray into blues with the T-Bone Walker set (MR9-130 for LP's, MD6-130 for CD's; available from Mosaic Records, 35 Melrose Place, Stamford, Conn. 06902). But it isn't a very big jump, given the jazz milieu Walker worked in during much of the 30's and 40's.
As a child, Walker often led Blind Lemon Jefferson, the first Texas blues recordings star, from bar to bar in Dallas, watching while he played and absorbing his style. In fact, a young Walker made his recording debut in 1929 as Oak Cliff T-Bone, which is not included in the Mosaic box. But on that record he was featured mainly as a vocalist, as he was when he recorded again, in 1940, as a member of the Les Hite Band in Los Angeles, where the Mosaic set begins.
In the meantime, Walker had become friendly with the then-unknown guitarist Charlie Christian, who later set the jazz world on its ear and became the first electric guitarist in modern jazz. One can only imagine what Walker and Christian sounded like playing together on Dallas street corners in the 30's. But while Walker's dry-toned, spidery guitar lines owe much to the style of Blind Lemon Jefferson, his friendship with Christian, and the years he spent playing in jazz and dance bands before becoming a solo star, also had an impact.
Walker often introduced his slow blues with jazzy chord voicings, and the occasional pop ballad performances on the Mosaic collection demonstrate that he was a well-rounded musician. But blues was his forte and first love, and he stayed with it. Virtually every modern blues guitarist, from B. B. King to Stevie Ray Vaughan, has named Walker a prime inspiration. Walker's influence was so inescapable that blues guitarists from the Mississippi Delta to Chicago and from New York to Los Angeles had adapted elements of his approach by the early 50's.
Mosaic's boxed set covers the years of Walker's greatest fame within the black community and catches him at the height of his powers. It is also, incidentally, a fascinating history of changing rhythms in black popular music. On some of the earlier selections, his sense of timing seems at odds with the swing-jazz orientation of the backing musicians, especially when he uses some of the hammering, repeated one-note riff figures most rock-and-roll fans associate with Chuck Berry, another Walker disciple.
Once he signed a contract with Imperial Records in 1950 and was able to use bands more in his groove, almost everything he recorded had an easy, relaxed rhythmic flow, from aching, slow blues to the most up-tempo boogies. One also hears the gradual development of the shuffle rhythm, long a mainstay of Texas blues and possibly a result of rhythm sections trying to reproduce, in an ensemble setting, some of the propulsive left-hand riffs introduced by boogie-woogie pianists. For a mammoth one-artist collection, the T-Bone Walker box is remarkably consistent and engaging, whether listened to intensively or piecemeal.
One might guess from the pervasiveness of the Walker influence that the Vaughan brothers would have grown up playing similarly, but this was not the case. Jimmie Vaughan, a founding member of the Fabulous Thunderbirds until he left the band last June, has never concentrated on developing flash or virtuosity. He is, rather, one of the great band guitarists, able to suggest lead and rhythm figures while anchoring the swing of the group and filling out its sound. This style certainly has its Texas precedence - Frankie Lee Sims comes to mind. When Jimmie Vaughan is soloing, he tends to play tricky, highly syncopated lead melodies spiced liberally with hard-riffing chordal figures; even out front, he plays like a member of the band, not like a hot-shot soloist.
His younger brother was the very epitome of the hot-shot soloist, so much so that most of the criticism he received during his lifetime concerned his abundance of bravura and flash. But during the last few years, Stevie Ray Vaughan had matured considerably. It is still difficult to mistake one Vaughan for the other on ''Family Style'' (Epic 46225; all three formats), but both brothers play with an effectively taut economy throughout, and their interaction as rhythm players is a special treat.
The solo honors, of course, go largely to Stevie Ray Vaughan, who turns in two of his most spectacular solos on record on the songs ''Brothers'' and ''Long Way From Home.'' But this album also finds the brothers expanding from their blues roots into more varied musical terrain, with touches of Cajun, soul, 50's rock-and-roll, modern funk and even gospel music.
At the time of his death, Stevie Ray Vaughan seemed to have been moving toward a more eclectic style of playing, incorporating more of his brother's incisive rhythm. ''Family Style,'' the last studio album he recorded, serves as a worthy testament to his talent by placing it in a specifically Texas-rooted, family context. In the meantime, Jimmie Vaughan plays on, as exciting, unpredictable and underrated as ever. And Mosaic's T-Bone Walker set is now available to bring the sound of the Vaughans' musical godfather to a new generation of listeners.

GRAPHIC: Photos: T-Bone Walker circa 1943 - blues pioneer (Frank Driggs Collection); Stevie Ray Vaughan - Texas-rooted, virtuoso playing on his last studio album (Ebet Roberts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC (76%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (53%); HELICOPTERS (53%); 

PERSON: STEVIE RAY VAUGHAN (69%); 



204 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Former Klan Figure Loses to Incumbent In Louisiana Voting

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 6

 BODY:
Incumbent Senator J. Bennett Johnston Jr. defeated State Representative David Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader, tonight in a race that had become a troubling window on race relations in the United States.
With 70 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Johnston had 53 percent of the vote as against 44 percent for Mr. Duke. Edward Renwick, director of the Institute of Politics at Loyola University, said his polling of selected precincts around the state indicated Mr. Bennett would win the race.
Mr. Duke, a Republican whose appeal to white resentment dominated the race, was never given much chance of winning. But his strong showing in incomplete returns indicated that despite condemnation by national figures in the Republican Party there was a strong groundswell of support for his racially charged agenda. 
 
Mood Against Incumbents
Some analysts said he was also benefiting from a mood against incumbents which has shown itself in elections from Massachusetts to Oklahoma.
Despite Mr. Johnston's apparent victory, opponents of Mr. Duke said they had mixed feelings because of his relatively strong showing. It was thought a vote total below 30 percent would have indicated Mr. Duke had failed to reach out beyond his core constituency. Few analysts expected him to get more than 40 percent of the vote.
Mr. Renwick said if Mr. Duke's performance remained above 40 percent it would indicate that he was receiving around 60 percent of the votes of whites in the state.
''This has been a battleground for the educated white middle class vote and Duke has lost it,'' said Lance Hill, executive director of the Louisiana Coalition, a group opposing Mr. Duke .
But, he added: ''I'd like to see a wider margin.''
 
An Unusual Campaign
The election culminated a race, unusual even by the baroque standards of Louisiana politics, in which a powerful three-term Democratic incumbent and the official nominee of the Republican Party were completely overshadowed by a one-term state representative who has yet to sponsor a single bill passed by the Louisiana Legislature.
Republicans considered Mr. Johnston vulnerable a year ago because of Lousiana's slumping economy and what they considered an overly liberal voting record.
But the race was turned on its head when Mr. Duke, who first ran as a Republican a year ago in the state legislative election, decided to stay in the race after he failed to gain the Republican nomination.
Under Louisiana's election laws, candidates run in a nonpartisan primary. If one candidate wins 50 percent of the vote or more, he is elected. If no one wins 50 percent, the top two finishers meet in a runoff, regardless of their party affiliation.
 
Nominee Withdraws
Mr. Duke's racially charged appeals to white resentment over affirmative action policies, welfare, and other issues almost from the start shoved aside the official Republican nominee, State Senator Ben Bagert of New Orleans. Mr. Bagert spent the race struggling to reach double digits in the polls.
By early summer it was apparent the only question in the race was whether Mr. Johnston could win enough votes to avoid an embarrassing runoff against Mr. Duke.
Mr. Bagert, to the relief of the national Republican Party, announced Thursday that he would drop out of the race, making it essentially a two-man contest. It was expected that the move would insure a primary victory by Mr. Johnston, avoiding a runoff that could hurt Republican candidates nationally and help Mr. Duke by giving him a national audience for his far-right agenda.
Votes cast for Mr. Bagert today did not count. Two other minor candidates were also on the ballot.
Mr. Duke tried to turn Mr. Bagert's withdrawal to his advantage in the race's final days, calling it a ''back-room deal.''
''It's obvious that there's been a deal in the works for a long time,'' Mr. Duke said Friday. ''The fact that one of the major candidates withdrew just a couple of days before the election is unprecedented in Louisiana politics.''
He and his supporters hoped that the national mood of frustration with the political status quo would fuel a backlash that would make the withdrawal work for him.
But Mr. Johnston, campaigning Friday, said he was confident the withdrawal would work for him.
''The message that will go out to the nation is there is no place for racism, no place for Nazism in this state,'' he said.
Jack Kemp, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, joined the growing list of prominent Republicans who have taken the extraordinary step of working to insure the victory of the Democratic incumbent. Earlier eight Republican senators had called for Mr. Johnston's re-election.
''I was for Bagert, but now I'm asking my conservative friends to vote for Bennett Johnston,'' Mr. Kemp said. ''There's no place in the Republican Party for someone who has practiced and practices racism, bigotry and anti-Semitism.''
For Mr. Johnston, Louisiana's senior Senator, the race was in keeping with an electoral career that has been marked by a fair amount of good fortune.
In 1972, he narrowly lost the gubernatorial primary to Edwin Edwards. A few months later, he was the only major politician to file against United States Senator Allen Ellender, who had held the seat since 1936 and was a political protege of Huey Long.
Mr. Ellender died after the filing date but before the primary. In 1978, Mr. Johnston was opposed by an arch-conservative state legislator, Woody Jenkins, who got 40 percent of the vote in a poorly financed effort. In 1984, despite the landslide for President Ronald Reagan that hurt other Democrats, Mr. Johnston drew only token opposition.
In running against Mr. Duke, this time he drew a candidate who attracted enormous attention, but was never given much of a chance of winning the election.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator J. Bennett Johnston, accompanied by his daughter Mary Johnson Catallo, arriving at his election night headquarters. Mr. Bennett won a fourth term, beating State Representative David Duke. (Associated Press) (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (96%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); KU KLUX KLAN; REPUBLICAN PARTY KU KLUX KLAN; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; RACIAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; JOHNSTON, J BENNETT (SEN); DUKE, DAVID J BENNETT JOHNSTON (93%); SCOTT DAVID (74%); 



205 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Cash and Silent Victims, New York Thieves Prey on Asians

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
As Min Su Yoo, a 42-year-old waiter who works in Chinatown, waited for the No. 6 train at the Canal Street subway station last month, two men dressed in jeans and dark jackets approached him, pulled out knives, and demanded his wallet.
Fearing for his life, Mr. Yoo, who immigrated to the United States from Seoul, South Korea, five years ago, handed over the wallet, which he said contained a week's pay - $300. Mr. Yoo said he never reported the crime because ''the police never catch the thieves.''
Hundreds of Asian New Yorkers like Mr. Yoo have been robbed in the subway system in the last year in what law-enforcement officials describe as a growing and disturbing trend of subway attacks against people of Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Filipino and Vietnamese descent.
 
Tourists Also Victimized
''For the experienced criminal, Asians have become easy pickings,'' said Paul Yee, the president of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association, a community organization based in Chinatown. ''The muggers know that most Asians do not use credit cards and usually have cash in their pockets and jewelry around their necks. They also know they will not report crimes.'' 
Another reason that Asians are often the victims of crime is that they are perceived as less likely to resist, Mr. Yee and the police said.
For those same reasons, tourists from Asian countries have become frequent targets of taxi and limousine scams at New York City airports in which drivers grossly overcharge for trips to Manhattan.
Law-enforcement officials in other major cities with large East Asian populations, like Los Angeles and San Francisco, said they had not experienced a similar increase in robberies and schemes aimed at Asians.
But in New York, the number of subway robberies and airport transit schemes involving Asian victims is rising so quickly that the transit police and Taxi and Limousine Commission are placing Asian decoys in the subways and airport terminals to catch thieves.
The total number of subway robberies increased 56 percent to 8,269 in 1989, up from 5,290 in 1987. But the number of reported subway robberies against Asians nearly tripled in the same period, to 905 in 1989 from 304 in 1987, according to the transit police.
The actual number of robberies of Asians may be more than three times the reported figures, Mr. Yee said, because for a variety of reasons many Asians are reluctant to report crimes to the police.
Some, especially recent immigrants, do not trust the police because they associate them with often hostile police and military forces in their homelands, Mr. Yee and other Asian community leaders said. In addition, many Asians, like many other New Yorkers, feel that reporting a robbery is a waste of time since they think it is unlikely that the police will recover their property.
Often Asian victims do not speak English, Mr. Yee said, and it is difficult to find a police interpreter who speaks their language or dialect.
 
Trend Seen Continuing
Because of the reluctance of Asian victims like Mr. Yoo to report crimes, the police and community leaders may learn about them only through word of mouth, if at all. Still, transit police officials said they expected the number of subway robberies involving Asians to continue to increase this year.
Since the Asian decoy unit of the transit police went into operation on Aug. 10, officers have arrested 20 suspects, 18 of whom have been indicted. The decoy unit, which consists of men and women who pose as Asian tourists, businesspeople and shoppers, patrols mainly in Chinatown, midtown Manhattan, and Flushing, Queens.
''We want to put fear in the minds of criminals that the next Asian person they rob in the subways might be a cop,'' said Lieut. Jack Maple, commanding officer of the transit police's central robbery division.
Decoy officers work in groups of three or four, with one officer as a potential robbery target while the others serve as backup, Lieutenant Maple said. He declined to say how many officers were assigned to the unit, but inspectors from the Taxi and Limousine Commission estimated that there were about 20.
 
Judging Body Language
''The decoy more or less presents himself or herself as a target,'' he said. ''If we see some guys standing on the staircase displaying body language that is suspicious, we would pass a decoy by them.''
The transit police force is also conducting an outreach program in the Asian community to encourage victims of crimes to report them. Lieutenant Maple said that the force holds seminars in the community to distribute information on subway safety measures. He credits the outreach program for a rise in the number of subway crimes reported by Asians in recent years.
Community leaders said that while they feel the subway and airport decoy programs will deter attacks against Asians, more police officers, better lighting and safer subway stations are also needed. ''The best deterrent to crime is the visible police presence,'' said Mr. Yee of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association.
He said the Benevolent Association is conducting an education campaign in Chinatown to encourage residents not to wear expensive jewelry or carry large amounts of cash in the subways. ''Asians like to pay by cash, but we are trying to convince people in our community that there are better, safer ways to complete transactions,'' Mr. Yee said. $75 Cab Fares For the last year, the Taxi and Limousine Commission has stationed decoys, many of whom are Asian, at the terminals at Kennedy International Airport to catch taxi and limousine drivers who either overcharge patrons or illegally solicit fares. The decoys dress like tourists or foreign businesspeople, and many carry several pieces of luggage, fishing rods and cameras.
Thomas Ng, a Chinese inspector who has posed as a foreign businessman at Kennedy Airport, said that in a single day five separate taxi drivers told him that it would cost at least $75 to take him into Manhattan.
Shoon Mack, another inspector who is Chinese, said: ''Asians have a reputation for being rich and spending money - that's why they go after us. In the midst of the crowd and confusion, many Asian tourists just pay the exorbitant rate so they can get on with their vacation.''
Typically, a scheme artist goes to the baggage claim area of an Asian airline and gets a passenger's name from luggage. He then holds up a large sign on which he has written the passenger's name, and convinces the passenger that a friend or hotel has sent the car to take the passenger to the hotel.
An unsuspecting tourist, who may be accustomed in other countries to being met by a driver from a hotel, sees the sign with his or her name on it falls for the ploy, the inspectors said.
Once the tourist is in the car, the scheme artist charges anywhere from $100 to $300 for a ride that would normally cost about $30. Many Asian tourists agree to pay because they often do not know the exchange rate or they are used to paying several hundred dollars for airport transportation in their own countries, the inspectors said. If a tourist refuses to pay the fee, the scheme artists sometime threaten to hurt him or to take his luggage.
Some Asian community leaders see the increase in crime against Asians -particularly against immigrant workers - as part of a rising tide of anti-Asian sentiment in the United States.
''We are in a bad period economically, and Asians are often scapegoated as people who have no right to be here and work here,'' said Monona Yin, a spokeswoman for the Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence, a local group formed to increase awareness of the issue. Such hostility, she said, is even reflected in Washington, where lawmakers engage in ''Japan-bashing'' over the issue of fair trade practices.
''But the truth is,'' Ms. Yin said, ''most Asians in New York are not wealthy. They work in garment factories and restaurants in jobs that other people don't want.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Asians have become easy pickings,'' said Paul Yee, president of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association. He waited at the Canal Street subway station, the site of a recent robbery, one incident in what law-enforcement officials describe as a growing and disturbing trend of attacks against Asians. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times) (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHINESE CONSOLIDATED BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINESE CONSOLIDATED BENEVOLENT ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; SUBWAYS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ROBBERY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (86%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); TRENDS (75%); AIRPORTS (69%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; YEE, PAUL MIN SU YOO (85%); PAUL YEE (82%); 



206 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 47, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Irish-Americans Praise New Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

 BODY:
In the heavily Irish community of Woodside, Queens, they are already celebrating new immigration legislation approved in the House last week, as if it were raining green cards.
''We're euphoric at this juncture,'' said Claire O'Gara Grimes, publisher of The Irish Echo, who said she hoped some 30,000 illegal Irish immigrants would receive the much coveted permanent residence cards under the bill, known as the Family Unity and Employment Opportunity Immigration Act of 1990. The bill, whose chief sponsor was Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of Connecticut, seeks to open the nation's doors to three-quarters of a million foreigners a year - particularly family members of American citizens or permanent residents. The bill raises the ceiling to 775,000 aliens a year from 540,000 and also makes it easier for workers with technical and managerial skills to immigrate. 
For the Irish, the most important part of the Morrison bill is the section that gives virtual amnesty to all the illegal Irish immigrants in the country, and to aliens from some other Western European countries.
Opponents of the bill, headed by the lobbying group, the Federation of American Immigration Reform, complain that it significantly increases the number of legal immigrants.
''The reform will be a shot in the arm for New York, whose economy has always thrived on immigration,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who serves on the House immigration subcommittee.
 
Support From Broad Coalition
In New York City the bill has been supported by a broad coalition from labor, business, church and civil rights and neighborhood organizations.
The Irish Immigration Reform Movement, an organization based in Woodside that has led support for the bill, is optimistic but cautions that there are still ''two more hurdles'': a House-Senate conference later this week to resolve differences between the House bill and a similar one adopted by the Senate last year and a possible Presidential veto.
Major corporations and hospitals have shown considerable interest in the immigration bill. Eileen Rowland, the assistant director for nursing recruitment at Beth Israel Medical Center, expressed approval of ''the spirit and intent of the legislation that will enable us to access foreign health providers from abroad.'' She said that New York City had a shortage of registered nurses and other medical personnel.
Some companies applaud changes in the law because it would be easier to recruit aliens who are in the United States to get advanced degrees.
Other New Yorkers appear less enthusiastic and have expressed reservations.
Arthur Helton, who heads the political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, described the bill as ''good news for an immigrant city like New York,'' but he said that it had ''an element of bias'' in favor of northern Europeans. Mr. Helton, however, applauded a provision granting safe haven to political refugees, specifically those from El Salvador, Kuwait, Liberia and Lebanon.
Some community and ethnic organizations, critical of the ''regional diversity'' provision favoring western Europe, have been won over to the bill because of its family provisions. ''We support the family side of the bill, which is beneficial to Asians,'' said Stanley Mark, a leader of the Asian-American Legal Defense and Education Fund.
''We think the bill is positive overall because it preserves and improves the family-based immigration system,'' said Marla Kamiya, a staff member at the Center for Immigrants Rights. The Manhattan advocacy group recently voiced support for the Morrison bill. But it objected to special visas for the 36 mainly European countries. Those countries, it said, were ''adversely affected'' by the 1965 Immigration Act. But before the 1965 Act those countries had historically been favored.
Although the City Bar Association in New York has not taken a stand on the change, Allan Wernick, chairman of the association's Committee on Immigration and Nationality Law said the legislation reflected ''an important shift in public understanding.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; IRISH-AMERICANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; AMNESTIES IMMIGRATION (96%); IMMIGRATION LAW (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); AMNESTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NURSES & NURSING (85%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); APPROVALS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); VETO (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); HEALTH CARE (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); 

PERSON: HOWE, MARVINE CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 



207 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 38, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Nominee for California Governor Steers Careful Course to the Center

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MONTECITO, Calif., Oct. 6

 BODY:
The setting could not have been further from the urban scourge of crack babies. But it was here in this wealthy coastal enclave that Pete Wilson, United States Senator and Republican candidate for governor of California, brought his oft-repeated message of compassion.
He and his wife, Gayle, had seen ''children so tiny you can hold them in the palm of one hand, in the agony of withdrawal from drugs,'' he told the nearly all white, mostly elderly or middle-aged,members of the Channel City Club the other day in this community of huge Spanish-style homes, lush gardens of bougainvillea and swimming pools. ''That is a very sad sight.''
Those comments were followed by a call for 15 years extra prison time for the ''terrible scum'' who sell drugs, a line that got a round of applause for the 57-year-old lawyer, politician and Yalie standing before the microphone in his natural-shoulder gray suit (buttoned), pale blue shirt and red-striped tie. 
This is the man the national Republican Party is counting on to capture the biggest electoral prize of 1990, the leadership of the most populous state. Mr. Wilson is a politician who defies easy ideological definition, who has steered a skillful course over the political shoals, left and right, and emerged in the center as the quintessential California Republican: liberal on issues like the environment and social matters, conservative on crime and economic policy.
 
Polls Are Close
Some call him bland and lacking in charisma, some say he is a chameleon, an opportunist ready to change color with the political seasons. But nobody underestimates Mr. Wilson, least of all his Democratic opponent, Dianne Feinstein, former Mayor of San Francisco, who offers herself as the ''agent of change'' against the white men in charge, Senator Wilson and the other ''suits,'' as she calls them.
As the campaign enters its final month, nearly all the polls suggest the two have dueled to a draw. A turning point could be a televised debate, the first of two, scheduled for Sunday night.
In a way, the two are mirror images, both hewing close to the political center, but trying to keep enough distance from each other so voters can tell the difference. Ms. Feinstein repels from the Democratic left, offering a message of toughness on crime. Mr. Wilson, also a former big-city Mayor, of San Diego, steers left of the Republican mainstream, frequently clashing with Republican Administrations on matters like oil drilling off the California coast and abortion. While distinct differences have emerged recently, both support abortion rights, both favor the dealth penalty and both pose themselves as advocates for the environment and foes of offshore oil drilling.
''I am very much what California Republicans are,'' Mr. Wilson said in an interview. ''They are fiscally conservative - the tax revolt is far from dead - and very much concerned about crime and drugs. They are also pro-choice, pro-environment, strong on national defense and big for education and the death penalty. I am a pro-business environmentalist who is not afraid to tell the Sierra Club when they are wrong.''
 
Somewhat Indistinct
But after 23 years in California politics, the last eight as Senator, Pete Wilson remains a somewhat indistinct face to voters.
Before Ms. Feinstein decided to run for governor, her strategists reportedly showed voters pictures of Mr. Wilson, Lieut. Gov. Leo T. McCarthy and Attorney General John K. Van de Kamp, whom she defeated in the Democratic primary. They found that few could identify any of the three men.
Senator Wilson and his close aides are acutely aware and resentful that Ms. Feinstein has captured the national publicity on the race. ''She's telegenic,'' conceded Mr. Wilson, but added that he felt that her ''bonanza'' of national media attention would not translate into votes in California.
Political insiders say Mr. Wilson has the clear advantage when it comes to organization. His is a loyal, battle-tested campaign staff, far smoother than Ms. Feinstein's. And he has raised far more money than Ms. Feinstein, a factor that could be critical in the final media blitz, although a recent ruling by a Federal judge invalidating California's limit on individual campaign contributions might narrow that gap.
 
A Subdued Style
His style could not be more different from the mercurial, sometimes authoritarian Ms. Feinstein. Calm, pragmatic, almost serene on the campaign trail, Mr. Wilson is dogged, orderly, organized. ''He spends a lot of time being prepared,'' said one of his closest aides, Otto Bos. ''He does not like to go in without the facts. We works late at night. He delegates authority well.''
His wit is quick, dry and often self-deprecating. He has said his campaign for the Republican nomination for governor in 1978, which failed, ''became a haven for those who despise crowds.''
He based his first campaign for mayor in 1971 on a platform of controlling growth, and he succeeded in ''striking a maintainable balance between the forces of no growth and the business community,'' said Samuel Popkin, a political scientist at the University of California at San Diego.
But Mr. Wilson tempered his moderate instincts during the Reagan era and became more conservative, Mr. Popkin said, and since has ''shown a real hestitancy to get out front.''
But Mr. Wilson promises to be an active governor, to lead the state out of deepening problems with education, pollution and crime. ''I do not intend to come back to wear the governership as a boutonniere,'' he said recently. ''Nor do I intend to come back to be a political survivor. Pardon me, but I intend to come back to make waves.''
 
Drugs Are a Top Priority
A top priority is the drug problem, particularly crack addiction, not an issue near and dear to the Republican rank and file. He has proposed establishing a state program to provide $1,750 worth of prenatal care to pregnant women and has called for a program to rehabilitate pregnant addicts, compelling those who refuse to enter such treatment to give up their children, although he has been vague about how to pay for this. Mr. Bos says Mr. Wilson and his wife have been moved to tears by visits with crack babies.
Lest he seem too liberal, he combines this with calls for tougher sentencing for violent crime and drug dealing and he attacks the ''arrogant liberals'' in the State Assembly who have blocked such laws.
He also has an education platform, which calls for merit pay for superior teachers, a statewide program to provide adult mentors for poor children and ''alternative credentialing'' to allow people without conventional teaching backgrounds to teach.
He differs with Ms. Feinstein on a number of issues.
For example, to cover what is expected to be a large shortfall in the new governor's first budget, she has called for increasing state income taxes for individuals making more than $100,000 a year and couples earning more than $200,000. Senator Wilson has flatly rejected any income tax increase.
 
Difference on Environment
On the environment, Ms. Feinstein has endorsed a sweeping voter-initiated referendum to ban many pesiticides and set up a new state environmental ''advocate'' with special legal powers independent of the Governor. Mr. Wilson calls for its defeat, saying he would prefer to consolidate environmental authority into a ''California E.P.A.,'' headed by a Cabinet secretary who reports to the Governor.
The candidates also differ on how best to break the perennial logjam on drawing up the state budget.
In all this, Senator Wilson is expected to make inroads into traditional areas of Democratic strength. He has won wide admiration among Jews for his staunch support for Israel and has earned credits in traditionally liberal Hollywood circles for backing the motion picture industry in its regulatory battle with the television networks over syndication of reruns.
But even top Republicans acknowledge that Mr. Wilson is facing a tough fight. ''The problem Wilson has is getting people to know what he stands for,'' said Steven A. Merksamer, former campaign manager and chief of staff to the incumbent Governor, George Deukmejian, a Republican. ''With Ronald Reagan, you knew where he was. With Deukmejian, you know where he stands. But with Pete Wilson, there have not been such bold colors. He is less of a lightning rod.''
He continued: ''Feinstein is a formidable candidate. This election is not going to turn on abortion, taxation, death penalty or any other myriad issues, but on leadership - on who the voters perceive as having that amorphous quality to reach out to the hopes and aspirations of the average Californian.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Pete Wilson, Republican candidate for California governor, at a Beverly Hills fund-raiser last week. (Bart Bartholemew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA REPUBLICAN (75%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); ABORTION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MAYORS (77%); MEN (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); LAWYERS (66%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT DIANNE FEINSTEIN (57%); 



208 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: The Uproar at Dartmouth: How a Conservative Weekly Inflamed a Campus

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HANOVER, N.H., Oct. 5

 BODY:
For a decade, many students and professors at Dartmouth College have watched with quiet dismay - and occasional anger - as a handful of writers at a conservative weekly shaped a public perception of Dartmouth as hostile toward blacks, women and Jews.
But Dartmouth erupted in fury this week after The Dartmouth Review, the off-campus weekly, carried an anti-Semitic quotation from Hitler on its masthead on the first day of Yom Kippur, the most solemn Jewish holy day.
''Our decadelong silence is over,'' Brian V. Ellner, a junior from New York who is president of the student government, told a rally of 2,500 people, more than half the student body, at a rally on Thursday. ''We have come together at last to tell the world that The Review does not represent Dartmouth.'' The crowd roared its approval. 
 
'A Week of Infamy'
And James O. Freedman, the college's president, told the rally, ''This has been a week of infamy for the Dartmouth community.'' In an interview later, he said the university's reputation and recruitment efforts were being jeopardized by The Review.
''I am very angry,'' he said. ''What I feel most of all is a deep sense of embarrassment. When I am off campus, The Review is all people want to talk about, and they don't realize The Review doesn't have any real influence here at Dartmouth itself.''
But Mr. Freedman acknowledged that the outside world's perception of Dartmouth is now hurting the school, making it harder to recruit faculty members and black students. ''I also think this latest incident will have a damaging effect on Jewish admissions,'' he said.
The situation has been particularly painful for Mr. Freedman, who is Jewish and who is widely credited here with making a series of changes to raise Dartmouth's academic stature.
Supporters of The Review, which is financed by prominent conservatives and foundations, have responded angrily to the attacks from Mr. Freedman and others. At first the editors apologized for the quotation from Hitler, which included the sentence ''By warding off the Jews, I am fighting for the Lord's work.'' They said they did not know how it had been inserted, and they promised to track down whoever was responsible.
But at a combative news conference on Thursday, Dinesh D'Souza, a trustee of The Review who is a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, called the insertion ''a criminal act of sabotage'' and added, ''I do not rule out that it was done by a mole, a saboteur, someone who did not have The Review's best interest at heart.''
Mr. D'Souza, a former Review editor who was a policy adviser in the Reagan White House, charged that the incident was ''being cynically manipulated by the college leadership in order to ruin the lives of many innocent students.''
In part, the current furor represents a culmination of anger at a long series of slurs or attacks by The Review since its founding in 1980. The paper was started to combat what it has called ''the twisted idealism of the 60's, a bastard brand of liberalism'' that supports co-education, affirmative action, and a weakening of Dartmouth's old image as a hard-drinking, all-male school.
In its first year, The Review sponsored a free lobster-and-champagne feast to coincide with a campus fast for the world's hungry. In 1981 it published a list of members of the school's Gay Students Association. Then in 1982, it ran a column in ''black English'' suggesting that black students were illiterate. As an editor, Mr. D'Souza once wrote, ''The question is not whether women should be educated at Dartmouth, but whether they should be educated at all.''
For years The Review campaigned against William S. Cole, a black professor of music who has since left Dartmouth, saying he ''looks like a used Brillo pad,'' and sending students to harass him in class. ''A goodly number of Cole's students are black,'' The Review wrote in one article. ''Some allege that these are affirmative action kids looking for a course they can handle.''
Now many at Dartmouth say such incidents have tarnished the reputation of the whole campus. Dr. Freedman said that last spring, a survey of high school seniors who were accepted at Dartmouth and three other prestigious New England colleges showed that Dartmouth was overwhelmingly viewed as the most conservative and the least intellectual.
Allen Drexel, a senior from San Antonio, said, ''You constantly hear stories about teachers telling their minority students not to come here.''
The number of blacks in the freshman class is 51, or 4.7 percent, down from 91 two years ago.
 
Raising Campus's Stature
The Review, which is distributed to students free, has an advisory board that includes the columnist Patrick Buchanan and the economist George Gilder. Its masthead offers ''special thanks'' to William F. Buckley Jr., who stepped down tonight as the longtime editor of National Review. The Review's current editor-in-chief, Kevin C. Pritchett, has worked for three summers for the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal.
Lost in the debate over The Review, many here say, are Mr. Freedman's measures to raise Dartmouth's academic stature. It still loses five out of the six students it accepts if they are also accepted at Harvard, Yale, Princeton or Stanford. So Mr. Freedman, who became president in 1987, has set up a special program to have juniors and seniors work more closely with professors, and has succeeded in hiring a number of well-regarded scholars and deans.
The Review has derided these actions, saying Mr. Freedman is trying to ''Harvardize'' Dartmouth.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 7 about The Dartmouth Review misattributed the quotation "The question is not whether women should be educated at Dartmouth but whether theyshould be educated at all." Dinesh D'Souza, a former editor of The Review, was not the author; the remark first appeared in The Review in 1980 as part of a compilation of provocative quotations. It was attributed then to Keeney Jones, who was not further identified. Mr. D'Souza referred to the comment in a 1986 Review article as an example of the paper's "outrageous streak" in its efforts to stir debate on campus. The misattribution was called to The Times's attention by Mr. D'Souza in mid-October; publication of this correction was delayed pending research by The Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dartmouth College students at a protest on Friday against The Dartmouth Review, an off-campus weekly supported by prominent conservatives. The paper, which students have accused of bigotry, printed a quotation from Hitler on Yom Kippur, the most sacred Jewish holiday. (Suki Coughlin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (94%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE; DARTMOUTH REVIEW

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ANTI-SEMITISM CONSERVATISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WRITERS (78%); RIOTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); YOM KIPPUR (77%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; FREEDMAN, JAMES O JAMES O FREEDMAN (72%); DINESH D'SOUZA (71%); 



209 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Mosquitoes' Threat Disrupting Florida Nightlife

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VERO BEACH, Fla., Oct. 6

 BODY:
Phyllis Capece, a nurse, forfeited four hours' pay and showed up at the game with her beeper. Her husband, Pete, left his athletic store, Active Feet, three hours early. Matt Parris, a college freshman in Orlando, cut his English class and made the 90-mile drive home in record time. Mary Ann Driskell was stuck: she had to babysit.
Friday nights in this citrus town on Florida's east coast revolve around the Vero Beach High School football game. This Friday, however, the fans had to rearrange their lives to get to the stadium in the afternoon. The reason: an outbreak of St. Louis encephalitis that began about a month ago, carried by mosquitoes that prefer to bite at night. On the advice of health officials, kickoff time was moved from the traditional 7:30 P.M. to 4:01. 
Although only 26 instances of the disease have been reported throughout central and south Florida, it can be fatal, so a multitude of nighttime acivities have been scrapped by officials, merchants and families. At Walt Disney World, evening water pageants have been canceled, and pools are closing before sundown. The Treasure Coast Boy Scouts have canceled their October Jamboree.
Vero Beach is in Indian River County, which has 11 of the state's 26 cases. No deaths have been reported. 'How Dare You Change?'
There are some who apparently feel that it should take more than mosquitoes, however deadly, to disrupt Vero Beach's cherished Friday night tradition. Rosemarie Livings is an assistant principal at the high school, and the wife of the coach, Billy Livings. ''People were calling up and saying, 'How dare you change the game?' '' she said Friday afternoon, as she cheered the Indians on from her usual spot, under the press box. ''They were acting like their lives were ruined. What can you do? You just go on.''
St. Louis encephalitis is one of about 10 types of the disease transmitted by mosquitoes. It is caused by a virus that is injected into the blood when the insect bites. Symptoms may include high fever, headache, nausea and dizziness, and the elderly are likely to be most seriously affected. In general, about 15 percent of victims die.
Neither a treatment nor a preventive, such as a vaccine, exists for encephalitis. Health officials are urging Floridians who go outside in the evenings to wear clothing that covers the arms and legs.
 
More than a Waiting List
But in Vero Beach, which has the only high school in the county, there is a waiting list for season tickets, at $5 a game. ''We've had divorce settlements held up over who gets the tickets,'' Mrs. Livings said. ''People die on a Friday, and on Monday people call up asking if they can have their season tickets.''
The population of the town is 17,000, and more than 7,000 fans pack the stadium for home games. Football brings everyone here together; black and white students play together and black and white fans sit together.
This Friday the Indians, who were 3 and 1 for the season, faced Coral Gables High School, undefeated and ranked third in the state. Coach Livings was worried that his boys would be playing before an empty stadium.
''We've never played an afternoon game,'' he said. ''This is a working town. You'd think on a Friday afternoon at 4 o'clock a dead goat couldn't draw flies.''
 
The Regulars Arrive
But somehow the fans made it to the Citrus Bowl, as the stadium is called, in the center of town. The Rev. Julius Rice of the United Church of Christ was there, one row down from Mrs. Livings, where he always sits. Elva Agise, an economics teacher at the high school, was in her seat nearby. So was Dr. Phil Morgan, a surgeon who was the Fighting Indians' doctor for 20 years, and Bob and Jo Orton.
Mr. Orton played tackle for the Indians 30 years ago. That was in another era, predating the arrival of Billy Livings, who had been a high school coaching legend in Montgomery, Ala., before he arrived here in 1980.
''They said I had to produce in three years or I was gone,'' Coach Livings, 54 years old, said. ''The first year we went to the semifinals. The second year we won the state championship. The third year we went to the semifinals.''
Matt Parris, who graduated last year, played quarterback for Coach Livings. ''He's the head man,'' Mr. Parris said yesterday, in the stands with his former Indians teammate, Robbie Crawford. ''He's the most important man in town.''
In Vero Beach, Mr. Parris is known as the son of Gary Parris, a star wide receiver for the Indians more than 20 years ago. Gary Parris went on to play professional ball. Eventually he came home and he makes his living as a citrus salesman. But on Friday nights he returns to the stadium to report on the game for a local radio station.
The Indians' team colors are red and white, and yesterday the stadium was awash in red and white. Mr. and Mrs. Capece moved here six years ago from Staten Island. They had never heard of the Fighting Indians.
''We'd be out at a restaurant on a Friday night, and everyone would be wearing red and white,'' Mr. Capece said. ''We said, 'What's with the red and white?' Then we found out.''
A lot of the fans said the game wasn't the same somehow, played in the afternoon sunlight instead of under the stadium lights and a sky full of stars.
But the change didn't seem to hurt the Indians; they beat Coral Gables 24-7. The Indians' star tailback, James Stewart, known as Elbow, rushed for 200 yards. Charles Morgan, a defensive back, plucked off two passes.
Still, after the game, some fans looked a little lost. They said they weren't sure how they would fill their Friday night without football.
''Maybe we'll go to the mall,'' Mrs. Orton said.
''What should we do, Phyllis?'' Mr. Capece asked his wife plaintively.
No one reported having been bitten by a mosquito. No one, apparently, had even seen a mosquito.
''I've been coming to games here for 11 years,'' Mrs. Livings said, ''and I've never been bitten by a mosquito.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An outbreak of St. Louis encephalitis, carried by mosquitoes that bite at night, forced officials in Vero Beach, Fla., to move up an evening football game. Rosemarie Livings sprayed insect repellant on her granddaughter, Lindsay, at the Vero Beach High School game. (Joe Skipper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERO BEACH (FLA)

SUBJECT: ENCEPHALITIS; MOSQUITOES MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DISEASE REPORTING (75%); BITES & STINGS (74%); FAMILY LAW (73%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (71%); VACCINES (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA MATT PARRIS (73%); ROSEMARIE LIVINGS (65%); GARY PARRIS (55%); JO ORTON (55%); 



210 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Weighing Balance Between War and Diplomacy

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Two months after Iraq invaded Kuwait, the Bush Administration's policy in the Persian Gulf hangs between war and peace, balancing on a few key issues that will determine whether the United States uses military force against Iraq.
At this unpredictable point in the crisis, President Bush and his senior advisers insist that they are not committed to a particular course of action, are considering several new diplomatic moves that could avert the threat of war, and are beginning to make tentative plans for what Secretary of State James A. Baker 3rd calls a ''new political order'' for the region.
But interviews with senior officials suggest that Mr. Bush and his top aides have concluded over the last nine weeks that as much as the President may want to avoid war, a conflict with Iraq would be an acceptable risk since they believe that Iraq could be defeated, and perhaps relatively quickly.
''We have the means and the will to address any further Iraqi aggression,'' said one of the officials, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity.
 
Some U.S. Assumptions
Behind American policy in the gulf is a set of judgments and assumptions that guide Mr. Bush as he seeks to maintain the precarious balance of his policy. They will also help determine when and if he has to face the ultimate decision about sending American troops into combat. 
There are forces drawing the Administration toward war: the Iraqi Army's dismantling of Kuwait; Administration officials' confidence that the alliance against Iraq would hold together if Iraq started a war and that United Nations approval could be obtained quickly, and their suspicion that the Iraqi Army might not stand up long against the modern force assembled in Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Bush and his advisers are increasingly grappling, as well, with the notion that a peaceful solution may work only in the short term and that President Saddam Hussein's withdrawal from Kuwait under economic and diplomatic pressure would not resolve the question of how to neutralize his army as a power in the region.
Weighing against these pressures are the success so far of the economic sanctions; the prospect of heavy Arab, American and European casualties; the potential economic disruption that could be caused by a war in the oilfields, and the possibility that Israel could be drawn into the fighting and threaten Arab unity.
 
Limiting Options
''It's premature to say that war is becoming inevitable,'' a senior official said. ''The completion of the military buildup does not foreclose the President's options; it simply completes them. Some people argue a la Napoleon that you can do anything with a sword except sit on it. I say that's wrong.''
The critical factors in the equation of war and peace are Mr. Hussein himself and the manner in which war might break out.
Administration officials will not discuss military options for quotation in news articles, but they have left the impression in recent weeks that there are clear redlines: an Iraqi attack on Saudi Arabia or its oilfields, terrorist or military attacks on American, Arab or European forces stationed in Saudia Arabia, or an attack on Israel.
In such cases, Mr. Bush would be able to order military action relatively freely, officials believe. But it would be harder for the President to decide that there had been enough cumulative provocations by Iraq and that he could no longer wait for the economic sanctions to force Mr. Hussein out of Kuwait.
 
Some Possible Provocations
''There is a broad category of things that could start to add up,'' one official said, ''like actions against Americans who are held in Kuwait or Iraq, actions against the foreign community in general, the events in Kuwait themselves.''
He added, however, that ''there is no clear time line for when enough is enough.''
Administration officials said they are confident that if there is a clear aggression by Iraq, the United Nations would authorize military action. ''One circumstance could be if someone walked in and said a missile attack had just been launched on Saudi Arabia,'' an official said.
He said the United States is confident that it could respond militarily to a clear aggression, and then seek United Nations approval. ''Under a clear evidence of aggression, you could probably get a resolution at the United Nations in a matter of a couple of hours,'' the official said.
Although the United States believes there is ample legal justification in the United Nations Charter for the use of military force, the official said, ''If at some point action has to be taken, it obviously would be politically useful to have U.N. sanction.''
 
What Moscow Might Do
The Bush Administration believes that the Soviet Union will not oppose or interfere with provoked military action, even if it does not take part, officials said. But they said any military operation would have to have a multinational character.
The United States could, for example, carry out the air portion of a war with Iraq on its own. But officials here believe that any attempt to force Iraq out of Kuwait militarily would require a ground war, and that such an operation must include Arab soldiers.
The officials said they are calculating that the Arab coalition, as well as the alliance with European countries, would hold together if the United States responded to a clear aggression by Iraq. That is less likely if Mr. Bush decides that he cannot wait any longer for the sanctions to work. The coalition also could rupture if Iraq drew Israel into the fight.
Officials declined to discuss the issue of casualties, not just of United States forces but also among the Arab and European troops in Saudi Arabia, and how that might affect a decision to use military force in the gulf. But officials said there is genuine fear that Iraq might use poison gas or biological weapons, and they leave the impression that military planners are concerned that casualties might be high.
 
The Sanctions Work
The hand of those in the Administration and in other countries who argue that the sanctions against Iraq should be given time to work is strengthened by the success of those sanctions so far, which has come as a surprise to Mr. Bush and his top aides.
Administration officials say they still do not have a clear idea of how long the sanctions should be given. But the issue has been complicated by the Iraqi Army's efforts to eradicate Kuwait as a state, including what American officials say has been large-scale plundering of property. American planners fear that there may soon be nothing left to restore in the emirate.
''There's a race between the sanctions and the dismantling of Kuwait,'' an official said. ''The sanctions obviously won't have had their effect before the dismantling takes place.''
Administration analysts who closely follow the events in the gulf said the global embargo on exports to Iraq of food and other goods is unlikely to visibly affect Mr. Hussein's Government until next year. They said it may be possible for Iraq to increase its farm production to partially offset the loss of agricultural imports.
 
A Decision Required
An official said the events in Kuwait ''put us up against a wall.''
''That doesn't mean we use military force right away,'' he said, ''but we have to make a decision about what we are going to do here.''
Officials said the options still available short of war include United Nations resolutions that would impose sanctions on those who violate the existing sanctions, denounce Iraqi attempts to destroy Kuwait, call for Iraq to pay reparations to Kuwaitis and, as a last resort, make direct reference to parts of the United Nations Charter that allow for the use of military force.
A senior official said the United States must prepare for the possibility that the Iraqi Army would be formidable. But he said there is also a suspicion that the Iraqi forces, which have been tested in battle only against an equally ill-equipped Iranian Army, may buckle after a relatively short period.
 
U.S. View of Iraqi Leader
The Administration's diplomatic strategy gambles that Mr. Hussein simply does not want a war and will eventually agree to withdraw from Kuwait.
But some officials argue that this is far from a perfect solution. ''The bottom line is that if Saddam survives this, even if he leaves Kuwait, he's still the superman of the gulf,'' a Government analyst said. ''He keeps his army, gets the Palestinian debate going. Kuwait is forever destabilized.''
Working on the assumption that they will be able to force Iraq out of Kuwait without a war, Administration officials have started to craft Mr. Baker's ''new political order'' for the Middle East.
But even that prospect has some potentially troublesome aspects, since it raises the politically hot question of a more or less permanent American military force in the Gulf.
An Administration official said the United States was giving preliminary consideration to plans that would store large amounts of equipment, weapons, ammunition and even planes in Saudi Arabia.
''You could create with the Saudis some facilities and a sort of skeleton structure so that if you would have to go back in to help, you could do so quickly,'' an official said. ''That kind of thing would make it easier for United States troops to be withdrawn quicker, and it would be very much in keeping with the overall view of all the players that Western forces, particularly United States ground forces, should not be kept in Saudi Arabia.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); ARAB AMERICANS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 



211 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Jordanians Resentful as Tourism and Business Fall

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERASH, Jordan, Oct. 2

 BODY:
Close by old columns that have soared since Roman times beneath a bowl of sky in this north Jordanian town, two men played slow chess, a policeman watched, half-interested, and Ibrahim Mustafa Smaaly, a vendor, counted his take for the day: three postcards at 50 cents each.
A year ago, he said, his shaded stall, which offers carved wooden camels, guidebooks, checkered headdress, cheap daggers and much more besides, would have produced a turnover 100 times greater.
But the crisis in the Persian Gulf has driven away foreign tourists from places like the forum and amphitheater of Jerash and put pressure on Jordan's economy. In the process, it has built a growing sense of resentment and injustice at what people like Mr. Smaaly see as a Western urge to punish his land for what he calls a ''noble stand'' in the crisis - a position that Americans and other Westerners have interpreted as a clear siding with Iraq. 
''We can't understand this,'' he said. ''Jordan has taken on the greatest responsibility of all, and we are criticized far more than we deserve.''
 
'What Is Our Crime?'
In the Lebanon House restaurant, the Lebanese owner, Antoinette Salebah -who once boasted packed tables and a three-day wait for reservations - gestured to empty tables in the orange slant of the afternoon sun and seemed more impassioned.
''What is our crime?'' she asked. ''What is the bad thing we did? People are very resentful. I can remember times when people in the mosques and churches prayed for Americans, but now they curse them.''
Since the crisis erupted with Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2, Jordan has angered both the Bush Administration and the so-called moderate Arabs led by Egypt and Saudi Arabia by refusing to support the deployment of foreign forces in Saudi Arabia and by making it clear that its geography and economic problems preclude total enforcement of the international embargo on trade with Iraq.
On the highway leading east from Amman, 40 miles south of here, tanker trucks with red Kuwaiti plates rumble into Jordan carrying Iraqi oil, the main source of supply since Saudi Arabia cut off oil supplies in a display of pique at the positions adopted by King Hussein of Jordan in response to the strong pro-Iraqi sentiment of his predominantly Palestinian population.
 
Refugees Coming In
On the same highways, however, buses carrying Asian fugitives from occupied Kuwait head for Amman, too, carrying the refugees destined for the emergency airlift that uses Jordan as its principal staging point. And, at the same time, Jordanian officials maintain that promises of humanitarian and economic aid have not been fulfilled to help this kingdom of three million people cope with the crisis caused by the sanctions it says it is imposing on Baghdad.
Crown Prince Hassan said in New York recently that Jordan is enforcing the sanctions ''with complete loyalty.''
''Is it expected that Jordan commit economic hara-kiri?'' he said. ''Are we expected to commit economic suicide?''
Other countries in the region, including Egypt, Israel and Turkey, are also experiencing a drop in tourism because of the crisis, but the effect is particularly severe here, and the Jordanians feel singled out.
''If you look at the history of Jordan, you will find that our country has always stood for justice, dialogue and reason,'' said Ali Hawandeh, a legislator from the Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan's Parliament. ''This element is being overlooked these days.''
Because of the embargo on produce other than oil, he said, ''our exports have suffered, our industries are being closed, and our unemployment rate is going up. Our country is small and it simply cannot withstand it.''
 
Livelihoods in Jeopardy
In places like Jerash - one of the points on the tourism circuit that runs from the beaches of Aqaba to the Dead Sea to the ancient ruins of Petra -such sentiments find their echo among people who, like Mr. Smaaly and Mrs. Salebah, have suddenly found their livelihoods in jeopardy.
Overall, according to Finance Minister Basel Jardaneh, Jordan has lost about 750,000 tourists this year, mainly Western Europeans scared off by the crisis in the gulf and Jordan's intimate association with it. Lost revenues are estimated at $250 million.
Officials at the national air carrier, Royal Jordanian, said all tourist flights had been canceled and transit traffic was down 30 to 40 percent. ''It is a disaster,'' an official said.
In her restaurant, Mrs. Salebah said tour operators had canceled advance table reservations for 1,800 Italian tourists for October and November. At his prime spot before the archway that guards Jerash's Roman sites, Mr. Smaaly said: ''No one comes any more, and we depend on tourism.''
As the afternoon wore on, Mrs. Salebah, a widow who fled Lebanon 15 years ago to escape mayhem, first delivered a broadside. ''There are people here who have 12 kids. They can't even get them a bottle of milk. People come here and say: What did we do? Why is all this anger directed at us.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The gulf crisis has driven away foreign tourists from Jordan, leaving beaches like one in Aqaba deserted. (Agence France-Presse); map: Jordan, indicating Jerash (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KUWAIT (93%); LEBANON (92%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN; IRAQ; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); REFUGEES (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RELIGION (63%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ANTOINETTE SALEBAH (68%); IBRAHIM MUSTAFA SMAALY (68%); 



212 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Sadly, a Salvadoran Will Leave His Country

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, Oct. 6

 BODY:
For 15 years, Roberto braved the horrors of this country's civil strife. One by one, friends left or were kidnapped and killed. But he stayed and built his businesses.
But now he has given up. In August, he sold his Mercedes, rented his comfortable house and moved his wife and their three children to a Florida suburb. Now he alternates weeks between San Salvador and Miami and is planning to move to Spain as soon as a job there becomes available. 
''I can't accept the fact that if you're born a peasant here, you die a peasant and your children are going to be peasants,'' said Roberto, who asked that his full name not be used. ''There's no vision that kids of farmhands should be going to Harvard and running this country one day. There's no vision of a modern society.''
Roberto's decision to become a refugee, albeit a comfortable one, provides a vivid glimpse into the attitudes that fuel this country's civil war. Despite a decade of American efforts to remake El Salvador in its own image, this society remains strikingly feudal in outlook.
Over canapes served by hovering waiters at a party, a guest said she was convinced that God had created two distinct classes of people: the rich and people to serve them. She described herself as charitable for allowing the poor to work as her servants. ''It's the best you can do,'' she said.
The woman's outspokenness was unusual, but her attitude is shared by a large segment of the Salvadoran upper class.
The separation between classes is so rigid that even small expressions of kindness across the divide are viewed with suspicion. When an American, visiting an ice cream store, remarked that he was shopping for a birthday party for his maid's child, other store patrons immediately stopped talking and began staring at the American. Finally an astonished woman in the check-out line spoke out. ''You must be kidding,'' she said.
 
Pampering Is Unnecessary
''I don't mind being waited on any more than the next person,'' Roberto, who went to an Ivy League school and worked as a Wall Street banker, said in explaining his decision to raise his children abroad. ''I like having a maid. But I want my children to learn they can wash their own dishes. I don't want them to become typical, rich Salvadorans.''
The country's wealth is less tightly concentrated than 20 years ago, when a writer described the handful of Salvadorans who ran the country as ''the 14 families.'' But extreme differences of wealth still exist.
Shacks made of mud and scrap lumber line the steep ravines under the high walls that surround San Salvador's luxurious estates. While the wealthy pay $5 for a box of imported raisin bran, the poor have begun calling beans, a staple of their diet, ''rich people's food.'' While the wealthy invest in Miami, the poor can only dream of a full-time job.
Salvadoran society is not entirely static. A small group of civic-minded employers pay more than the minimum wage and provide myriad employee benefits. Political space has also opened. Leftist politicians allied with the guerrillas have returned from years of exile. Popular organizing no longer is tantamount to suicide. Repression is less pervasive and much less deadly. Political debate is broadening.
Those successes have served to highlight the failure to change many of the underlying attitudes. Roberto noted that the country enjoyed sustained growth in its gross national product from the 1960's through the end of the 1970's, but never invested heavily in education or health care. The attitude, he added, was that ''schools don't create jobs, hospitals don't create G.N.P.''
''We're still back in the Middle Ages,'' he said. ''We've got to begin to think about the country not just in terms of G.N.P., but also in terms of developing this society. That's just not happening. This society is very sick.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EL SALVADOR (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CHILDREN (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); FARM LABOR (76%); FAMILY (76%); TRENDS (72%); ICE CREAM (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); REFUGEES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



213 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2197 words

HEADLINE: What Did One Comic Say to the Other? Read On

 BODY:
Veterans of acclaimed one-man shows in New York, Jackie Mason and Calvin Trillin will be back on stage this week and next for fresh runs in new solo performances. On Thursday, Mr. Trillin, the author, raconteur, writer for The New Yorker and columnist for The Nation, will open Off Broadway in ''Calvin Trillin's Words, No Music'' at the American Place Theater on 46th Street. On Oct. 17 ''Jackie Mason: Brand New'' will open on Broadway at the Neil Simon (previews begin Tuesday). Having lived and learned during their earlier shows - Mr. Mason in ''The World According to Me'' in 1986 and Mr. Trillin in ''Uncle Sam'' in 1988 - the pair recently got together to talk about their new acts and what works and what doesn't out there alone in front of the footlights. Here are excerpts from their conversation. Trillin: So what are you doing this time that's different? Mason: Everything I do is different. You have fans who come to see you again. Usually you can't depend on new customers because the new ones are guys who didn't like you in the first place or they would have come to the first show. So you're playing to the same people. It has to be a whole new show. I do the newest situations - politics, economics. I talk about the contradictions and the ridiculousnesses in the way people behave, about luxury apartment buildings that have fantastic lobbies without apartments. The new politics up to and including crime in New York and oil and the Gulf situation. Like how you can't find a cop to help you in New York, but if Iraq threatened to bomb the filling stations you'd have the Army here in a second.
Trillin: I try to get really sexy subjects. My last show was about places, geography. So I was going to do this next show about . . . Mason: Arithmetic. Trillin: Exactly. Our minds work exactly the same way. This show was going to be about math. But math was my worst subject because I could never persuade the teacher that my answers were meant ironically. So I can't do math but I'm doing words, language. There will be politics, certainly some mentions of a few Presidents. There's something about free speech. Not too much about eating, except, of course, a discussion of duck tongues and bull foot soup. Probably some talk on teen speak - how, for instance, teenagers can get along for protracted periods on just the word like. And then some poetry, even harking back to my father's poems about pie when he kept a restaurant in Kansas City and had some poems on the menu.
Mason: Everybody asks me the source of my material. How do you get your ideas?
Trillin: I read the newspapers, but they're less valuable now. In my column I do a lot of political commentary, but this Administration is bad for that. In the last Administration we had James Watt and Alexander Haig - those guys were interesting in their own bizarre way. Now we can't even name the Cabinet. Also I'm in the embarrassing position of liking Mrs. Bush.
Mason: I've never known anyone not to like Mrs. Bush - except Mr. Bush. He's the only guy who's not that crazy about her. Every time she shows up, he's playing tennis. His main thing is running. If he's not running, he's on the boat.
Trillin: And a cigarette boat at that. Talk about a traitor to your class. He's an old WASP; he's supposed to be on a sailboat.
Mason: His boat is for Jewish people from the garment center.
Trillin: That's what happens when he tries to be a regular guy.
Mason: He's a swinger; he's an athlete. It's all part of the image that he's not getting any older. Every time you see him he's panting and passing away, but he's always trying to look healthier. He's got short pants, short jackets and tight suits and he's running and he looks like he's about to collapse.
Trillin: But all runners look like that. The only people who look worse than runners are people who work in health food stores.
Mason: In my new act I do a routine about jogging and health food stores. Whenever you go into a health food store they all look sick. Their shirts look bad. Their jackets look bad. Trillin: Are you going to be in sweats? Mason: I don't get involved in costumes, because clothes are an irrelevance. People don't care what you look like. The only person who cares is your manager or someone who is making a living off your career and who has to do something to be creative. Trillin: This jacket is my costume. Mason: That's not a costume. You paid a dollar and a quarter for that jacket. I paid $1,200 for the jacket I wear in the show. For that I could get seven chairs, two tables, a building in Philadelphia and a candy store for your mother. You're telling me I'm an idiot for paying $1,200 to look the same way you look.
Trillin: Where I got this, it was $4. In my first show I also talked a little about health food stores. I know you're committed not to use anything I had in my first show, but I'm not committed not to use anything you had in yours. Mason: You can use the whole thing. Trillin: On stage, can you see the audience at all?
Mason: I only see one row. What do you see? About the second or third?
Trillin: Yes, and I find in about the second or third row there's always one guy . . . Mason: Who's not clapping, no matter what. Trillin: Not laughing, no matter what. Mason: I know that guy; he comes to my shows, too. Trillin: I was doing the show and I looked at this guy. He had this awful expression on his face - not that he didn't like the material; he hated me personally. And you wonder: I don't think I know this guy, but I could have done something, late in the evening or something . . .
Mason: True. No matter how I'm tearing the house down, there's always this person sitting there. In my case it's two - I'm not going to lie to you.
Trillin: Sometimes I hope they're going to seat him in the dark. Then I think it's always the same guy wearing disguises. I try to look away from him. He's not going to laugh no matter what I do. He doesn't understand jokes. He just got off the boat. He doesn't even speak English. Why should I try to entertain him? I'll look at somebody else. There's a lady over there who's having a great time. I'll watch her. But I can't do it. My eyes go back to him every time.
Mason: I've heard this from a million performers. They like to pretend it doesn't disturb them, but the thing that makes you become a performer also makes you the most likely candidate to be disturbed. It's the insecurity that makes you become a performer. Talent is incidental. What you really need is someone hollering how much he loves you. You know what he thinks by the way he looks at you. This is what you have to find out. Subconsciously we basically believe him. Trillin: Otherwise we'd look away. Mason: Right. We keep asking ourselves, Is he right? He must know something I don't. Who needs him to remind me I stink in the first place?
Trillin: And the thing is, you can't defend humor. If the lady in the second row doesn't laugh, it isn't funny. You'd like to say, ''Madam, many more intelligent and interesting people than you are laughing very hard at that joke,'' but you can't. It's not funny. Well, if they don't laugh, I'll send them over to you. You've got plenty of room over there.
Mason: I have 800 seats. Not only that, but I have a two-hour show and it's hard to remember it all.
Trillin: My first show was an hour and a half, and one time I forgot a bunch of it. I was talking along and I said to myself, hey, I forgot a whole section of this show. So I thought, O.K. I'll stick it in here, what the hell. But then I thought, what if I've already said this? Well, if the people in the first couple of rows get puzzled looks - ''Hey, didn't this guy just say this?'' - I can stop. But what do I do then? The good thing is that you're not doing Shakespeare when the guy in the back row knows you're wrong. Here nobody knows what you wanted to say, so you can stick in something else. Mason: Were you always a performer? Trillin: It's more of a sideline. A lot of writers do it. We like to say we do it because Mark Twain did it. He always needed the cash; he was broke half the time. Mason: Do other writers resent it? Trillin: Some do. They try to be tolerant the way, say, members of the classics department would be tolerant of a tenured professor appearing as a male stripper.
Mason: I get a lot of complaints about my ethnic jokes. Some say it's an interesting study of ethnic life styles and traditions, but others say I perpetuate negative stereotypes.
Trillin: I'm not one of those bothered by that because you tell jokes on yourself basically. Mason: Well, I don't always. Trillin: True. There's some Italian and Puerto Rican stuff, but it sounds like fun to me.
Mason: I notice when you generalize about anything that's not ethnic people find it's funny whether it's negative or positive. And if it is ethnic no one complains when what you say is positive, but if it's not a compliment they say it's stereotyping. But then we live in a democratic society. People can accept jokes about themselves without falling apart.
Trillin: But if you were a WASP comedian - is there such a thing as a WASP comedian? Mason: Surely there are gentiles making a living. Trillin: I mean a high WASP, an Episcopalian who does a stand-up routine without moving his lips and he says things about Jews. Wouldn't that be offensive? Mason: If there's such a degree of anti-Semitism in this country that we think a gentile is automatically anti-Semitic, then we can't accept it as a joke. We accept it depending on who it comes from; if you believe in the spirit of the man, you don't think of him as someone who will attack you. It's only when there's an attitude of basic hate that you think any joke comes from hate. You'll notice if people like each other they don't get upset. When gentiles tell jokes in this country, nobody can believe it. Trillin: Is this anti-gentile humor? Mason: No. The only time you're never criticized about the taste of your comedy is when you're attacking gentiles. When people are really secure they're the majority. Nobody ever comes up and says you're picking on gentiles. Blacks pick on white gentiles, Jews pick on white gentiles, but gentiles don't get threatened. Jews get self-conscious right away because there's such a tradition of persecution and you always assume the persecution is going to start again. The whole thing becomes a problem of paranoia.
Trillin: You talk very quickly. I talk very slowly. Your show is two hours. If I did your show I'd only have to do half the jokes you do. I also do my show for only two weeks. But you have $1,200 jackets.
Mason: But I'm trying to appeal to people who come to shows in much greater numbers. I think your material depends on a higher level of intelligence. You have to be more erudite, more learned, more concerned and involved. In my show I try to be as simplistic as possible so everybody understands it. I don't want to be a mystery to anybody. I try to talk to the guy who never went to school, who understands English and nothing else. It's very obvious comedy that everybody experiences and can identify with. If a guy has to know what's going on to enjoy something in my show, I take it out.
Trillin: I ordinarily have three jokes that require intelligence to understand them, and I'd be glad to take them out for an 800-seat theater. Mason: You don't aim for a more intelligent audience? Trillin: I do the same kind of jokes in The Nation as I do on Carson.
Mason: I get the impression from reading your columns that the way you write takes more intelligence than the way you tell it on Carson.
Trillin: When you write, it's more complicated, but it's the same joke. I was once told if you ever get to Broadway, don't do de Tocqueville jokes.
Mason: But if your material isn't aimed at an elitist audience, why are you playing only in a smoker? Trillin: Because I'm not as funny as you are. Mason: But your reviews were brilliant. They were like a celebration of a genius of comedy. They loved the stuff, and I think I might be educating you into making a lot more money than you do. I deserve a commission.
Trillin: Well, I think you're right. I'll have to give up the writing. Do I have to play the clubs too? Mason: You never played in a nightclub? Trillin: I never had the courage. What's it like playing clubs compared to playing shows on Broadway?
Mason: It's one fifth as hard to get a laugh in a theater as it is in a club. In a theater you have an audience waiting to hear what you say; in a club you have one waiting for you to finish. The whole idea of doing a show in a nightclub is stupid in the first place because a nightclub is a place for a couple to get together and there's a whole ritual going on about how he's going to start this affair with her. He's not paying $300 just to watch a Jew talk for nothing. The reason he's spending all this money is that he's trying to attack this girl.The better I am the worse he's doing because if I'm really funny he can't get out of there. So basically I'm a pimp.
Trillin: You don't have a de Tocqueville line in your new show?
Mason: I took it out. I have a Noriega line.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Warming up for their one-man shows, Calvin Trillin and Jackie Mason trade insights. Insults? No, insights. Sample: ''If they don't laugh, I'll send them over to you.'' (Lori Grinker for The New York Times) (pg. 5); Calvin Trillin, left, and Jackie Mason-''I try to get sexy subjects. My last show was about geography.'' (Lori Grinker for The New York Times) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: HUMOR AND WIT WRITERS (89%); POETRY (89%); THEATER (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); GAS STATIONS (71%); POLITICS (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (64%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: TRILLIN, CALVIN; MASON, JACKIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



214 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: The Cure for the Deficit Isn't More Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Henry Kaufman's advice to raise taxes as a solution for the budget deficit is mindless and bureaucratic. (''No (Painless) Cure for the Budget Deficit,'' Sept. 23) On the contrary, taxes should be lowered. Congress, not the Federal Reserve, is constricting monetary stimulus. To eliminate our budget deficit and dependence on foreign financing, taxes must be lowered and major aspects of tax benefits associated with debt must be eliminated.
I agree with Mr. Kaufman that the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced-budget law is not an answer to the budget deficit. However, the Government has to lower its expenses somehow. This can be done by lawmakers rewarding corporations and individuals who save, not providing benefits to those who borrow. Here are some suggestions:
* Substantially reduce taxes on interest earned from savings.
* Establish a 50% maximum deduction for corporate debt.
* Eliminate other ''debt related benefits,'' excluding home and car ownership debt.
Within five years the country would realize a strong economic recovery.
In the last two decades, hundreds of billions of dollars have been made available for leveraged buyouts, mergers and acquisitions, real estate developments in weak markets and other irrelevant transactions that benefited only the Wall Street deal makers and a few corporate egos. The ordinary taxpayer has neither caused nor benefited from this madness. Yet Mr. Kaufman suggests that the American taxpayer should pay for it. It's insane.
 
RICHARD NYMARK
New York, Sept. 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET DEFICITS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); MERGERS (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (66%); 

PERSON: NYMARK, RICHARD HENRY KAUFMAN (92%); 



215 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
The Stock the Market Sneered At

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
To Wall Street, the Tandy Corporation has become the Rodney Dangerfield of the technology scene. The Radio Shack people? (The sniggers start.) Selling computers to giant Japanese companies? (Roars of laughter.) And yet, the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company quietly announced last week that it will be selling, under its own brand name, a new ''notebook'' computer made by Tandy. Matsushita already sells larger Tandy personal computer models in the United States under its Panasonic nameplate.
In fact, as Wall Street sneers, technology industry experts are taking a fresh look at Tandy. And many of them like what they see: the Model 1500 HD, Tandy's sleek new entry in the burgeoning notebook computer market; the Gridpad, a new ''clipboard'' computer that accepts handwritten characters; and, still in the wings, the THOR-CD, the first ''blank'' compact disk that might develop into the CD equivalent of blank audio tape. 
''Increasingly,'' said Richard A. Shaffer, the editor of Technologic Partners' Computer Letter in New York, ''Tandy exhibits all the characteristics that make the big Japanese companies such formidable competitors around the world: manufacturing muscle, vertical integration, broad distribution power and the ability to forge successful strategic alliances.''
The pattern traced by Tandy's stock price in the United States certainly would look familiar to the bear-mauled traders in Tokyo. As high as $55 a share in mid-1987, the stock has fallen more than 50 percent, despite steady stock purchases by the company itself. But at Friday's price of $25.875 a share, the stock is trading at about seven times its recent annual earnings - a ratio that would be seen as a misprint in Japan, where the typical computer company still trades at nearly 40 times earnings.
Lately, Tandy has attracted a few bargain-hunters. ''We started buying at $26 a share and have been buying on the way down,'' said Scott Black, the patient but picky president of Delphi Management in Boston, who buys no stock trading at more than 10 times earnings. He has bought more than 150,000 shares in the past few weeks, he said. ''They've got a powerhouse balance sheet, and even in a soft economy, I think their nominal revenues can grow 5 to 6 percent next year.''
That sounds puny beside the high double-digit rates that retailing analysts once expected from Radio Shack. But, like everyone, Radio Shack slowed down as it matured, and its computer line was never a world-beater. Tandy's early computers - the TRS-80 series and its popular Model 100 laptop - were eclipsed, and Radio Shack shoppers have not adopted the computer as a pet.
Tandy is trying to change that with its new 1000 RL model, featuring built-in software designed to make it the computer equivalent of the ''point and shoot'' camera. But critics say the machine may be too clunky for the upscale buyer and too expensive for the Radio Shack crowd. Besides, they argue, how can Tandy compete with the International Business Machines Corporation and Apple Computer Inc., which are also going after the home market?
Mr. Shaffer of the Computer Letter notes that the new Tandy home unit is easier to use and cheaper than the I.B.M. rival, and that Apple's new machines are not ready yet. Meanwhile, all the advertising hoopla attending the I.B.M. roll-out seems to be helping Tandy, with Tandy's sales particularly strong in the three I.B.M. test markets.
At any rate, there is more to Tandy these days than Radio Shack's computer sales. While trying to spruce up the somewhat dowdy image of its stores - now promoted as ''America's Technology Stores'' -Tandy has also started diversifying to reduce its reliance on Radio Shack.
It has added name-brand electronics outlets, including the Video Concept and McDuff stores. It has expanded into new markets by buying Grid Systems, a portable-computer specialist serving business and government customers, and Victor Technologies, a Swedish computer company with a solid European base. And it is expanding sales of unbranded computer equipment to vendors like Matsushita and the Digital Equipment Corporation.
The results, after some early stumbling, are beginning to show up on Tandy's bottom line. While Radio Shack sales in the 1990 fiscal year, which ended June 30, were about 2 percent lower than in the prior year, sales through all other outlets jumped more than 30 percent. Those sales accounted for about 35 percent of Tandy's total sales in fiscal 1990, up from 28 percent in the prior fiscal year and 22 percent in fiscal 1988.
To be sure, the profits are lower on products sold outside the Radio Shack environment, where the legendary gross margins have been around 50 percent. But the overhead is lower, too, and Tandy's growth in sales at its established name-brand stores compares favorably with other electronics retailers, noted Mr. Shaffer.
Even when measured as a computer vendor, Tandy looks better, thanks in part to its acquisition strategy; it sold more than a half-million computers in the 1990 fiscal year, up 26 percent over the prior fiscal year.
Of course, computer vendors, as well as electronics retailers, are likely to suffer in a recession. ''It's true that you've got to be a hardy soul to be making buys in computer stocks these days,'' said Mr. Shaffer. ''But look across the valley and notice what happens to capital goods spending a few months after a recession - it surges. That's when institutions will return to the technology stocks, and they will rush first to the big companies with lots of shares outstanding.''
Not even Tandy's trip through the threatened recession worries Mr. Black of Delphi Management. ''Look, of more than 2,900 items in the Radio Shack inventory, about 2,000 of them sell for less than $10 a unit. Sure, I wouldn't want to be Neiman Marcus this Christmas. But I wouldn't mind being Radio Shack.''

GRAPHIC: Graph: Tandy's stock price since Sept. 1987-Oct. 5, 1990 (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (94%); 6752 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (85%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: RADIOSHACK CORP (94%); PANASONIC CORP (85%); TECHNOLOGIC PARTNERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TANDY CORP

SUBJECT: STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS (CORPORATE) PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 



216 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Strategies for a Bear Market

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
With threats of recession looming and bears leaving pawprints on Wall Street, managers of mutual funds are maneuvering through treacherous territory. How are they coping? Many are buying again. To be sure, cash reserves at stock funds remain larger than usual. In August, the most recent period studied, cash made up 11.9 percent of the funds' portfolios, according to the Investment Company Institute. There have been months recently when cash holdings were larger, but that August increase was the largest one-month rise since October 1987.
But one thing seems clear from an informal survey of top-flight fund managers: Many are scouting bargains and their slow move from the sidelines, with bags of cash in hand, could help invigorate a market looking for any bit of good news. Here's a look at the strategies of some managers who have been among the top 25 performers in the last 10 years and who have worked through markets good and bad. 
Bob Chesek, who manages the $700 million Phoenix Growth Fund in Hartford, Conn., said his cash levels are below 10 percent today, from 20 percent a couple of weeks ago. ''Most stocks are down to levels that make them great values,'' he said. ''Some growth stocks represent good value, even in a weak economy.'' Favorites include I.B.M. and Pepsico. Yet he remains cautious, expecting that the economy will grow slowly for ''a long time,'' as individuals and corporations pay off debt.
Melville Strauss, who manages the $200 million WPG Tudor Fund, is holding 40 percent of his fund in cash, its highest level since the 1973-74 market rout. But not for long. ''I'm buying stocks every day now,'' he said. He is betting heavily on oil service stocks, which make up more than 10 percent of the fund's portfolio. Two favorites: Offshore Logistics Inc. and Global Marine Inc.
The best bargains around, according to Shelby M.C. Davis, who manages the $300 million New York Venture Fund, are quality growth stocks. Although he is sitting on 8 percent cash - double his usual position - he believes ''this is a time to upgrade quality.'' Among his recent purchases is AIG, the big insurance company, and Golden West Financial, the California saving-and-loan association whose ''stock is beaten down to half price and has enormous opportunity to grow as the industry gravitates into stronger hands,'' he said.
Ken Heebner, who manages the $575 million New England Growth Fund, is hot on growth stocks, too. ''Companies with high growth prospects are selling at discounts to the market, and that's where the opportunities are,'' he said. Some favorites: SciMed Life Sciences, a medical device manufacturer; Merry-Go-Round Enterprises, a national retailer, and Dillard Department Stores, a low-cost retailer in the Southwest.
Another bargain hunter, Robert Lange, who co-manages the $670 million Lindner Fund, said ''we're buying stocks every day,'' but refused to name names. He said that pace of buying would probably pick up ''the lower the market goes.''
Some managers are siphoning off cash more slowly. James Craig, who manages the $1 billion Janus Fund, is holding 75 percent of the fund's assets in cash against a usual reserve of about 10 or 15 percent. The huge stash ''will make me aggressive when the time is right and when everyone else is hiding under their desks,'' he said.
For now, he is waiting for earnings reports to stop depressing stock prices and he believes the next several weeks, when third-quarter reports are released, will be critical. Meanwhile, he said he buys when he spots companies where ''earnings will be solid over the next year or two, and stock prices have dropped so price-earnings ratios have compressed.'' Two buys: Smith Food and Drug, a Salt Lake City-based grocery chain, and W.R. Berkley, a Greenwich, Conn.-based property and casualty insurance company.
Michael Price, who manages the $2.6 billion Mutual Shares, said he is ''finding more and more opportunities as prices fall.'' More than 25 percent of the fund is in cash. Among Mr. Price's recent buys: Time Warner and I.T.T.
Some managers argue that it is still too early to move back into the market. Harry Hutzler, who manages the $600 million AIM Weingarten Fund, usually keeps his fund fully invested but now its cash cushion is 10 percent. ''There's always the possibility that cheap stocks get cheaper,'' he said. ''While most of the damage has been done, it's better to be cautious.''
Perhaps an even bigger bear is Foster Friess, who manages the $250 million Brandywine Fund. He usually keeps 10 percent of his fund in cash, but he has raised that to a staggering 71 percent, a level he has approached only twice before, during the oil crises in the 1970's. And he intends to stay on the sidelines. ''There are so many imponderables - the Mideast crisis, the budget process and the banking environment -that could turn pretty nasty,'' he said.
 
IN MONEY MARKETS, SIZE MATTERS
Large mutual funds should be cheaper to run because they spread expenses over a bigger base, right? Well, not always, as mixed results among stock and bond funds show. But when it comes to money-market funds, the theory holds. In that group, lower expenses translate into higher yields.
The reasons: Larger money-market funds usually have lower management fees because fees are scaled back as fund size increases. They can get better returns by buying enormous chunks of commercial paper and certificates of deposit for their portfolios, and bigger size gives them economies of scale in day-to-day operating expenses. And the market for money funds is very efficient: investors buy the higher-yielding funds and that allows these funds to grow even larger -and to produce higher yields.
When it comes to money funds, ''size matters,'' said Norman G. Fosback, editor of Income and Safety, an investment newsletter based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

GRAPHIC: Graph: the percentage of cash and short-term investments in stock funds, Jan.-August, 1990 (Source: Investment Company Institute); chart: average 30-day yields, for monthly monetary funds, Source: Income & Safety)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RIGN (SWX) (64%); RIG (NYSE) (64%); BRS (NYSE) (64%); PEP (NYSE) (54%); WFC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (64%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (64%); NAICS481219 OTHER NONSCHEDULED AIR TRANSPORTATION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (64%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (64%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NORTHEAST USA (55%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: TRANSOCEAN LTD (64%); BRISTOW GROUP INC (64%); PEPSICO INC (54%); WELLS FARGO & CO (51%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (50%); MEDICAL DEVICES (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE TUDOR FUND (87%); 



217 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Uruguay: Unlikely Capital For Antique-Car Sales

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN

DATELINE: MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay

 BODY:
Parked in the open door of a workshop on a nondescript Montevideo side street, the low-slung pale yellow car created its own Art Deco time warp. Its cockpit-style dashboard, interior radiator, retractable headlights and front-wheel traction - decades ahead of their time - make Errett Lobban Cord's dream machine as alive today as it was when it drove the Indiana auto maker into bankruptcy after the 1937 model.
''We are creating beauties out of junk,'' said Eduardo Ponce de Leon, vice-president and sales manager of Coronal S.A., an automobile restoration company that aspires to gain control of the world market in restored Cords over the next 10 years.
Carefully lifting the hood of a 1936 sedan, now priced at $200,000, Mr. Ponce de Leon points to its glistening airplane engine, faithfully rebuilt with original Cord parts - down to the sparkplug wires - from the quarter-million dollars' worth of original components imported from supply houses in the United States. ''This car is 55 years old; it runs 110 miles an hour,'' he said with awe, but is ''too advanced for its market.'' 
Before a car goes out to a buyer in the United States, Japan, or Europe, a small brass plate will be installed under the hood saying the car comes from the ''collection of Prince Rodrigo D'Arenberg,'' who is president of Coronal and heir to the title of a European duchy.
There are two reasons why Uruguay has long been known as an antique-cars center. Early in the century, its prosperous wool and beef producers were quick to import cars from Europe and the United States; and the downward spiral of its economy since the 50's has forced consumers to take care of their cars and try to drive them forever.
Mr. Ponce de Leon and Mr. D'Arenberg, whose parents moved to Uruguay after World War II, are buying unrestored cars from wherever they can, taking advantage of Uruguay's low wages and the mechanical abilities of its workers.
''The skills here are good,'' Mr. Ponce de Leon said, ''because cars that are kept running a long time have to be repaired a lot.'' When you see an old Ford in the streets, it is not in a sense an antique, he said, ''because it's been actually running for 50 years.''
He said the best mechanical and body workers earn about $700 a month, making the cost of a Cord restoration here about $40,000 compared with about $150,000 in the United States. The shop, with 25 employees, is now restoring 20 Cords the partners bought as little more than piles of rust when they set up business two years ago on $1 million in capital from Mr. D'Arenberg.
Although specializing in Cords, the company also does individual restorations of other makes and intends, eventually, to move to other cars in volume.
In a warehouse across the street, where the remains of about 40 old cars are stacked, are 11Chryslers made in 1929; two of them, which have rumble seats and were found on a farm, may bring as much as $350,000 when their restorations are finished, Mr. Ponce de Leon said.
The lone 1929 Cadillac - the ''Al Capone-type'' - in the warehouse is thought to be worth about $190,000 once restored.
One special order, almost completed, sits in a corner of the two-story factory: a 1931 Ford coupe, with a gleaming forest-green body, black fenders, yellow spoke wheels, a wood floor and leather upholstery. A brass plate had been attached near the motor saying the car has been restored for Hubert Guerrand Hermes, the French fashion accessory maker. Mr. Hermes will also receive an album of color photographs of the steps in the restoration. ''He can see,'' Mr. Ponce de Leon said, ''that it wasn't a cosmetic job, but a 100 percent restoration.''
The price? ''Thirty thousand dollars, but I think we'd charge more for the next one,'' he said.
If the Ford breaks down or is in an accident, the company will send someone to France to fix it, Mr. Ponce de Leon said, and if the damage is extensive it will be brought back here for repair.
The Uruguayan company grew out of the partners' longtime interest in classic cars, but from different perspectives. Mr. Ponce de Leon, along with other business interests, had been buying unrestored old cars for 15 or 20 years. They now comprise much of the stock in the warehouse across the street.
Mr. D'Arenberg was a collector. Alfredo ''Cacho'' Penza, a former bank employee who runs the technical side of the business, had worked with Mr. D'Arenberg for years restoring cars as a hobby.
''He's a Rembrandt,'' Mr. D'Arenberg said of Mr. Penza. ''If he leaves I close the plant.''
When the partners decided that Cords would be their first big undertaking, Mr. Penza went to the United States and spent time with auto restoration specialists.
He and Mr. Ponce de Leon went on a parts-buying binge. They learned that several dealers in the United States stocked original Cord parts. One, Glenn Pray, of Tulsa, Okla., who had also built Cord replicas, became what Mr. Ponce de Leon calls ''my adviser - for anything I'm unsure about I call him.'' They've gone 9 or 10 times to Wellington, Kan. - ''3,000 people, two coffee shops and nothing at night,'' in his words - to buy parts from another dealer, Stan Gilliland. And the trips to the United States produced original Cord blueprints, which now hang on a wall of the factory.
In addition to making 2,030 Cords, the one-time manufacturer in Auburn, Ind., produced 700 more-expensive Duesenbergs. The Duesenbergs, which sold originally for about $20,000, today bring $2 million to $3 million restored. Cords originally sold for $3,500, and the 451 restored in the world are said to be worth $150,000 to $200,000 each.
Coronal has now delivered two restored Cords to buyers in Switzerland and Italy, and has sold an additional six: three in the United States, two in Japan, and one in Australia.
Would-be buyers usually learn of the Coronal offerings through advertisements in Hemmings Motor News, an international antique-car magazine. Then they are likely to send a telex or fax message requesting the engine and body numbers to confirm that these are original cars, not replicas. They follow up with a letter of credit for upward of $200,000 and ask to see a finished model here or abroad.
Mr. Ponce de Leon foresees one problem: ''The good men in car restoration in Uruguay are mostly old,'' well into their 70's. This manifests itself in repairing frames for cars made before 1930, which he says were wooden frames: ''You can teach bodywork to the young - but only the old can do good woodwork.''
 
A HAVEN FOR HISTORIC WHEELS
 
MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay
Old cars are so much a part of the landscape here that the Government declares them ''historic patrimony.''
That means a permit from the Commission on Historic Patrimony is required to ship abroad any car manufactured before 1940, but permission is generally not difficult to obtain, according to Alvaro Casal Tatlock, the curator of the antique-car museum here.
''One may have to prove that there are still others in the country of the same model,'' he said. ''But in the case of the 1928-31 Model A Fords, for example, there are so many that there's no problem.''
Another consideration in granting export permission is whether the car in question ever belonged to a leading figure of Uruguay, such as a president.
Mr. Casal estimates that Uruguay exports 100 to 150 old cars a year, restored or unrestored.
Most of the old cars here are not in museums or carefully protected, to be brought out only on Sundays, but are still running on a daily basis. Mr. Casal drives around town in a 1946 Citroen.
''Many people think it is a shame to lose these old cars,'' he said. ''I would like to see them stay, too, but I believe in the right of property. After all, after World War II, the Americans bought a lot of old British cars in England; now the Britons are buying them back. It's world commerce.'' Mr. Casal says that one thing that has made Uruguay a good source of old cars is that such a wide variety of automobiles were imported during the first half of the century. They came from most of the American makers as well as most European manufacturers, but he says there were relatively few of the most expensive brands - no Duesenbergs, for example.
Even in Uruguay's wealthier days, the duty and transport made prices high in relation to income, so the cars were kept running a long time.
''This climate is relatively benign,'' he said. ''The majority of cars die because of corrosion, not mechanical problems, and there's not much of a problem from rain, snow or salt here.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1931 Ford coupe; A Cord, originally made in Indiana, being restored in a Montevideo workshop; (Eduardo Escudero for The New York Times); Kept in daily use, not in a museum: a 1939 Plymouth. (Milton Cea)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: URUGUAY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (93%); 

CITY: MONTEVIDEO, URUGUAY (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORONAL SA

GEOGRAPHIC: ;URUGUAY

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ANTIQUES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (78%); SEDANS (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); WORLD WAR II (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY PONCE DE LEON (92%); RODRIGO D'ARENBERG (84%); ALFREDO ''CACHO'' PENZA (58%); 



218 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: All About/The Spice Business;
Ancient Industry Catches Up With the Microwave Generation

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
As 1992 nears and Americans prepare to celebrate 500 years since Columbus's voyage, they should prepare to pay tribute to spices. When he bumped into America, after all, Columbus was on a mission for the King and Queen of Spain to locate a new and speedier route to a place called the Spice Islands, now part of Indonesia.
In the 15th century, any country that dominated the market in spices from the Far East - the equivalent of controlling massive oil reserves today - was rich.
Today, the effect of spices on the balance of trade is inconsequential, at least in the United States, and competition in the spice market is between companies, not countries.
But the fortunes in spices are still substantial. Their use has more than doubled in the last 20 years, to 762.1 billion pounds in 1989. Last year, Americans spent an estimated $2 billion on dried herbs and spices for cooking, according to the American Spice Trade Association in New York. 
While Europeans 500 years ago needed spices to mask the taste and aroma of food that was often putrid, Americans are now using spices to add zest to dishes that are underseasoned, having little or no salt. The increased interest in highly seasoned ethnic cuisines like Cajun, Mexican, Indian and Chinese has also boosted demand.
To further pump up usage, manufacturers are coming out with new varieties of blended spices, even some special concoctions for microwave cooking. Some are also trying to tap the fastest-growing segment of the market, food processors.
 
A Rich History
Pepper Price Was Like the Dow
In the trade, spices include all the plant material used as seasonings in dried or shelf-stable form. That includes the spices derived from tropical trees and plants like black pepper, cinnamon, cloves, turmeric, ginger, nutmeg, cardamom and allspice, as well as dehydrated onion and garlic, and capsicums like dried chilies and paprika.
Fresh herbs like parsley and dill are not considered part of the industry. And while table salt is not included, seasoned salts are, as are oleoresins, like oil of clove, which are extracted from spices.
Historically, the quest for rare tropical spices, not the culinary herbs gathered from nearby hillsides, led to the race for the most efficient trade routes. Cutting a few months from a two-year voyage or reducing the likelihood of shipwreck could give a spice merchant an advantage, and at various times, Venice, Portugal and the Netherlands all reaped fortunes from trading in spices.
In early times, black pepper was the most valued spice, and at one point, accounted for 25 percent of the world's trade. When Alaric, the Visigoth, first arrived at the walls of Rome in 408 A.D., he demanded not only gold and silver as tribute but 3,000 pounds of precious pepper. In Antwerp, Belgium, by the mid-1500's, the price of pepper had become the Dow Jones of the day.
 
American Retailers
Processed Foods Cut Into Sales
 This country's biggest spice manufacturers are also the oldest. McCormick, Schilling and Durkee brands date back to the late 19th century. McCormick & Company, the nation's largest spice maker, bought Schilling in 1947 and has since marketed the McCormick brand east of the Mississippi and Schilling to the west. The R.T. French Company bought Durkee Famous Foods of Cleveland in 1985 and today, its Durkee-French division is the No. 2 producer.
Manufacturers are secretive about their sales, making it difficult to estimate their share of the market. Besides McCormick and Durkee-French, the other major spice marketers include Spice Islands, Lawry's, and such supermarket chains as Kroger, Safeway and Winn-Dixie, which are believed to control 17 percent of the market.
While the overall demand for spices is growing steadily, the increased use of prepared and packaged foods at home has caused retail sales to decline. ''Until about 10 years ago, 60 percent of sales were retail,'' said Marshall Neale of the trade association. Now, they account for only about 40 percent, or roughly 305 billion pounds, worth an estimated $1 billion in sales.
''The consumer spice category is flat because people are doing less cooking,'' said Mark Peters, director of marketing for Spice Islands in San Francisco. ''Where there is any interest, it's in the exotic spices like cardamom because the cooking that is being done tends to be more sophisticated.''
To compensate for the drop, many spice manufacturers are looking for growth from the wholesale market - the food processors and food services that last year spent about $1 billion on spices.
With retail sales of about $30 million and 115 items in its product line, Spice Islands is one of the most recent entrants into food services, taking the jump about three months ago. It faces its retail rivals - McCormick and Durkee-French - as well as Ryckoff/Sexton, one of the biggest suppliers to food services, its specialty. The attraction: McDonald's, for instance, uses 10 tons of sesame seeds a day - about 25 percent of what is imported.
Vernon Sankey, the chairman of Reckitt & Colman Inc., which owns Durkee-French, has also mounted a campaign to build its food services business. Last year, the company bought the part of the Durkee enterprise from Hanson Industries - Durkee Industrial Foods, which serves food vendors - not included in its 1985 deal. The new division is pinning its hopes on a new product for food vendors, called Flavor-Flo, a seasoning in a liquid base that promises more consistency in mixing and more intensity in taste.
McCormick and Durkee also count food processors among their customers and expect bigger volumes from this business. A dash of chili powder or coriander can turn a plain product into a crowd-pleaser.
''Think about all those prepared salad dressings, spaghetti and barbecue sauces,'' said Mr. Neale of the association. ''They all need spices, and manufacturers are using the fact that they're spicy as a selling device. This would never have happened 30 years ago.''
 
Rejuvenating Interest
Ethnic Blends and Salt Substitutes
 In the retail segment, spice makers are trying to stoke lethargic sales by making their products easier to use. McCormick-Schilling has come out with some spices in small, one-ounce-sized jars, half the size of conventional packages. Although the company was targeting smaller households, the new product may have broader appeal: many spices lose their intensity long before they can be used.
Manufacturers have also come out with a bevy of spice blends - convenient, pre-mixed combinations of seasonings. Of course, curry powder has been around for centuries, first concocted as a way for the British Raj to replicate Indian dishes easily. Chili powder, apple pie spice, poultry seasoning and crab boil are among the other popular blends.
More recently, an outpouring of seasoned salts, lemon-pepper mixtures, Italian seasonings, Cajun spices and barbecue seasonings have hit the shelves. ''People are intimidated by spices; they don't know how to use them,'' said Mr. Sankey of Reckitt & Colman. ''They understand the blends because the names suggest the use.''
For consumers who can't be bothered measuring their spices, much less mixing them, many companies are marketing foil packages with enough seasonings for portions of sloppy joes or taco sauce. McCormick-Schilling has introduced Bag-N-Season for microwave cooking, and Durkee-French is about to unveil a similar product.
Health concerns also account for a proliferation of blends. ''Once you reduce or eliminate the salt you have to replace it with something,'' said Tom Burns, president of the American Spice Trade Association.
Alberto-Culver's Mrs. Dash is the leader among the salt-substitute herb blends. Spice Islands has just introduced a trio of salt-substitute blends. McCormick-Schilling has come out with the salt-free Parsley Patch line. Durkee-French has several salt-free blends and Lawry's, which made its name in seasoned salt, has added a salt-free seasoning blend to its line.
 
STILL TRADING WITH THE TROPICS
Many spices indigenous to the Far East are now cultivated in the Western Hemisphere, which originally was a source for only allspice, vanilla and the capsicums. But with few exceptions, virtually all aromatic spices used in the United States are still imported from the tropics in the East, some directly by companies and others through brokers.
''I suppose there are some that could be grown here, like coriander seed,'' said Tom Burns, president of the American Spice Trade Association, ''but it doesn't make sense economically.'' Canada supplies mustard seed, a cheap spice. Herbs native to temperate regions are grown domestically, mainly in California.
While volatile political situations are a potential threat to the international spice trade, the weather is a bigger peril, according to Mark Peters of Spice Islands, a leading manufacturer in the United States. ''This year there will be a very short crop of arrowroot from St. Vincent's so the price will be sky-high,'' he said.
Drought conditions in many producing countries led to shortages in 1988 - the only year in decades when consumption of spices dropped in this country. Mainly because of the decline in imports, which account for two-thirds of the spices used in the United States, consumption fell in 1988 to 640.8 billion pounds, from 685.6 billion pounds the previous year.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the spice business gave incorrect consumption totals. Figures should have been in millions of pounds, not in billions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (92%); SPAIN (90%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (70%); NETHERLANDS (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (50%); DOW JONES & CO INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; SPICES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) MARKET SEGMENTATION (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (60%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE



219 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: A Soviet Bank Takes Up Capitalism

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
From its base in the heart of London's financial district, a Soviet-owned bank that has never had to worry much about making money is trying to turn itself into a profitable institution by helping the Soviet Union become a capitalist country.
Moscow Narodny Bank Ltd. has been striving to become an investment bank that plays a leading role in getting Western companies to invest in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
In the last two years, it has helped to arrange deals involving more than $1 billion of Western money for projects in the Soviet Union. Those involving American companies include an Estee Lauder cosmetics shop in Moscow and the modernization and expansion of polyethylene plants whose output will be sold in the West by Union Carbide.
Other projects include a furniture factory in Leningrad involving Finnish companies and banks; a hotel at Sheremetyevo 2 Airport in Moscow involving French and Belgian companies and banks and Aeroflot, the Soviet airline, and a joint venture with a British company to make commercial vans. 
Moscow Narodny has been recruiting experts in areas like project finance, joint ventures and countertrade from such Western banks as American Express Bank, Manufacturers Hanover, Amro Bank of the Netherlands and Austria's Creditanstalt.
''The purpose of my being recruited from American Express Bank was to enable Moscow Narodny to take the lead on deals and by doing so earn higher fees on transactions,'' said Malcolm Magee-Brown, an Englishman who heads the 12-person project-finance team.
Previously, Western investment banks like Morgan Grenfell & Company, the British merchant bank with whom Moscow Narodny has long worked, had taken the lead in structuring deals. Moscow Narodny's main contributions were its important contacts in the Soviet Union and its considerable knowledge of the Byzantine Soviet system.
''We know the system and we even know the psychology of the people on the Soviet end. This is our biggest asset,'' said Alexander S. Maslov, the Soviet banker who has been chairman of Moscow Narodny since 1987.
Mr. Maslov, a 54-year-old chain smoker, joked that he personally does not feel like a capitalist because his Soviet-scale salary does not enable him to accumulate capital - especially with the high cost of living in London. But Mr. Maslov is willing to pay the capitalist wages needed to attract Western talent - although a Briton who had been the bank's general manager for two years left earlier this year.
Moscow Narodny traces its origins to 1915, when Russia's first cooperative bank established a London agency. It was incorporated as a British bank in 1919, two years after the Russian Revolution, to help finance trade between the Soviet Union and Britain. While it has also helped the Soviet Union with foreign exchange, trade finance remained its primary mission until a few years ago.
For the Soviet Union, Moscow Narodny is mainly trying to obtain Western investment in projects that produce goods that can be exported, can replace imports or which enable the country to exploit more profitably its vast natural resources by processing them itself. Current areas of concentration include oil, gas, forest products and telecommunications.
More pointedly, Moscow Narodny has been trying with some success in putting together deals that depend on little or no government financial support.
The bank has no choice. The Soviet Union's economic problems have limited its ability to provide loans or financial guarantees for trade deals and commercial ventures. Western executives have also grown jittery about the Soviet Union's credit-worthiness. Although the Soviet Union had a long history of paying its bills promptly,many Western companies have had trouble getting paid in the last year or so.
Moscow Narodny's main shareholders are Gosbank (the State Bank of the Soviet Union), which is the country's central bank and which was, until recently, its main commercial bank, and Vneshekonombank (the Bank for Foreign Economic Affairs), which has overseen and often financially guaranteed the Soviet Union's commercial dealings with the outside world.
But with upheaval sweeping the Soviet Union, the importance of the bank's Moscow connections is rapidly diminishing. The authority for striking deals is increasingly being transferred to the Soviet republics and the enterprises themselves.
Moscow Narodny Bank also aspires to play a big role in helping the fledgling democracies of Eastern Europe to attract Western investment. But experts at Western investment banks and companies question whether these countries, after so many decades under the Soviet Union's heel, will be so eager to do business with Moscow Narodny. Why, they ask, would Eastern Europeans turn to a Soviet-owned investment bank to attract Western funds?
Moscow Narodny executives say with their extensive network of contacts, they should be better able than anyone to keep on top of the changes in the Soviet Union. The breakdown of centralized authority, they say, may even work to their benefit, with Western companies turning to Moscow Narodny for help in finding those with the authority to strike a deal.
So far, Moscow Narodny has encountered no hostility in Eastern Europe, its executives add. Mr. Maslov also noted that the bank holds about $450 million in sovereign debt from Eastern Europe, including East Germany, and is interested in swapping some of it for equity stakes in state businesses that are turning into investor-owned enterprises.
The changes at Moscow Narodny reflect those in the Soviet Union in recent years. During the Brezhnev years, the bank stagnated. ''Profitability was not a matter of considerable concern to our shareholders,'' said William L. Newman, an English assistant general manager who joined the bank in 1968.
Beginning about five years ago, when Mikhail S. Gorbachev came to power, that began to change. The bank's board of directors was replaced with a relatively young, talented crew of Soviet bankers, who typically serve about three years before returning home.
All seven members of the current board came from the Bank for Foreign Economic Affairs, where Mr. Maslov was previously deputy chairman, and will probably go back.
It was under Mr. Maslov that the bank adopted its current strategy.
Last year, the bank's income before taxes, bad-debt provisions and transfers to inner reserves, totaled 21.5 million (about $34.6 million) up from 15.4 million ($27.9 million) the previous year. Fee income, which the bank is eager to increase, accounted for 37.5 percent of earnings. But provisions set aside for shakey or nonperforming sovereign loans to Eastern Europe reduced earnings to 290,000 ($466,900). The bank also has about $1.61 billion in sovereign loans to the Soviet Union, Mr. Maslov said.
Moscow Narodny's limited ability to lend or invest in deals could undermine its competitiveness in the Soviet market, Western bankers say. Morgan Grenfell and leading German, Italian and French banks have been the most active in the Soviet Union. But many Western banks are expected to enter the fray, increasing competition.
Mr. Maslov said he is not worried. He sees Western banks as potential allies that will need Moscow Narodny's contacts in the Soviet Union and knowledge of its complexities.
Besides Morgan Grenfell, Moscow Narodny has long had relationships with the First National Bank of Chicago, the Bank of Scotland and Postipannki, one of the largest Finnish banks. Although there have been no formal talks, Moscow Narodny executives are thinking about teaming up with Western banks or accounting firms to help the Soviet Union turn state-owned enterprises into investor-owned companies.
President Gorbachev has given those favoring a short transition to the market and advocates of a more conservative approach until mid-October to fashion a compromise. In the meantime, many negotiations over ventures involving Western investors have been put on hold.
Mr. Maslov said he is optimistic about the Soviet Union's future. ''You can't be pessimistic, with such a huge potential in such a huge country.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexander Maslov, chairman of Moscow Narodny Bank. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); EL (NYSE) (57%); AFLT (RTS) (56%); STAN (LSE) (55%); 2888 (HKSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); NETHERLANDS (57%); FINLAND (57%); AUSTRIA (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); MOSCOW NARODNY BANK LTD (85%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (57%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (56%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOSCOW NARODNY BANK LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FINANCES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (73%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (69%); COSMETICS (69%); FURNITURE MFG (69%); RESIN MFG (69%); POLYETHYLENE (54%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; MASLOV, ALEXANDER ESTEE LAUDER (55%); 



220 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Bear Market: Gentle Ben Or Real Grisly?

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
Just as the world has accepted the fact of a bear market, Wall Street is facing a new puzzle: What kind of bear is it?
Most analysts think this market is being driven by a ''cyclical'' bear, one that will hang around for less than a year and will pull stock prices down by another 10 percent or so. But what if this is the dreaded ''secular'' bear, one that will last more than a year and will drag prices down another 20 percent before it finally lets go? 
''That is the critical question,'' said Byron Wien, the portfolio strategist for Morgan Stanley & Company. ''The first thing I do, at every meeting I go to, is to ask the people where they stand on this issue.'' So far, Mr. Wien himself stands on the side of the cyclical bear, and he has a lot of company - perhaps because it is a far less scary place to stand these days.
The market made some soothing gestures of its own last week. Despite the traumatic collapse of the Federal budget pact late Thursday night, the Dow Jones industrial average closed a turbulent week at 2,510.40, up 57.90 points for the week.
But that wimpish rally won't be enough to cure the unease that will develop this week if the budget impasse is not resolved. Progress on the deficit front was one reason Mr. Wien had concluded that this bear is of the gentler, briefer variety.
''My view assumes that the safety nets will work,'' he explained on Friday. ''One of the safety nets is Congress. There was a belief that Congress would see that we have problems and would pass a budget compromise bill - and it did not.''
The reason that is so worrisome, of course, is because of the link in the market's mind between the size of the deficit and the level of interest rates. Lower rates could cushion the recession haunting Wall Street - but the Federal Reserve's hands are tied. With higher rates abroad and a weak dollar, it cannot act to lower rates without making it hard to attract the foreign capital Washington needs to finance its deficits. ''The Fed can act independently,'' Mr. Wien said, ''but it can't act unilaterally.''
The Fed's limitations were highlighted last week, as the dollar hit a new low against the German mark. The likely balance between the dollar and the British pound will be clearer this week, as the markets adjust to Britain's announcement that it is ready to join the European monetary system.
Meanwhile, the Tokyo market had a bear-market rally of its own. [World Markets, page 15.] And Tokyo may offer a clue to where the American market is heading. Justin Mamis, a quantitative analyst for Gordon Capital in New York, suspects that the Nikkei Dow ''is one major swing ahead of the United States bear market.'' It is a scary comparison: On its first plunge, the Nikkei fell to its early 1989 level before bouncing up between April and July; since pivoting downward again in August, it has fallen to its 1987 post-crash lows. ''Thus,'' said Mr. Mamis, ''a comparison with the Nikkei votes for a deep second leg down into next spring.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Dow Jones industrials average, Sept. 28-Oct. 5, 1990; value of the British pound in U.S. dollars, Sept. 10-Oct. 5, 1990; Nikkei indiex of 225 stocks on the Tokyo stock exchange, Jan. 1-Oct. 5, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (83%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CURRENCIES (84%); US DOLLAR (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); BRITISH POUND (60%); GERMAN MARK (60%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B BYRON WIEN (86%); JUSTIN MAMIS (58%); 



221 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY/September 30-October 5

BYLINE: By SALLIE HOFMEISTER

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Bitterness and Bravura as Washington Tries for a Budget
 
The House of Representatives went ahead and made President Bush's day early Friday. Defying the President's heavy-handed lobbying - and taunts - the House, led by an unlikely coalition of conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats, rejected by a 254-to-179 vote a package unfurled in the Rose Garden last weekend to cut $500 billion from the Federal budget. A month away from elections, the conservatives were uneasy about supporting the plan's heavy tax hikes. Liberals viewed the package's military cuts and its demands on the rich as much too modest. Legislators spent the day patching together a temporary measure to keep the Government from coming to a halt at midnight Friday, the deadline for the across-the-board spending cuts to balance the budget. But the Administration has evoked Clint Eastwood's ''make my day'' dare, promising to veto anything short of a budget accord. 
 
Oil Retreats
 
In a rare occasion since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2, oil prices closed down for the week, a sign that traders view war in the Persian Gulf as less likely. Crude closed Friday at $37.99, down $1.52 for the week.
 
The Wan Economy
 
The latest evidence of a sickly economy: Unemployment in September was at its highest level since early 1988. The continued sluggishness in manufacturing helped push the rate to 5.7 percent, its third consecutive monthly rise. Economists were surprised by the weakness of the service sector, a sign, they say, that the virus is spreading. Actually, a recession may already have arrived. The last time unemployment rose three straight months was in the depths of the 1980-81 recession.
 
Policing Children's TV
 
Is ''Sesame Street'' educational or simply a vehicle for plugging Bert and his gang - and the toys and novelties based on their characters? The Federal Communications Commission may have to decide - if a bill, which has now passed the House and the Senate, wins White House approval, which is dubious. The measure calls for cutting commercials on children's programs by almost two minutes each hour, to no more than 12 minutes. Broadcasters whose educational programming is deemed lacking could also risk losing their license. How would a program's merits be evaluated? The F.C.C. would be the judge.
 
The Bears Are Everywhere
 
The world's major stock markets just finished the worst quarter since 1974. Wall Street was not spared. Of nearly 4,200 stocks tracked by Media General Financial Services, 3,744 were down for the third quarter; 370 were up. Broad-based equity funds fell an average of 15.52 percent, their biggest drop since the 1987 fourth quarter, according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
 
INTERNATINAL
 
When the German Party Is Over
 
East Germany disintegrated amid a flurry of fireworks on Wednesday as the two Germanys celebrated unification. But the message of the republic's Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, that ''a difficult path lies ahead,'' was sobering. The post-party hangover: Economists expect unemployment to reach 30 percent next year, up to a fourth of the 8,000 state companies to close and the makeover to require at least $600 billion in investment. The hardships have already chilled some German officials to the idea of monetary unity in Europe before the kinks are worked out at home.
 
The cost of German unification has caused higher inflation in Europe. Another hurdle to a speedy monetary union is London's plans to join the European Monetary System on Monday to link the value of the pound to other European currencies. That is expected to roil currency markets for months, but will put Prime Minister Thatcher in a better position to voice her opposition to a single currency.
 
Trying to Rescue the Nikkei
 
To arrest the free fall of the Japanese market, Tokyo took symbolic steps on Monday that, combined with a decline in oil prices and the budget accord in the United States, produced a weekly advance of nearly 9 percent in the Nikkei index. But it may be a futile exercise. A bear is not easily caged.
 
Victory for Chip Makers?
 
The American semiconductor makers were hopeful, but the agreement last week by Japan to further open its $20-billion-a-year chip market seemed a Pyrrhic victory. A new pact will likely give Japan one more year to meet its pledge of a 20 percent market share for foreigners promised under the current contract, which expires in July. But Americans would also have a shot at something closer to 30 percent of the market.
 
COMPANIES
 
Nynex Rebuked
 
The Nynex Corporation was hounded on two fronts last week. First, the New York State Public Service Commission voted to consider forcing it to spin off the New York Telephone Company to prevent pricing abuses that are the subject of an agency investigation. A day later, Nynex settled similar charges with the Federal Communications Commission, agreeing to pay a fine of $1.4 million and to lower charges for interstate calls for one year by $35.5 million. The F.C.C. claims that Nynex padded expenses and that the New York Telephone Company bought equipment at inflated prices from an unregulated Nynex subsidiary, artificially reducing profits and thereby qualifying for rate hikes. Nynex did not admit to wrongdoing.
 
A Humbled Apple Computer
 
Apple Computer is swallowing its pride and lowering its prices - and profit margins - to gain market share. It will switch from a high-priced, low-volume strategy by introducing three relatively low-priced computers this month. In another turnabout, Sony confirmed that it was in negotiations to produce an inexpensive laptop computer for Apple, which has long prided itself on making its own products. Why the sudden changes of heart? Apple's share of the personal computer market is shrinking, in part because of Windows 3.0, the new software that gives I.B.M.-compatible machines some of the graphics gusto of the MacIntosh. ''If Apple doesn't do something, it will be squeezed out, just as Betamax was by V.H.S,'' said Stephen K. Smith, an analyst at Paine Webber.
 
Sematech's Surprising Choice
 
For a group with such a high-powered mission - revving up the American semiconductor industry - Sematech picked a relatively low-profile new chief last week in William J. Spencer. Faced with threats of budget cuts, the Government-industry consortium set out to hire an industry leader with a hot line to Washington. But Mr. Spencer comes from outside the industry, with far fewer credentials and connections than his predecessor, the late Robert N. Noyce, founder of the Intel Corporation and the father of the integrated circuit chip.
 
G.M.'s Strategy for the 90's
 
The General Motors Corporation makes a deliberate attempt once a decade to win over imported car buyers. While neither the Corvair, Vega, nor Pontiac Sunbird held enough sway in the 60's, 70's, or 80's, respectively, to meet that challenge, G.M. holds out hope for its snappy new Saturns. They will be rolled out next week, some at Japanese-style prices: a base of $8,000, down from the $12,000 G.M. had entertained.

GRAPHIC: Photos: White House and Congressional leaders fashioned the budget accord in private sessions (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); William J. Spencer, new Sematech chief.; The Saturn, from G.M.; ''Sesame Street's'' Bert; graphs: last two weeks' daily price closings for a barrel of crude oil for November delivery (Source: New York Mercantile Exchange); U.S. share of the Japanese semiconductor market, 1985-1990 (1990, projection) (Source: Semiconductor Industry Association); civilian unemployment rate, Oct. 1986-Sept. 1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (60%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (75%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); TAX LAW (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); TAX INCREASES (55%); 

PERSON: HOFMEISTER, SALLIE GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



222 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2645 words

HEADLINE: The Hidden Pep in America's Economy

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
In their determination to sharply cut the budget deficit during the next five years, Congressional leaders and the President may be ignoring or overlooking important strengths in the American economy that over the long term could lessen the need for such drastic medicine.
These strengths show up with surprising regularity in reviews of how businesses actually conduct their operations.
Even so, business leaders and economists generally endorse the budget proposal now before Congress, at least in its initial stage, though many believe it may drive the nation toward recession. They do so if only to demonstrate that Government spending can be controlled.
''Even someone as much in favor of deficit reduction as I am must agree that this package is initially contractionary,'' said Benjamin Friedman of Harvard University. 
But locking the nation into repeated cuts - taking $500 billion from the budget between now and 1995, as the President and Congressional leaders are proposing - could sap the country's productive strength and cut off potential for growth, making matters worse.
Risking the hardship requires great faith in two interlocking economic theories that are widely espoused by economists but have not been fully tested since World War II, and they are often challenged by American corporations in daily practice. One theory is that during periods of economic difficulty the United States loses the capacity for robust economic growth; the other is that a budget deficit limits national growth.
''The whole exercise in cutting the budget deficit and endangering the economy is based on the perception that the long expansion in the 1980's has pushed the economy close to its capacity to expand efficiently,'' said Robert M. Solow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a Nobel laureate in economics. ''If that is not true, then we are forcing ourselves into a hardship that might not be necessary.''
The theories go something like this: Just as a grocer who takes in $10,000 in sales but pays $5,000 in store rent has little left over to invest in a second store, so Americans, after loaning billions of dollars to the Government to pay all its bills, lack enough cash to invest in new sources of wealth. Neither the high rent nor the Government's outlays for weaponry, food stamps and many other programs are considered particularly wealth-producing.
 
Lay the Blame on Spending
 In the news media, these theories show up in various forms. One is the criticism that Americans don't save enough, so there aren't enough funds available in the private sector to invest in new machinery and other wealth-producing devices - without help from the Japanese and the Europeans, who have become big American investors in the last decade. Sometimes consumers are blamed for the savings shortage; they're dismissed as profligate spenders. But mostly the Government is accused of dipping too heartily into the national savings pool for what amounts to wasteful consumption. Or borrowing too much from the Japanese and the Europeans, who in the future will drain billions of dollars in interest payments from the country. (In fact, Government debt held by foreigners ranged between 15 and 18 percent of the total in the 80's and is now 16.5 percent.) Another outcry is that the low civilian unemployment rate, 5.3 percent until recently and now only 5.7, is evidence that the nation lacks enough skilled workers to expand production and generate great new wealth. There simply aren't enough skilled people to open a new factory or expand an existing one without luring workers away from another operation, which then has to shut down. ''I don't know whether full employment is 5.1 percent or 5.5 percent, but compared with the early 80's, when it reached 9 percent, we are at full employment now,'' Mr. Friedman said.
No economist doubts that the United States economy, or any economy, for that matter, has a growth ceiling. Many hold that the American ceiling today is roughly 6 percent a year, before adjustment for inflation. In other words, the United States can only add $300 billion in 1990 to a gross national product that generated $5.2 trillion last year in new manufactured goods and in payments for the numerous services that Americans performed. The $300 billion, in theory, is the nation's maximum growth capacity.
The upshot is that the deficit - $149 billion in 1989 and more than $250 billion in 1990 - is growing at 67 percent, eating up potential investment funds in an economy that today is expanding not at its 6 percent maximum, but at only 4 percent. If allowed to grow unchecked, such deficits will choke off economic growth altogether. That's the theory, but ask business executives about these deadly growth ceilings and a much more amorphous picture emerges, one suggesting that deficit reduction might be an oversold solution and the deficits themselves an exaggerated danger.
Even with very little Government belt-tightening, the economy might be made to grow faster than the deficit, the businessmen seem to suggest. Or as Richard Ayers, chairman and chief executive of the Stanley Works, the tool manufacturer, put it: ''If people ask me, 'Is Stanley operating at full capacity,' I say to them, 'that is a crazy question.' I don't know what full capacity means.''
 
Dynamics of Growth
 Four corporate experiences help to illustrate the dynamics of economic growth:
* The Stanley Works, whose network of factories includes a Dallas operation that manufactures sockets and wrenches, found that bottlenecks had developed last year in heat-treating and plating, two of the 20 or so steps that go into making these tools. A relatively small investment in new equipment for these steps increased overall production capacity by more than 20 percent, Mr. Ayers said.
Theoretically, high interest rates - corporations often pay 9 percent or more to borrow for investment - should have discouraged Stanley from making the investment. The high rates reflect the shrunken savings pool in the private sector, and they do discourage many companies already deeply in debt. But in thousands of investment decisions, they aren't an obstacle. In Stanley's case, ''given the big increase in output, the cost of the capital was a minor factor,'' Mr. Ayers said. A limited supply of labor is also often a minor factor. Stanley makes steel tape rules in Norwalk, Conn., its headquarters, and in Besancon, France; the former for the American market and the latter for Europe. But when demand surges in the United States then, rather than increase the work force in Connecticut and perhaps bid up wages in a tight labor market, Stanley imports extra tapes from Besancon. And the line vanishes between America's labor supply and the world's.
''One virtue of capitalism is that it is very adaptable,'' said Richard Freeman, a labor economist at Harvard. ''A tight labor market leads to all sorts of inventive solutions.''
* Gillette, operating a factory in South Boston that makes razors and blades, has found that applicants for the 2,000 factory floor jobs are, increasingly, immigrants whose English is weak. Many know enough English to hire on as packers, at more than $8 an hour, but not enough to move up to machine operators, said Timothy Horan, director of human resources for Gillette's manufacturing group. So the company is beginning to offer courses in English, in effect upgrading each immigrant worker's productivity.
The machine operators are also drawn from impoverished South Boston neighborhoods, and many are school dropouts. To do their jobs, Gillette requires that they carry out various math calculations to monitor the efficiency of their machinery. Many can't do the math, so the company runs math courses. Gillette still scours the Boston area for skilled machinery repair people, who can earn $14 an hour, but here too standards are changing.
''Our engineers might be asked to find ways to simplify repair work, or we might soon set up a training classification,'' Mr. Horan said, challenging the economic thesis that Gillette has hit its labor-supply ceiling. As Rudolph G. Penner, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, explains the theory, ''The more you press, the more the cost in training people or in paying higher wages to get trained people.'' As labor costs rise, so does the national inflation rate, diluting the value of the new production. That's how ceilings work.
Mr. Horan doesn't quite agree. ''The training classification would be costly,'' he said, ''but in the end you might get good value because you wouldn't pay these people as much as a skilled mechanic. In the end, it wouldn't be inflationary because you get a payoff.''
* The National Mutual Life Insurance Company, faced with growing competition for life insurance sales, invested $1 million in new computer equipment and software to automate many tasks. In addition, work was reorganized. Service departments, for example, that might once have responded to any customer's telephoned request, no matter how time-consuming, were given guidelines that required them to ''ration'' their replies, said Frederic H. Bertrand, chairman and chief executive.
As a result, without any loss in revenue, employment at National's Montpelier, Vt., headquarters has fallen to 1,009 today from 1,450 in 1987, and two of the five management layers have been eliminated. ''Computerization gets data faster to decision makers,'' Mr. Bertrand said.
Why wasn't National so productivity-minded five years ago? Competition was less. Fluctuating interest rates gave the numerous life insurance companies offering policies the opportunity to compete on the yields their policies earned for their customers. ''People shop for life insurance as if it were certificates of deposit,'' Mr. Bertrand said. Such shopping has shrunk profit margins at National and other companies, prompting much effort and outlay for productivity.
National did not borrow the money for its recent investment. It simply drew on retained earnings. Such corporate income, held at the bank, is part of the nation's savings pool. National in effect financed its investment in labor productivity, increasing the capacity of its work force, by ''borrowing'' from this pool. But the investment wasn't made because the savings existed. Investment does not automatically and instantaneously equal savings, as economic theory often suggests. The driving force in National's case was competition and lower profit margins. The money might also have been distributed as dividends and spent on consumption.
''Capacity is a nebulous notion,'' said Edward F. Denison, a senior fellow and a specialist in productivity at the Brookings Institution. ''Until you test the system, you don't know what the capacity is. When a company has to do something to survive, to compete, it thinks of ways to get what it needs.''
* Penney's, faced with weak department store sales as the economy has grown sluggish over the past year, has invested in a computerized cash register system for its network of stores. Its main feature is a simplified way to ring up a sale, whether the purchaser pays cash or offers a credit card, buys one shirt, or an assortment of shirts and ties.
''There isn't the necessity of a separate credit-card imprint; you just sign the receipt,'' said Ira Silver, Penney's chief economist. ''The machines cut the cashier process from two or three minutes to 30 seconds, and we keep better sales records.''
 
Increased Productivity
 The equipment takes time to install, but as it goes in, Penney's work force shrinks and becomes more productive. The sluggish economy, even a recession, prompts some companies to make their workers more productive - in effect, to expand the capacity of the American labor force.
''When an economy goes through a shock, a boom or a recession, many opportunities are created for a business to reorganize in a different way,'' said Albert Wojnilower, a senior economist at the First Boston Corporation.''
Many factors, then, dictate how quickly and by how much the American economy will grow. Recession plays a role. So does competition. And government policy, including cuts in the budget deficit. As Mr. Solow of M.I.T. notes, the $35 billion or so in first-year budget cuts under the five-year package now before Congress, shifted to the private sector, would add substantially to the nation's array of plants and equipment, if the money were fully invested.
Such a sum could add 7 percent to the $510 billion in gross investment in plants and equipment that is expected this year. The proportion climbs to 17 percent, if the $35 billion is compared with the $200 billion in new investment only, leaving aside replacements of plants and equipment.
The problem is that the investments might not be made; the banks might have the money, and interest rates might fall to lure borrowers, but with national demand way off, many companies will shy away from new investment. Why should the Stanley Works invest in heat treating and plating equipment to remove a potential bottleneck in the production of wrenches and sockets at its Dallas plant, when demand for these tools might be insufficient and production at the factory moves along too slowly for bottlenecks to occur.
Many economists recognize the irony of cutting the budget deficit in the midst of a weak economy. ''If I were God, I would not have picked this moment to cut the budget deficit,'' Mr. Solow said. ''If I were George Bush, who is not God, I would have tried to pick a couple of years ago, when the economy was stronger. But it is better to cut the budget now than not at all.''
 
The Uses of Spending
 But in the years to come it is also conceivable that increased Government spending and involvement in the economy could be helpful, not harmful. Subsidizing corporate research, for example, might help Gillette develop automated razor-making machinery that can be repaired in some simple fashion. Incentives, perhaps tax breaks or trade rules, might convince Stanley to invest in enough new equipment in Norwalk to increase tape rule production there when demand in the American market surges. The new capacity, replacing imports from Stanley's French plant, in effect increases the rate at which the economy can grow.
The main engine for economic growth, then, seems to be the steady demand that comes when both consumers and the Government are in a mood to spend. And objections to Government spending, even deficit spending, subside when the economy manages to grow at a faster pace than either the deficit or the total national debt.
That was the case in the late 80's, when the deficit fell to 3 percent of the gross national product from 6 percent in 1983, and it was also the case in the 50's and 60's. Robust economic growth made the nation's debt a minor concern, although in the 50's and 60's, the debt was 45 percent or more of the gross national product Today it is 44.5 percent. Budget deficits, of course, surge during recessions. Tax revenues fall as income declines, but Government outlays remain strong. The deficit rose beyond the $200-billion-a-year level after the 1981-82 recession, and the cry went up for reform. Now as the economy weakens again and the annual deficit moves toward $300 billion, deficit cutting once more becomes an American obsession.
The nation was similarly driven to seek a balanced budget in 1932. As the Depression began to unfold, the budget went from surplus into deficit.
The switch came just before the Presidential nominating conventions, alarming both Democrats and Republicans. With Franklin Delano Roosevelt in agreement, the Hoover Administration and Congress, in a display of bipartisan accord, doubled income tax rates and cut spending sharply - all in the name of fiscal integrity.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); graphs: Federal debt, 1950-June 1990 (Source: Federal Reserve); the annual Federal budget deficit, 1950-June 1990 (Source: Federal Reserve); the annual U.S. unemployment rate, 1970-June 1990 (Source: Treasury Dept.); percent of U.S. government debt owed to foreigners, 1970-June 1990 (Source: Treasury Dept.); industrial capacity in use, 1970-June 1990 (Source: Federal Reserve); changes in hourly compenstaton, 1970-June 1990 (Source: Treasury Dept.); percent growth in manufacturing productivity, 1970-June 1990 (Source: Treasury Dept.); percent change in productivity growth in all other sectors, excluding manufacturing, 1970-June 1990 (Source: Treasury Dept.) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (65%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



223 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: Forbes publishes annual listing of 400 wealthiest Americans. New York Stock Exchange hosts session for Soviets on how to run a stock exchange. 
 
TUESDAY: Deadline for employee group to obtain financing for $4.38 billion buyout of UAL.
 
WEDNESDAY: Greyhound Lines bankruptcy hearing. Canadian Auto Workers' strike deadline against General Motors.
 
THURSDAY: General Motors officially releases its 1991 Saturn. Leading retailers report September sales. Special hearing convened on unadmitted crimes alleged against Michael R. Milken.
 
FRIDAY: Retail sales for September. Producer prices for September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); STRIKES (87%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); RETAIL SALES (85%); PRODUCER PRICES (85%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (85%); RETAILERS (85%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (84%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (84%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (83%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL R MILKEN (57%); 



224 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
Why Did New York Hire 49,000 Workers in 7 Years?

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Whatever blame may eventually accrue to the administration of David N. Dinkins as it lurched and stumbled into the city's worst fiscal crisis in 15 years, the underlying municipal budget problems were not of Mr. Dinkins's creation.
In just one week Mr. Dinkins approved a 5.5 percent labor agreement with city teachers - far more expensive than expected - proposed a sweeping expansion of the police force, and then, in an abrupt reversal, announced a hiring freeze and said he was considering laying off 15,000.
But even if Mr. Dinkins had not seemed to swerve, it is likely that he would have been facing the same bleak fiscal outlook he did last week.
Behind the crisis were years of strong economic growth, during which the city added thousands of workers each year. Then as a deepening regional recession rolled across the Northeast, New York was particularly hard hit. 
''We had seven fat years,'' said one state fiscal monitor. ''I hope it won't be followed by seven lean.''
Since 1983, as the city shook off the effects of the 1975 fiscal crisis, the number of workers in city agencies and public schools soared from 194,000 to 243,000 - 49,000 workers, an increase of 25 percent. There were 13,000 more teachers, 10,000 more social service caseworkers, 5,000 more corrections officers, 700 more park workers. The mayor's office added 280 employees and other elected city officials added more than 1,400. The fire department, whose high staffing levels were denounced by business and civic groups, lost 500.
This hiring was no secret. It was a highlight of budget presentations by former Mayor Edward I. Koch. In most years, he announced the hiring of even more employees, especially more police, than the city was actually able to hire that year. Nonetheless, the numbers rose steadily. By 1987, he had added more than 4,200 police officers, but as the economy worsened during his last year in office, 1,500 were lost through attrition.
Thousands of other workers were hired to meet government mandates or satisfy lawsuits. Name a problem - homelessness, AIDS, drugs, crime - and the city hired people to deal with it.
As the number of children in foster care rose, the city added caseworkers, sometimes after children's advocates sued. Homeless shelters required hundreds of workers. A class-action lawsuit meant more special education teachers. More drug-related arrests meant more corrections officers.
Though the poor and their advocates never viewed Mr. Koch as a friend, his budgets were more and more directing city resources and jobs to help them.
At the same time, the Federal government was doing little to help New York cope with its growing social problems, city officials said. Federal aid dropped from 21 percent of the city budget in the early 1980's to 9 percent this year, a loss of $3 billion each year.
''There were increasing pressures on the city for vital services,'' said Philip R. Michael, the city budget director, who is drafting layoff plans.
What made the extraordinary city job growth possible was a local economy that was surging on the strength of the financial industry. Year after year, city revenues grew far faster than inflation. Worries about future deficits were washed away by end-of-year surpluses.
State Comptroller Edward V. Regan regularly pointed to the rapid job growth, questioning whether the city would be able to afford it.
Then, beginning with the stock market crash in 1987, New York's economy faltered. While few economists think the massive losses of the early 1970's will be repeated, many say the robust growth of the 1980's is at an end.
''Times have changed, business as usual has ended,'' said Alan J. Proctor, executive director of the State Financial Control Board, which monitors city finances. While the hiring decisions made in the 1980's made sense then, he said, the city can no longer afford to pay its high ''core level'' of spending. But since relatively few of these new jobs can be cut, others may have to go. The likely candidates are park, health and sanitation workers.
The proposed layoffs are a rather crude weapon to cut payrolls with. Trimming waste requires productivity improvements, which in turn require skilled managers and intricate negotiations with municipal unions. It took years for the city to get two workers rather than three on each sanitation truck.
Last fall, Mr. Regan wrote to Mr. Dinkins and his transition team warning them that the city was facing the largest projected budget gaps since 1981, the year the city first balanced its budget after the fiscal crisis. He urged them to cut back plans to add employees, reminding them that New Yorkers already bear the highest tax burden in the country.
Nonetheless Mr. Dinkins's first budget called for adding 4,746 employees in the fiscal year that began on July 1, and hundreds of millions in new taxes. This does not include the 3,416 extra police officers, 1,626 civilians, and others to be hired under the police plan.
Now, Mr. Michael said, the city is going to be forced to cut that same payroll by as many as 15,000 jobs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor David N. Dinkins last week discussing the possible layoff of at least 15,000 city workers. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times); graphs: New York City's population, 1975-1988 (1988, provisional) (Source: Census Bureau); police manpower, 1975-1991 (1990-91, proposed) (Source: Office of Management and Budget); city employees, 1975-1990 (Source: Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAYOFFS (LABOR); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RECESSION (89%); CITIES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LITIGATION (84%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CHILD WELFARE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TRENDS (69%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); AIDS & HIV (64%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (62%); FOSTER CARE (60%); ANTIVIRALS (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (60%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); BARBANEL, JOSH DAVID N DINKINS (85%); 



225 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Drinking Water Will Be Purer, But at What Price?

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD

 BODY:
Can drinking water be too clean?
Throughout the nation, communities relying on reservoirs for tap water are asking whether they can afford to comply with Federal environmental regulations. The rules, resulting from 1986 amendments to the Safe Drinking Water Act, affect 9,000 systems that serve constituencies ranging in size from rural trailer parks in Maine to New York City.
The regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency say that communities must filter drinking water, rather than simply chlorinating it, unless they can convince regulators they have adequate watershed protection programs. Congress ordered the safeguards largely to prevent giardiasis, a waterborne bacterial disease. 
Water-system officials see a ''sleeper'' with huge costs. The Environmental Protection Agency estimated that complying with the requirements could cost $3 billion to $5 billion, plus $500 million to $700 million in annual operating costs.
Both regulators and water officials agree that the financial impact will be greatest on the smallest water systems, which have fewer customers to absorb costs. Many bigger systems already filter their water.
''The financial burden is just too much,'' said Sam Wade, director of professional programs at the National Rural Water Association in Duncan, Okla., which represents smaller water systems. Some privately run systems might disband rather than pay for filtration, forcing residents to return to wells, he said.
''I doubt that that's the intent of the Safe Drinking Water Act,'' Mr. Wade said. The new regulations cover only surface-water systems, not ground water. The suppliers must already comply with other requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act, enacted in 1974, and the Clean Water Act, which limits the pollution of rivers and lakes. A major issue is whether filtration is worth the effort. Giardiasis causes discomfort but is not life-threatening. Stig Regli, an E.P.A. engineer who headed the Government team that wrote the rule, said there had been about 100 reported cases since 1965, although many more have probably gone unreported.
 
New York's Protest
 A New York State Senate committee report released last June asked: ''Is it really necessary for the water users of New York City alone to spend $4 billion to gain protection from an intestinal ailment that doesn't occur very often and doesn't do mortal damage when it does?'' Five cases of giardiasis have been reported in the last three years, the New York State Health Department said.
Mr. Regli said the regulation was ''probably questionable from a benefit-cost perspective,'' referring to medical costs and time lost from work. But when community reaction to an outbreak was factored in -unfavorable publicity, necessity of boiling water or buying bottled water - the requirement was found worth the price, he said.
Most systems could satisfy the filtration requirement with simple sand-and-gravel filters, Mr. Regli said. The chief cost would be constructing the plants required for filtering.
To avoid filtration, a water system must have a plan to insure that the sources of the water are clean and must begin complying with the plan by December 1991. If the E.P.A. rejects the plan, the system has 18 months from that date to begin filtering. Exemptions of up to three years for economic hardship are possible.
New York City, the biggest system, is pushing hard to avoid filtration. Environmental officials say it could cost $4 billion to build a plant to handle the city's daily flow of 1.5 billion gallons and at least $200 million a year to operate it. Albert F. Appleton, the city's environmental commissioner, has called this a ''waterworks of totally unparalleled size'' that would double water rates.
His plan: Through better land management and sewage treatment, protect the rural Catskill and Delaware watersheds 100 miles north, which account for 90 percent of the city's drinking water. The city is already building a $600 million plant to filter water from the Croton watershed of Westchester and Putnam counties, areas where development exacted a big toll on water quality.
Whether the Federal Government approves the Catskill watershed protection effort may not matter. The State Health Department can hold the city to tighter standards, and for now asserts that filtration must be in place by the end of 2005. City and state officials are negotiating. ''We're not as optimistic as the city is,'' said Michael E. Burke, a state health department official.
The Massachusetts Water Resources Authority, which serves 46 communities including Boston, faces at least $300 million in filtration costs that it hopes to avoid through a watershed control plan. The water may be clearer if filtered, but no safer, said John Shawcross, the authority's director of capital engineering and development.
''If you can't show health improvement, why do we need to spend all that money?'' he asked. Local water and sewer rates are already on the way up because of expensive improvements in sewage treatment.
Larger systems at least have the advantage of economies of scale, water experts say. That is not the case with rural systems that may have just a few dozen users.
Steven Levy, manager of the Maine Rural Water Association of Brunswick, Me., said that requiring filtration could raise water rates in some systems from $135 a year to $600. Mr. Levy said even applying for an exemption to the rules may be too costly for some, and for those systems that must filter, obtaining a bank loan could be impossible.
His association is attempting to combine some small systems into quasi-municipal water districts that could be eligible for loans from a Federal program for farmers. But there is no money for the loans right now, Mr. Levy said.
''We're scrambling,'' he said. ''We're bending and twisting to try and make this work.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Water fountain (Eddie Hausner/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); NATIONAL RURAL WATER ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL RURAL WATER ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

SUBJECT: WATER; STATES (US); FINANCES; CHLORINE US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); LAKES (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); DISEASE REPORTING (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); TRAILER PARKS (73%); CHLORINE (71%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R STIG REGLI (61%); 



226 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
A Shudder of Insecurity Awakens the Caribbean

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

 BODY:
When 113 members of a fringe Muslim group blew up police headquarters and held Trinidad and Tobago's Prime Minister, much of his Cabinet and several members of Parliament hostage for several days in July, the English-speaking Caribbean's relaxed aura of stability was again proven gauze thin.
Since the United States invaded Grenada in 1983, after a hard-line Marxist faction of the revolutionary government executed the popular Prime Minister and several of his colleagues, many in the Caribbean had come to see the English-speaking islands as a coup-proof bastion of democracy.
But the Trinidad coup attempt, along with mounting evidence of destabilization by other factors - among them harsh economic programs, drug and arms trafficking and money laundering - have underscored the difficulty of keeping order in a region whose long history includes piracy, smuggling and uprisings against foreign-imposed orders.
From Antigua, where a British barrister is looking into possible involvement by Government officials in a plot to transship Israeli arms to a Colombian drug warlord, to Montserrat and the Dutch island of Aruba, where banks have been suspected of money-laundering, to the Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos islands, where government ministers have been convicted on drug charges, academics and law enforcement officials say the Caribbean Sea is aboil with skulduggery and subversive activities. 
That the Jamaat al Muslimeen, the Trinidadian group that attempted the coup, needed only 130 weapons - 105 of them bought in south Florida gun shops - to come within a hair's breadth of overthrowing the Government of one of the region's most populous nations, demonstrates the fragility of the area's security, Caribbean leaders say.
''It would not be difficult for drug people to take over a political party, target key constituencies and gain power,'' said John Compton, Prime Minister of St. Lucia. ''Then you would have the entire paraphernalia of government serving local or international drug interests.''
Several bodies created for economic cooperation, including the Caribbean Community and the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, have recently begun emphasizing security matters, a concern that first arose after the Grenada invasion. Two Caricom members, Jamaica and Barbados, sent troops to patrol the streets after the Trinidad coup attempt. The Eastern Caribbean group has also invited Trinidad to cooperate on regional security issues.
Mr. Compton said one measure has been a dramatic increase in the communication with the intelligence services of the United States, Britain and France. But Anthony P. Maingot, a Caribbean affairs expert at Florida International University in Miami, said that because it has long focused principally on Cuba, United States intelligence in the region ''has been pretty poor.''
''The Government has not yet fully realized,'' he said, ''that the mafias involved in gun and narcotics traffic are not especially interested in these islands for the purpose of controlling the local economies, but to penetrate the United States, to get a better foothold in the American market.''
Mr. Maingot and others say that the low income levels and economic austerity that prevail on most islands make them particularly susceptible to contraband dealers, especially those in the drug trade.
 
Economic Vulnerability
''We applaud all of the economic reforms that promote liberalization, but short-term austerity plans have negative consequences and clearly give opportunities to criminal forces,'' said Max Primorac, a fellow at the Council for Inter-American Security in Washington. With police officials earning about $6,000 a year on even relatively wealthy islands, he said, ''it doesn't take very much to get people to do what you want, whether that means turning a blind eye to drug smuggling or traffic in arms.''
Governments from the Bahamas to Trinidad and the small states that have been particular targets of drug and arms traffickers say that efforts to suppress contraband are becoming increasingly costly.
''They have no shortage of money and no shortage of the most sophisticated equipment,'' said Lynden O. Pindling, Prime Minister of the Bahamas, referring to the ability of smugglers to corrupt officials.
The costs of interdiction, he added, ''may grow beyond the capability of our islands to handle it.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rebel surrendering in August after the attempted coup in Trinidad and Tobago. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (99%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GRENADA (93%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); ARUBA (79%); BARBADOS (79%); CUBA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); MONTSERRAT (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CARIBBEAN AREA; TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MONEY LAUNDERING; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES COUPS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARITIME PIRACY (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (74%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (73%); TRENDS (73%); GUN CONTROL (70%); FIREARMS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W



227 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1831 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
The Nightmare Haunting Washington Is Set in Beirut, Not Vietnam

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
While there has been much talk lately about how the experience of American troops in Vietnam is influencing policy makers in dealing with Iraq, the shadow of another military campaign may actually weigh more heavily on the minds of many American planners, as well as their allies in the Arab world and Israel. That is the bitter experience they all encountered in Beirut between 1982 and 1984.
To be sure, there are fundamental differences between the Lebanon fiasco and the confrontation in the Persian Gulf. The stakes are much higher in the gulf and the objectives of all sides much clearer. But many of the problems that bedeviled Americans, Arabs and Israelis in Lebanon still haunt the region, and they are now being recalled with foreboding by those who were involved. Many of these people are still in vital positions - from Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who was White House chief of staff in 1982, to the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Syria and Iraq. Even some of the Marines now stationed in the Saudi desert got their first taste of battle dodging bullets in Beirut.
In June 1982 the Israelis invaded Lebanon, quickly besieging West Beirut and imposing a total embargo, in an effort to force the Palestine Liberation Organization to unconditionally withdraw - much as the world now is trying to press Baghdad to unconditionally pull out of Kuwait. 
But it is often forgotten that more than two months after the Israelis imposed their siege to starve the P.L.O. into submission, Beirutis were still dining on imported delicacies and fresh fruit. Why? Because an airtight economic embargo in the Middle East is a contradiction in terms. Even in the tiny area of West Beirut, some of Israel's allies in the Christian Phalangist militia were bought off by the P.L.O. and allowed food to be smuggled in. When the siege did begin to pinch - when the Israelis turned the water off - heart-rending pictures of thirsty and hungry children were beamed abroad, making it extremely difficult for Israel to sustain the pressure.
The situation with Iraq is different in a number of respects, but one is of crucial importance: While the United Nations embargo may not be able to control everything that goes in, it is able to control virtually everything that goes out. Since the Iraqi economy depends on the export of a single product - oil - it could be ground to a halt, which will create its own pressures and problems, even if it is not starved to death. Nevertheless, as Lebanon illustrates, in a region long practiced in smuggling and piracy, and among peoples long inured to war, it could take a long time to bring Iraq to a boil.
Indeed, one of the central lessons of the Beirut experience is the larger relationship between force and diplomacy in the Middle East. For the first two months of the Israeli siege, when Israel relied primarily on the embargo to build up pressure on Beirutis so they would force the P.L.O. to leave, the P.L.O. leader, Yasir Arafat, simply stalled. He offered a new diplomatic deal each week, but always with the same bottom line: The P.L.O. stays in Beirut.
What finally moved Mr. Arafat to unconditionally withdraw was not hunger but fear. And that happened only after Ariel Sharon, then Israel's Defense Minister, concluded that unless Israel bombed and talked at the same time, it would be talking to itself. Mr. Sharon ordered such massive bombings of West Beirut that the P.L.O. leader became convinced that the Israelis were prepared to go to the same destructive lengths as he was - that they would indeed bring the whole city down on top of his head, killing him and destroying his entire organization. Mr. Sharon made the choice for Mr. Arafat very simple: stay in Beirut and lose everything, or leave and survive. He left.
Administration officials insist that those are also Saddam Hussein's choices. But is he convinced? In 1982, the Israelis had the advantage of operating alone; they could control the message they wanted to send to Mr. Arafat. But in confronting Iraq, the United States is part of an international coalition. If the threat to President Hussein is to be credible, it must come from every member of this coalition; otherwise it gets diluted. With the Soviets, French and Japanese all exploring diplomatic solutions in recent days, the message to Baghdad is becoming very mixed. If Beirut is any precedent, as long as the Iraqi leader believes that the Americans are not really free to go after him, he will negotiate from now until Christmas - Christmas 1991, Christmas 1992, Christmas 1993 . . .
In 1982, the Israelis began massive bombing only after learning the hard way how costly it can be for a foreign army to fight an urban war in an unfamiliar and densely populated Middle Eastern city. If an army is prepared to intersperse itself with the civilian population, as the P.L.O. did in Beirut and the Iraqis are doing in Kuwait City, the attacker has to be prepared not only to sustain large numbers of combat casualties among its troops, but to inflict large numbers of civilian casualties as well.
''If you are the defender, a war in a city is the best possible war to fight,'' said Teddy Lapkin, a former Israeli army captain who spent two and a half years in Lebanon. ''But if you are the attacker it is the most costly type of warfare to fight. Next time you walk out of your office, look down the street and imagine that you are leading a company of troops. From every window, from every door, behind every corner and every ledge there could be a sniper waiting to blow your brains out. If someone is firing at you from a building and you don't have the troops to take every floor, then the only option you have is to call in a tank and put enough shells into the foundation to bring the whole building down. If civilians are inside, it is a tragedy, but as a military man what else can you do?''
Beirut also teaches another lesson about the relationship between force and diplomacy. During the summer of 1982, the Israelis managed to destroy the backbone of the Syrian Air Force. If ever Syria's President, Hafez al-Assad, was vulnerable to being pushed out of Lebanon, it was then. In September 1982, after the Israelis withdrew from West Beirut, they were replaced by the United States Marines, who came as peace-keepers to help the Lebanese Government get on its feet. Many American officials argued at the time that with the P.L.O. already out of Lebanon, Washington's top priority should be to press the Syrians and Israelis to leave as well, so that Lebanon's sovereignty could be restored.
What happened instead was that the Reagan Administration felt guilty about having stood by while the P.L.O. was forced to withdraw unconditionally. They were also under pressure from moderate Arabs and Europeans to somehow compensate the P.L.O., and so they introduced a peace plan - the Sept. 1, 1982, Reagan plan - that called for the creation of a Palestinian homeland. The Israelis, who hated the Reagan plan, became so preoccupied with trying to kill it, and the Reagan Administration became so preoccupied with trying to sell it, that the objective of removing all foreign forces from Lebanon was deflected and eventually abandoned.
''We lost our focus on Lebanon when we introduced the Reagan plan and ended up letting everybody off the hook,'' said a State Department official who watched these developments firsthand. ''In the meantime, the Syrians were able to rebuild their army and turn the Lebanese against us. By the time we woke up it was too late.''
Some American officials were reminded of that episode last week as they watched President Bush declaring at the United Nations that an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait could pave the way for a settlement of the Arab-Israeli dispute. Will the French and other peace plans now emerging shift some of the focus away from Kuwait and buy President Hussein the time he wants to wear the Americans down?
That question brings up another lesson the Administration does appear to have learned from Beirut. With the killing of 241 American servicemen by a Shiite Muslim driving a suicide truck bomb in October 1983, it became clear just how easily the local population can go from throwing rice to throwing grenades.
One policy maker said: ''One day the Lebanese were applauding and the next day they were sniping. What that means in the gulf is that if we start to lose Arab support within, or among, countries, we are in trouble - both politically and physically. That is why from the start we felt that the most important thing we had to do is to maintain an Arab consensus in support of this operation. We cannot afford to lose even a single country. Not one. It keeps me up at night worrying.''
What keeps America's Arab allies up worrying at night is the flip side of this story. The Saudis, Egyptians and others watched in 1984 as the American giant turned out to have feet of clay. The thing they remember most about the marines in Beirut was not their arrival, but their departure. In Arab eyes, the Marines simply cut and ran from Lebanon when the Syrians and their Lebanese allies made the cost of staying too high.
So it is memories of Beirut, not Vietnam, that obsess the Arabs today. Having learned from Syria, President Hussein appears to be counting on the Americans to have no staying power once body bags start coming home. Said one top American policy maker: ''He must be disabused of that.''
Finally, the most important Beirut lesson is that it is a lot easier to start a war in the Middle East than it is to finish it. The Israelis invaded Lebanon to drive out the P.L.O., but they eventually concluded that this could only be done by going all the way to Beirut and decapitating the organization. Stopping short of that would simply have involved them in an endless war of attrition.
But once they expelled the P.L.O., the Israelis could not find an exit for themselves. The Lebanese allies they had counted on to control Lebanon for them and to keep the P.L.O. out either were assassinated or disappeared. So the Israelis won the war but could not consolidate the peace. In the end they, too, had to unilaterally withdraw, abandoning any influence over Beirut. At the same time they had to maintain a permanent garrison in southern Lebanon to protect their most vital security interests.
American military planners insist that if Washington goes to war against Iraq it will also try to sever the regime from its head in Baghdad, so that the Iraqi forces in Kuwait will drop like a dead limb. But if Lebanon is any guide, filling the power vacuum that would be created by a headless, war-ravaged Iraq would not be easy and could require a permanent American presence as well. In the Middle East, the line between military victory and political defeat is razor thin. It is easy to start a war; Saddam Hussein has proven that. But knowing how to finish it, while keeping your gains intact- that is the real trick.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beirut 1983: Bomb explosion at the U.S. Embassy killed 63 people. (Laurent Maous/Gamma-Liaison)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: LEBANON (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); VIET NAM (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (96%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (72%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; LEBANON; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LEBANON-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); STARVATION (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); ARMED FORCES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (72%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); 



228 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: TAXING MATTERS;
A Call for Sacrifice, and the Answer Is No

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Coalition government, or at least America's de facto version of it, collided with representative democracy on the floor of the House of Representatives early Friday morning, and after the crash the grand budget compromise so painfully wrought by top Congressional leaders and the Bush Administration lay in ruins.
If anything was clear from the debacle, it was that the entrenched political habits of nearly two decades are not so easily shaken, even when the threat is a shutdown of much of the Government.The bitter, bipartisan concoction of tax increases and spending cuts that the House dramatically rejected was supposed to have brokenthe budget stalemate that has been the culmination of forces slowing serious policy-making in Washington for 15 years.
The leaders knew it would be a hard sell, especially the cuts in Medicare, and in the end President Bush could not persuade enough Republicans to swallow the tax increases he had promised never to accept.
''This is a different branch of government,'' said Representative Mickey Edwards, an Oklahoma Republican. ''The President can't deliver us. I'm not a package to be picked up at the department store.'' 
Under a parliamentary system, such a crisis would have toppled the Government and forced elections. But America's brand of representative democracy is messier than that. On Saturday, even as President Bush vetoed a stopgap budget and the House failed to override him, lawmakers spun off into separate, frantic searches for ways to keep the government functioning.
Wall Street, used to Washington's games of political chicken, looked the other way last week. But if the paralysis continues, the financial markets may not be so obliging.
 
The Reagan Theme
 For all the hand-wringing about deficit spending and its attendant problems of high interest rates and declining American competitiveness, politicians in both parties have been unsuccessful in making a compelling case for the abstraction of deficit-cutting. ''The pain of reducing the deficit comes up front, early and directly, and it's easily traceable,'' said Gary Jacobson, a professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego and a specialist on Congressional elections. ''The benefits, on the other hand, are less certain, longer term and harder to take credit for. The main priority for both sides is protecting their core constituencies - groups served by social programs if you're a Democrat, and the business community if you're a Republican. Neither side is willing to trade that off for a smaller deficit.''
Indeed, successful politics, especially during Ronald Reagan's Presidency and through most of George Bush's first two years, virtually precluded any other approach.
At the state and local level, that meant ballot initiatives freezing property taxes or otherwise constraining the ability of legislatures to raise new revenues. Nationally, it meant oblivion for any politician foolish enough to buck the anti-tax tide.
Republicans pledged to cut taxes or at least keep them from rising, and Democrats pledged to maintain and improve costly benefit programs for the poor, the sick and the elderly. Since neither party troubled to explain how all this largess would be paid for, Americans simply opted for both at the ballot box, electing Republicans to the White House and Democrats to Congress.
Although divided Government also meant that neither party could fully carry out its priorities, the system worked as long as nobody paid attention to the mounting Federal deficit. When fiscal conservatives in both parties began to sound alarm bells in the mid-1980's, Congress and the executive branch constructed for themselves a Rube Goldberg doomsday machine known as the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced budget law.
If the two branches of Government and the two different parties that controlled them could not agree to spending cuts and tax increases, the law would do it for them, imposing automatic, across-the-board cuts in a wide array of domestic and military programs. The enforcement mechanism was designed to be so onerous and disruptive that lawmakers and the President would come to their fiscal senses before it ever had to be invoked.
But maneuvering to avoid the strictures of the law consumed decision-making time, delaying action even on unrelated legislation, until all the budget numbers were brokered. Then, at the end of the session, rank-and-file lawmakers were forced into a take-it-or-leave-it vote on a single massive bill. Most took it.
But this year, with the specter of recession, huge costs of bailing out the savings and loan industry and an unexpected rise in oil prices, Democrats and Republicans discovered that their conflicting priorities for running up the deficit were nothing compared to their conflicts over how to reduce it. ''We like to make tough speeches, but we don't like to make tough choices,'' said the Senate Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas.
Hemmed in by the promises they had made to their constituencies for decades, each side bucked the tough decisions to their leaders and three of the President's most senior advisers: the Treasury Secretary, Nicholas Brady, the budget director, Richard G. Darman, and the White House chief of staff, John Sununu. Two weeks of intense bargaining and five months of preparatory negotiations yielded a compromise that slashed $500 billion from the deficit over five years. It let the President say he had raised taxes but not tax rates and let Democratic leaders say they had cut the Medicare program for the elderly, but spared Social Security.
Maybe it wasn't perfect, the weary authors acknowledged, but in a Government where Republicans control the White House and Democrats control the Congress, the plan was, they said, the best that could be produced. A majority of House Democrats and Republicans thought otherwise, unwilling to yield their party identities or their own deficit-reduction prescriptions for a deal struck by eight summiteers meeting in a closed session.
''Don't you understand, members, we are charting new waters here,'' Representative Ronald V. Dellums, a liberal California Democrat, told his colleagues in an impassioned plea to reject the budget. ''We are blurring the distinctions betweeen the legislative and executive branches of Government, we are threatening the system of checks and balances. Budgets don't exist in a vacuum. Didn't we come here to fight for what we believe in?'' Notwithstanding all the lofty rhetoric about blurred party identities and constitutional responsibilities, the truth is that closed-door deals among small groups of lawmakers and Administration officials are a way of life on Capitol Hill. The real problem with the budget accord was that mail and phone calls to Congressional offices were running eight to one against it, just a month before all 435 seats in the House would be at stake in the Nov. 6 elections.
 
State of the States
 ''Let's face it,'' said Representative Thomas M. Foglietta, a Pennsylvania Democrat, who voted reluctantly for the compromise. ''The problem many of us are facing is how to explain this agreement to people back home, to Federal workers, to working families, to senior citizens. And that is not easy because this means a lot of pain. But what is the alternative, throwing up our hands and giving up, continuing to ignore the problem?''
State and local officials could have warned their counterparts in Washington about what to expect. In New Jersey, Gov. Jim Florio campaigned in 1989 saying he saw no need for new taxes, only to find himself pressing the legislature, successfully, for higher sales and income taxes shortly after taking office.
Mr. Florio said the tax increases would allow property tax relief to low- and middle-income people and shift state aid to schools from wealthy suburban areas to poor city districts. But the very people he said the tax changes would help were among the most vocal in their rage, and the Governor became the subject of a recall effort and anti-tax demonstrations.
In New York, the Legislature was seven weeks late this year in meeting its legal deadline for passage of a budget, a record-breaking delay. The plan included the largest tax increase in the state's history, $1.4 billion, and involved new levies on corporations, petroleum refiners and luxury hotel rooms, expansion of the state's sales tax to some personal services and an increase in the tax on beer.
New York City's Mayor, David N. Dinkins, struggling to find ways to expand the police force and facing a budget deficit besides, has proposed a 25 percent surcharge on lottery tickets sold in the city, a new city payroll tax and an increase in the property tax. He is also considering layoffs of 15,000 city workers.
Such decisions at the state and local level in many ways make it only more difficult for the politicians in Washington to square their own books. Lawmakers who know their constitutents are already facing higher sales, income and excise taxes to pay for services back home are especially uncomfortable at the prospect of imposing additional Federal levies, particularly on items like gasoline and home heating oil, both of which were part of the defeated budget package.
The alternative, of course, would be deeper cuts in spending programs, but the single most unpopular item in the compromise was a sharp reduction in Medicare, and budgeteers in both parties are already looking for ways to soften that blow. With the giant Social Security program politically off limits, military spending is the only other area of the budget in which major reductions are a possibility. Most Democrats would jump at that option, but the White House may not be so obliging, particularly with a quarter of a million Americans currently deployed in the Persian Gulf.
And representative democracy makes it hard to say no to any of the competing interests.
''Basically what it comes down to is that Americans want incompatible things - lower taxes and better services, a cleaner environment but less regulation,'' said Professor Jacobson. No politician understood that better than Lyndon B. Johnson, who delivered both guns and butter. ''Lyndon Johnson can be pegged as a starting point for failing to level with the American people, to tell them that there's a price,'' Professor Jacobson said. ''And the stalemate now is our own inability to make the decisions one way or the other. We want all the benefits without paying the costs.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); VETO (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); BALLOTS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); COUPS (69%); REFERENDUMS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); JACOBSON, GARY (PROF); RASKY, SUSAN F GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



229 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 3122 words

HEADLINE: Patience in the Persian Gulf, Not War

BYLINE: By Zbigniew Brzezinski; Zbigniew Brzezinski was national security adviser in the Carter Administration.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE crisis in the Persian Gulf is the first crisis of the post-cold-war era. Thus, fortunately, it does not pose the danger of a U.S.-Soviet confrontation. Nonetheless, if mishandled, the crisis could prompt devastating consequences for the world economy, perhaps result in massive Arab and American bloodshed, and almost inevitably generate major regional instability throughout the Middle East.
It is thus a crisis that is too serious to be resolved by decisions in one capital alone and too dangerous to be addressed on the basis of hysteria. It calls for thorough strategic consultations among the countries concerned - including, beyond the democratic West, the leaders of moderate Arab countries outraged by Saddam Hussein's aggression - regarding the issues involved, the policies to be pursued and the costs to be assumed. 
As its point of departure, a collective strategic response to the Iraqi challenge must be based on shared perspectives regarding three central concerns:
* It must provide for stable access by the West to reasonably priced oil, which in practical terms means assuring the security of Saudi Arabia and the Emirates from any further Iraqi pressures or aggression;
* It must protect the sanctity of the international order against unilateral use of force, which in practical terms means a satisfactory resolution of the status of Kuwait;
* It must take into account Iraq's significant military arsenal as a longer-term regional security concern. (Additionally, and depending on whether the crisis is resolved peacefully or militarily, the future of Saddam Hussein's personal leadership may have to be addressed by the international community.) All three of these issues involve objectives that are desirable, even though not all of these goals are equally urgent or vital. But there is consensus not only in the West but also among the moderate Arabs regarding the imperative need to deter any Iraqi move against Saudi Arabia.
This objective is so vital to the well-being of the world economy that the United States, rightly and courageously, was prepared to fight even alone. That is why it immediately deployed such large forces to the region. There is little doubt that other states, both Arab and non-Arab, would also join in a common effort if the Iraqi Army were to strike further south.
The consensus is less strong, and strategic options become more divergent, regarding the other two issues. Subtle differences emerge once the surface is scratched as to what precisely should be the international coalition's objectives and how should they be pursued.
 
WHAT IS TO BE DONE?
Broadly speaking, two strategies are emerging. The first favors sustained international pressure on Iraq through the embargo to compel its withdrawal from Kuwait. The alternative - which some favor if peaceful means fail, and some prefer as the more effective solution - involves the use of military power, thereby dealing not only with the issue of Kuwait but also with the challenge posed by the Iraqi military machine. Given the enormous stakes, it is important to assess these alternatives carefully, for their costs and prospects of success differ significantly.
The peaceful coalition strategy will require time to prove itself. It may take months to convince Saddam Hussein that the coalition's unity will survive and that any leakage in the embargo will be insufficient to prevent a massive deterioration in Iraq's economy and social well-being. This will impose major demands on the democratic publics in the West to support the necessary sacrifices and on their leaders, especially in America, to rebut hysterical calls for military action. The approaching Congressional elections in the United States may tempt some to advocate military action in the expectation that the initial surge of patriotic feeling will work to the advantage of the party in power.
A prolonged embargo will also require major economic cooperation among the members of the coalition. Especially important will be the contributions of Japan and Germany, both exceedingly rich countries yet countries that have made a small contribution compared with America's.
There is thus the risk that, in the pursuit of the peaceful and patient strategy, allied unity may come to be strained by increasingly sharp disagreements regarding the distribution of the burdens involved. These disagreements could become especially acrimonious as the recession -in part stimulated by the higher energy costs and other expenses generated by crisis - deepens in the United States.
 
THE RISK OF WAITING
The peaceful strategy, in any case, may also be derailed by developments beyond America's and the international coalition's control. One cannot, for example, preclude attempts at deliberate provocations, designed to inflame American public opinion and to precipitate a military collision between America and Iraq.
Given the bitter personal enmity between the Syrian and Iraqi leaders, or in view of reports of Israeli fears that America may opt for a peaceful outcome to the crisis, not to mention Iranian fundamentalist passions, it is also quite possible that outside parties may set in motion events that derail the peaceful strategy. Last but not least, there is the possibility that Saddam Hussein, fearful of being strangled by the international embargo, will himself initiate hostilities.
Finally, it must be admitted that the peaceful strategy cannot in any case resolve the third issue, that of Iraq's military power; at best it can probably yield only a partial success on the status of Kuwait, a success certainly short of ''unconditional surrender'' by Iraq. More likely, the eventual success of the peaceful strategy will require, at some point, quiet, behind-the-scenes negotiations regarding the issues that precipitated the Iraqi aggression.
In other words, once a sustained embargo had succeeded in convincing Saddam Hussein that he must concede, some confidential discussions, either through Arab intermediaries or perhaps through Soviet ones (and Mikhail Gorbachev deliberately positioned himself in the Helsinki talks with President Bush to be an eventual mediator) would ensue. They would address the adjudication - following an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait - of the Iraqi financial and territorial claims (not all of which were unfounded), which will have to take place.
If much of the international community were willing to accept such an outcome, it would be difficult for the United States alone to oppose it. Moreover, it is likely that by then the peaceful strategy would have imposed substantial financial costs on all parties, even though it would have spared everyone from potentially massive bloodshed. Thus there is bound to be some international predisposition to settle, even if the outcome were to be not quite as unconditional as currently some desire. However, any such outcome would still leave major issues pertaining to regional security and Iraqi military power unresolved.
This is why some argue that the peaceful strategy cannot work and that the crisis must be resolved by force of arms. The peaceful strategy - the critics point out - would resolve satisfactorily the first issue only, the second perhaps partially (and, at best, only after a very prolonged effort), and the third not at all. In contrast, the military strategy would deal with both the second and the third at the same time, while perhaps also enhancing Saudi security for the longer term.
Accordingly, proponents of the military strategy argue that force should be used once the necessary preparations have been completed. Given the pace of the American troop and weapons deployments, that could be as soon as late October (thus before the American Congressional elections) but in any case no later than late winter. The reason for the latter deadline is that the onset of the fierce sandstorms that follow the winter season would adversely affect the technological performance of weapons and impose additional difficulties on the American and other forces not accustomed to desert warfare.
The military option would have to deal simultaneously with the goal of liberating Kuwait and of destroying Iraqi military power for the simple reason that it is not possible to do the first without the second. A conventional ground attack on Kuwait would be prohibitively costly in casualties and perhaps even impossible to execute without a deployment of forces vastly larger than even the currently projected deployment of some 200,000 American troops.
Military action will therefore require an all-out air assault on Iraq's political and military command centers, key military concentrations and principal industrial-military targets, in addition to some unavoidable ground fighting. Particularly intensive efforts will have to be made to destroy, pre-emptively, any Iraqi capacity to retaliate through missile strikes with chemical warheads.
A particular complication pertaining to the air assault is that its effectiveness would be greatest if it came as a sudden bolt out of the blue. But that could only be the case if it was undertaken solely on the American initiative, since only American airpower would be capable of undertaking this task effectively and alone.
The decision to initiate hostilities through a decapitating air attack would thus have to be made solely by Washington, without any genuine consultations with the other powers that are participating in the anti-Iraq coalition, especially Arab ones. That could breed political resentments and even pose the danger that America would eventually find itself increasingly isolated in the world arena.
THERE is also a domestic American complication to be noted here. An American bolt-out-of-the-blue attack would not only strain allied relations. If the resulting hostilities were to become costly and prolonged, the U.S. Congress might be outraged that its constitutional prerogative of declaring of war was not respected. Yet a declaration of war would be incompatible with any surprise attack.
In any case, the military operations, to be effective, will have to combine major air and ground initiatives, the former to paralyze Iraq's capacity to respond and the latter to drive the Iraqis out of Kuwait. The effort will thus have to be massive in scale. It will probably involve the infliction of thousands, and maybe even tens of thousands, of deaths on the Iraqi civilian population.
And it will involve inevitably heavy fighting against an Iraqi Army that is battle-tested and experienced in defensive fighting. Since it is almost certain that the brunt of the military effort would have to be undertaken by American forces, one must expect therefore also thousands of deaths among American servicemen.
One should not entertain in this connection any illusions that air attacks by themselves will force the Iraqis to capitulate. Total and prolonged U.S. control over the air did not terminate promptly the Korean and Vietnam Wars, nor did it force either Germany or Italy to capitulate. Moreover, it is not possible to predict precisely what course the combat will take and how long it will last. Iraq is not a Panama. The fighting could prove to be heavy and prolonged.
Moreover, even massive air attacks may be unlikely to deprive Saddam Hussein of some capacity to react. One cannot exclude the possibility of sporadic Iraqi gas attacks on Israeli cities and perhaps even a deliberate invasion of Jordan, in an effort to widen the war by drawing in the Israelis. That then could have the effect of transforming the war, in Arab perceptions, into a struggle against an American-Israeli coalition.
Not only the military but also the geopolitical dynamics are unpredictable. At some point the war could also expand in other directions. Syria, Iran and even Turkey (following perhaps a Kurdish uprising within northern Iraq) might all be tempted to pursue their own territorial interests. Iraq might be partitioned; Jordan might be the victim of an Iraqi or Israeli military initiative; and the entire region subsequently Lebanized.
The conflict would thus become regionally destabilizing, on a scale that is difficult precisely to define but that could become also impossible to contain. Moreover, if Arab emotions were to become aroused by military action against Iraq that is seen as largely American in origin, the ensuing radicalization of the Arab masses could eventually even produce upheavals in those more moderate Arab states that the United States is currently seeking to protect.
 
THE COST OF WAR
All of that could produce potentially devastating economic consequences. One would have to anticipate the serious possibility of at least a temporary cutoff in much of the flow of oil from the Persian Gulf. Military action would probably result in the destruction of most of Kuwait's and Iraq's oil facilities, while sabotage could also affect the installations in other gulf states. The price of oil could easily climb to $65 per barrel or even more.
The financial costs of the war by themselves would also be extraordinarily high. It has been estimated that for the United States the costs of large-scale combat could amount to about $1 billion per day. An economic and financial world crisis might thus prove difficult to avoid.
It is hard to predict whether the American public, after the likely initial surge in patriotic emotions, would long support such an operation. Parents and others would almost certainly begin to ask whether American lives should be sacrificed for the sake of the wealthy rulers of Kuwait. Arguments about the sanctity of the international order might cease to have much appeal once American fatalities begin to rise into the thousands. There is also the risk that at some point the public might blame Israel for allegedly having pressed America to go to war against Iraq for the sake of Israeli interests.
The military strategy thus suffers from fundamental liabilities. Its costs could prove to be prohibitive, its success is not easy to define in terms of the time involved and the scope of the required effort, and its dynamic consequences, could have a regionally destructive ripple effect.
On balance, therefore, the better part of wisdom is for the existing international coalition to pursue the strategy of sustained pressure, and to apply that pressure under the protection of credible military power that deters any Iraqi military countermoves. To put it simply, a policy not of preventive war but of punitive deterrence is the most sensible.
That strategy must be given time to prove effective, and it must be openly conceded that its success may not be compatible with the notion of an Iraqi unconditional surrender regarding Kuwait. More specifically, one should not rule out a priori the acceptability of some arrangement that combines an Iraqi withdrawal with the eventual adjudication of the financial and territorial issues that precipitated the unacceptable act of Iraqi aggression. Nor should quiet mediation by some third parties, either by the Arabs themselves or by the Europeans (such as President Mitterrand), or even perhaps by the Soviets, be discouraged.
As noted, a nonviolent resolution of the Kuwait issue will not resolve the region's security problem. In any case, for some time to come, to insure longer-range regional security, some separate American-Saudi military arrangements will be required.
These might include some provision for the continuing presence of an American security tripwire in Saudi Arabia, designed to insure against any future Iraqi aggression. American naval and air offshore power will probably also have to be enhanced on a continuing basis. At a later stage, it might then prove possible to convene an international conference that deals with the wider issue of regional security. In that setting, the destabilizing and unacceptably ambitious Iraqi military programs could be subjected to some agreed limitations.
In the context of any eventual regional accommodation regarding security, it will probably also be necessary for Israel to finally accept the nonproliferation treaty and to place its own nuclear weapons program under some similar restraints.
OBVIOUSLY, the resolution of these tangled and complex issues will require prolonged negotiations. For these negotiations to succeed, some progress toward peace on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict may also be needed, given the obvious connection between Israeli and Iraqi military buildups and the persisting possibility of renewed Israeli-Arab hostilities. But all of that represents an agenda for the more distant future. The wider issue of regional security and the Israeli-Arab conflict cannot be and should not be linked directly to the current, more immediate crisis.
To be sure, there are those who argue that Saddam Hussein's military potential must now be pre-emptively destroyed before he acquires nuclear weapons. But the advocates of preventive war, for some of whom the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait is a convenient excuse, have yet to make a compelling case in terms of the American national interest for such a reckless undertaking.
America has lived for 40 years under the shadow of Soviet nuclear weapons, and Stalin or Khrushchev had no compunctions about killing those weaker than themselves. But deterrence worked, and America surely has the power to deter Iraq as well. And so does Israel, which has already acquired nuclear weapons.
The bottom line is this: there is no easy solution to the crisis. The peaceful strategy of sustained pressure suffers from obvious limitations and has its costs. Moreover, it will not resolve fully all of the central problems generated by the Iraqi aggression. But it imposes enormous punitive pains on Iraq, at a cost and a risk to America that is incomparably lower than the costs and risks of preventive war.
Hence patience and prudence are to be preferred over the leap into the abyss of warfare. The basic fact is that the overall situation in the region is so unstable that no military solution can be confidently postulated as assuring the productive termination of the ongoing crisis at a cost that is predictable and reasonable. Destroying Iraq but possibly blowing up the Middle East can hardly be advocated as a rational calculus.
Given the stakes, it is particularly urgent that the leaders of the advanced democracies - with America having already successfully assured the deterrence of further Iraqi aggression - sit down together, carefully analyze their options and recommit themselves to a sustained strategy of punitive deterrence - without dangerous illusions about military solutions.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (94%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 



230 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: An Age of Business Opportunity Dawns in East Germany

 BODY:
To the Editor:
After returning this week from the latest of a series of business trips to East Germany to identify and assess potential business ventures for my company, I found your front-page article on the East German economy (Sept. 20) to be true, without being accurate. You seem to suggest that joint ventures and other business arrangements that were hastily arranged when the Berlin Wall fell last year are now going sour because the infrastructure and economy of East Germany are far worse than the West imagined.
However, you fail to mention that everyone knew that the viability of these arrangements was uncertain when they were made. Many early agreements are being abandoned because the economic climate is yielding even better deals. 
You also fail to mention the market opportunities opening for American businesses wise enough to enter the market before these opportunities are lost in a unified German economy. Businesses that wait even two to three years will miss the opportunity of the decade to develop and exploit international markets that will carry them well into the next century.
Our contacts with East German ministers, local government officials, formerly state-owned enterprises and individual entrepreneurs all show an economy ripe for new industries and a country willing to be flexible in concessions to attract foreign businesses and investment.
Moreover, many East Germans privately believe that many West German businesses have delayed moving forward while they wait for viable companies to go out of business, thus allowing them to be purchased far below their value.
To say that the East German economy is not as well developed as the West German economy misses the point. There is, and will be, high unemployment. That many formerly state-owned enterprises will not survive in their present form is not an indication that the climate for foreign investment is bad. On the contrary, this environment opens market opportunities for American and foreign companies willing to act quickly.
The question is which companies will exploit the new market openings and ride the East German market boom of this decade into the next century. American companies that wait will face a unified German market, a unified European Community and a transformed Eastern European market dominated by businesses that saw this opportunity and acted early.
 
KEITH CALHOUN-SENGHOR
 Washington, Sept. 21, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: CALHOUN-SENGHOR, KEITH



231 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 3, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Early Signs of Air Fare Wars Within Europe

BYLINE: Eric Weiner; Eric Weiner covers transportation for The New York Times.

 BODY:
A New York investment banker, Hugo Heath, says he hasn't recovered yet from his flight from Amsterdam to Copenhagen last month. While the flight wasn't extraordinary, the price tag certainly was. Mr. Heath paid $700 round trip for the one-hour flight - $150 more than his discount round-trip ticket from the United States to Europe. ''It was totally outrageous,'' he said. ''But I was trapped.'' While bargain-basement air fares from the United States to Europe have been plentiful for years, fares on the Continent can be more expensive than a suite at the George V. With airlines shielded from competition by trade agreements that assure virtual monopolies on many routes, European carriers have been free to charge exorbitant fares.
But all of that may change soon. Industry analysts and consumer groups are optimistic that as trade barriers collapse in Europe in 1992, air fares will fall as well, as airlines slug it out in fare wars like those spawned by deregulation in the United States in 1978 (although the European battles will probably be less brutal).
Indeed, cracks are already beginning to appear in the wall. Flights between some cities, like London and Amsterdam, are already virtually deregulated, and, predictably, fares on those routes are lower than elsewhere in Europe. New airlines are cropping up, and carriers are flying to smaller cities and less crowded airports, not just the traditional gateways like London and Paris. 
''There is certainly a more competitive spirit than there was a few years back,'' said John Parr, head of Britain's Air Transport Users Committee, a consumer organization based in London.
''You have a wide range of fares, increased choice of service and a lot of better deals for people who shop around for them,'' said Geoffrey Lipman, managing partner of Global Aviation, a consulting firm based in Washington.
Still, fares on many routes remain high. And the consumer bonanza predicted by some advocates of Europe 1992 may not fully materialize. The fine points of deregulation have yet to be hammered out, and government-owned flagship airlines may be reluctant to relax their grip on competition. Currently, governments, in bilateral agreements and through meetings of the International Air Transport Association, tightly control the fares that airlines may charge and even the number of flights to and from their countries.
In addition, air-traffic congestion at airports in cities like Frankfurt and London make it difficult for upstart carriers to gain a foothold. And since airlines pay more for fuel, labor and air-traffic control in Europe, the peanut fares that delighted consumers in the United States in the early 1980's, will probably never take hold on the Continent. Searching Out a Bargain That said, there are still many ways for the savvy consumer to find bargains before 1992. Many of the cheapest fares between European cities are available only in Europe, so it often makes sense to buy your ticket overseas. At least one travel agent, DMS Travel in New York, offers some clients a refund on tickets purchased in the United States if they find a better deal overseas.
London, Amsterdam and Athens are the best cities in which to find discount fares within Europe. In particular, London has the most bucket shops, or low-overhead ticket consolidators, and Margaret Thatcher's free-market politics has nurtured a number of fledgling airlines.
''The British, under Margaret Thatcher, have gone further toward liberalization than any European government,'' said Ed Perkins, editor of the Consumer Reports Travel Letter. For instance, Air Europe, until recently a small charter airline, is now Britain's second-largest international carrier behind British Airways, with 300 flights a week. The airline calls itself ''the first truly pan-European airline.'' Unburdened by the high operating costs of the industry giants, the spunky carrier is able to offer lower fares. ''They're giving us a good run for our money,'' said John Lampl, a spokesman for British Airways in New York.
In what many see as a model for Europe 1992, Britain and the Netherlands signed an agreement in 1985 that allows airlines serving the two countries to fly when they want and charge whatever fare they like. Similar agreements were drawn up for flights from Britain to Ireland and Belgium.
''There is little incentive to reduce fares if there is no competition,'' said Alex McWhirter, an editor at Business Traveler, a London-based publication. ''It takes another airline to ruffle the feathers of the big boys.''
Still, fares on these newly deregulated routes are comparatively higher than fares for similar distances in this country because of factors like higher fuel costs and fees for air-traffic control. (In the United States, air-traffic control is provided by the Government at no charge to the airlines, whereas in Europe individual airlines are assessed for air-traffic control operations.) As one example, an unrestricted one-way fare from London to Amsterdam, a distance of 217 miles, costs $171, while a ticket from New York to Washington, 215 miles, costs $119. The conversion of prices to dollar amounts was made in the last week of September, but fares are still likely to change because of currency fluctuations.
Along with offering lower fares on some routes, more European airlines are flying to more out-of-the-way destinations, as government restrictions are relaxed. For instance, flights to Cologne, West Germany, and Birmingham, England, are on the rise, and Stansted Airport, 30 miles northeast of London, is fast becoming an alternative to the crowds at Gatwick and Heathrow.
Slade Travel, based in London, uses what it calls creative pricing to offer low intra-European fares. Like ticket consolidators in this country, Slade buys large quantities of seats on airlines and sells them to consumers at substantial discounts. In fact, some of the agency's fares are below the lowest published economy excursion tickets. Often, the tickets are sold on non-European airlines. For example, Slade offers flights from London to Paris on Air-India for about $130, provided the tickets are purchased two weeks in advance. Other destinations include Amsterdam ($135), Cairo ($390), Madrid ($165) and Geneva ($135.) Slade's customers include not only bargain-hunting vacationers but also executives from corporations like Pepsi-Cola and Du Pont. In fact, a good share of its business comes from Americans traveling abroad, who can arrange to have prepaid tickets waiting for them in London. (Slade Travel can be reached from the United States by dialing 011-44-81-202-0111 or by writing to 417 Hendon Way, Hendon, London NW4 3LH, England.) Keep in mind that tickets bought through bucket shops are usually nonrefundable and may carry length-of-stay or day-of-week restrictions. In addition, although Slade does accept credit cards, some bucket shops do not. Charter Flights Charter flights are another way to save money. While most fares within Europe are still government regulated, the charter business is immune from such restrictions and now accounts for about half of the air traffic within Europe. Although many charter airlines fly to European sun spots (southern Spain, Portugal, Greece and Turkey), there are numerous flights to capitals like Rome and Vienna. Travel agents are required to sell land accommodations as part of a charter package, but most deftly get around this by offering such inexpensive extras that clients don't mind throwing them away.
Sometimes, the best way to save on air fares in Europe is to take the train. Europe has a vast rail network, so it may make sense to fly to a major city, then take a train to your final destination. For instance, if you are traveling from London to Pisa, it is cheaper to fly to Rome - a fairly competitive air route - and then take a two-and-a-half-hour train ride to Pisa. The saving over the $262 cost of flying directly to Pisa is about $52 for first-class train travel from Rome, $63 for second class.
In addition, many travel agents recommend buying an open-jaw ticket. An example would be a ticket from New York to London, with a return flight to New York from Paris. The customer could then fill the open London-to-Paris leg with a discount ticket purchased in Europe.
Meanhwile, with a free-market Europe still more than a year away, some airlines are already undercutting their competition on some regulated routes. The regulators, it seems, are looking the other way. ''It isn't easy for the authorities to act as a wet blanket,'' said Vagn Soerenson, marketing chief in Europe for Scandinavian Airlines. ''Everybody is already mentally prepared for the coming single market.''

GRAPHIC: Table listing European airfares

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (93%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); 

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NYTRAVEL; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FARES; DISCOUNT SELLING AIR FARES (93%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); 

PERSON: WEINER, ERIC MARGARET THATCHER (55%); 



232 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 17, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Europe for Less: It Can Be Done

BYLINE: By Alan Riding

 BODY:
By now, everyone must know that Europe is expensive. Americans coming home with empty pockets from European vacations this summer have spread the word. Everything, truly everything, is cheaper in the United States, they report, so be warned. Those heading for Europe this fall have a choice: spend more than you expect or enjoy a more modest vacation. 
Yet hearing the stories does not always mean coming prepared for the inflated price of hotels, meals, clothes and transportation in most Western European cities. Even a coffee and a snack in Paris or Rome lose their appeal when the cost in francs or lire is translated into $10 or so. And by nightfall it is time to change more dollars.
The dollar, the once-great dollar that not many years ago was revered and coveted throughout Europe, is of course the culprit. Over the past year its value against most European currencies has fallen by 20 percent or more. So it's really very simple: even if a price in German marks or Spanish pesetas is unchanged, it now takes that many more dollars to pay it.
But Europe has also done its bit. Inflation in the 12 countries of the European Community is officially running at 5.7 percent a year, but it is far from that modest when it comes to hotels and restaurants. Western Europe has been splurging in prosperity over the past five years and, as conspicuous luxury has increased, so have many prices.
Travelers who insist on only the best - the five-star hotel, the three-star restaurant and the one-of-a-kind haute couture dress - must therefore brace for the severest punishment. They, of course, might not notice. But the middle-income tourist who wanders into a Parisian brasserie must also be ready to pay the equivalent of $150 to $200 for dinner for two with wine. And the story is little different in Rome, Madrid or London.
The strategy, then, is to come prepared, not only with traveler's checks and credit cards at the ready, but also with a spending plan that must start with picking a reasonably-priced hotel. Menus, of course, can also be perused outside most restaurants to forestall a shock, while fixed-price dinners with several choices often offer the best value for money.
Public transport in most European cities is good - and safe - so taxis can usually be avoided. In Paris, the clock starts at the equivalent of $1.80 and then moves faster than the traffic, but it costs only $1.05 to cross the city by subway. And when it comes to clothes, window-shopping may be the answer. Where clothes are cheap, better quality is probably available at the same price in the United States.
Yet bargains do exist if you know where to find them. And correspondents from The New York Times in 10 European cities have been out looking for them - for the charming hotel at under $100 a night for two, for the memorable meal at under $25 a person and for the many pleasures of Europe that still come free of charge. Following are their reports.

GRAPHIC: Table listing the price of a cup of cappuccino for selected cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (69%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; PRICES TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (76%); HAUTE COUTURE (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN



233 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 3, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory

 BODY:

New Tours In Hawaii To View Lava
The seven-year eruption of the Kilauea Volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii has caused damage estimated at $61 million, but it has also provided a boost to the tourism industry. There has been a substantial rise in the number of visitors to the island this year, and tour companies have devised ''volcano specials'' that give tourists a close-up of the lava flow from the ground or the air. Attendance in Volcano National Park, about 30 miles south of Hilo, was up about by 9 percent through July over the corresponding period last year, when the total number of visitors was 2.3 million.
In August, lava flows from the Kilauea crater destroyed the black sand beach at Kaimu and the nearby Harry K. Brown Beach Park. Surfing has been wiped out on the west side of the bay in front of the beach, and while the eastern side can still be surfed, there is no beach to land on. Drain Pipes, which had been one of the most popular surfing spots on the island, was also inundated. The spectacle of steam from lava flowing into the sea at Kaimu attracts many sightseers. 
One tour operator that has seen business increase this year is Akami Tours, a Honolulu-based company, which offers one-day trips in 13-passenger vans. Its Volcano Circle Island Tours, from any of the other islands, costs $123 a person or $99 for the elderly plus a $5 fuel surcharge, for the round-trip flight to the Big Island and the lava tour. For visitors already on the Big Island the charge is $43.50. Akamai added seven vans in June, giving it a fleet of 19, because of the extra business. Information: 800-922-6485.
Volcano Heli Tours (808-967-7578) operates 45-minute tours that go above the volcano and toward the beach at Kaimu. It charges $125 a person. Since Heli Tours started in 1985, it has been joined by eight other companies offering helicopter tours.
 
The Dorchester Will Reopen
The Dorchester Hotel in the Mayfair district of London will reopen in mid-November following the completion of a two-year, $115 million renovation.
Improvements to the 59-year-old hotel include the installation of air-conditioning, a new kitchen and the construction of a health club, nightclub and a new restaurant serving Oriental cuisine.
The number of rooms has been reduced, to 260 from 280, to enlarge smaller rooms and add second bathrooms to suites.
In addition to the new construction, many of the hotel's historic features have been restored, including the oak paneling in the Oliver Messel suites and the gold-leaf moldings and cornices in the promenade, ballroom and terrace.
Rates (calculating the pound at $1.90) range from about $342 a night for single occupancy in a regular room to $1,900 for the Terrace Suite, which features hand-painted murals, a rooftop garden and a view of Hyde Park.
The Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1A 2HJ (71-629-8888).
 
Swiss Special
Travelers who fly round trip on Swissair from New York, Boston or Chicago to Austria, France, West Germany, Italy or Switzerland through Dec. 15 - there are some blackout dates - are eligible for a free Kemwell rental car for one week. The offer applies to two passengers traveling together and is good for a subcompact like a Fiat Panda. Passengers traveling alone pay a supplement, and large cars are available for a surcharge. Departures must be Sunday through Thursday and return travel must be Monday through Friday. Information: 800-678-0678.
 
ROOMS FOR $24 A NIGHT IN FRANCE
One solution for those trying to travel in France on a budget, despite the stronger franc, is the chain of hotels called Formule 1, which has basic furnishings in rooms for up to three people. The group describes itself as the least expensive in the country and at about $24 a night for three (calculating the dollar at five francs), one would find it difficult to do much better, though charm is not the chain's strong suit.
The hotels are built from prefabricated units that are assembled on the spot. Each air-conditioned, soundproof room is identical: about 90 square feet and including double bed, single bunk bed, sink, desk, chair, closet and television set with built-in alarm clock. One bathroom (with shower but not bath) is allotted to every three rooms. The shower is cleaned by an automatic system after each use. The Formule 1 hotels can be found on the outskirts of cities, near airports and highways.
There are 27 in the suburbs of Paris, 150 throughout the rest of France and 4 in Belgium. More are scheduled for Britain and West Germany.
The group is part of Accor, a French hotel and restaurant company that recently purchased Motel 6, the Dallas-based chain of economy motels in 42 states.
A brochure listing each hotel's location and telephone number is available in each hotel or can be had by writing to: Chaine des Hotels Formule 1, B.P. 159, 93163 Noisy-le-Grand, France.
At each hotel a receptionist is on duty from 6:30 to 10 in the morning and from 5 to 10 in the evening; outside these hours guests have access to their rooms by using a Visa card in an automatic teller that provides a code number. (Visa is the only credit card accepted.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Formule 1 hotel. (Accor); Map of hawaii showing locations of Kaimu Beach and Harry K. Brown Beach Park. Table listing rates at European chain hotels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (98%); 

CITY: HILO, HI, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: AKAMI TOURS (86%); DORCHESTER HOTEL (62%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ISLANDS & REEFS (91%); BEACHES (90%); SURFING (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LODGING (77%); TOURISM (72%); HELICOPTERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); BUILDING RENOVATION (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 



234 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 10, Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: WHY AMERICA FAILS ITS CHILDREN

 BODY:
Small-scale local programs for troubled families, like the ones in Tacoma, Wash., and in New Haven, certainly should be encouraged. However, the leadership and resources needed to make a substantial start on these problems must come from the Federal Government. 
Other countries have had the good sense to mount such efforts. The French have an ambitious and expensive program of child welfare, which includes income supplements for all families with children and special public clinics that take care of pregnant women and preschool children. Medical exams and shots are not only free - they are mandatory, and the clinics are on the lookout for cases of possible child abuse. The French Government also runs nursery schools of high quality that are free to parents. The French programs are used by families from high-, middle- and low-income groups.
In this country, we would have to spend $30 billion to $50 billion a year to launch child-welfare programs on the scale the French have undertaken.
 
BARBARA R. BERGMANN
Distinguished Professor
of Economics
The American University
 Washington

GRAPHIC: Photo of impoverished child. (Nubar Alexanian/Woodfin Camp)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (87%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 



235 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 66, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Design;
Risky Business

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:
As showrooms are being readied for the international Home Furnishings Market in High Point, N.C., talk in the industry centers around the poor housing market, slow sales in retailing and the uncertain economy in general. ''Most manufacturers are running scared because business has been so bad,'' says Carl Levine, senior vice president of home furnishings at Bloomingdale's. ''Conservative styling and keeping prices down are very important now. Personally, though, I'd like to see some creativity for a change.'' 
But creativity means taking risks, something few manufacturers are willing to do this fall. Indeed, when the largest wholesale furniture fair in the nation opens for nine days on Oct. 18, experts are predicting a dull show. ''There's a cautious feeling in the air,'' says John Mascheroni, a furniture designer for Swaim and for Jeffco. ''Buyers coming to High Point don't have the money to spend, so manufacturers are purposely holding back.''
Still, there are a few adventurous ones. ''Unlike the others, we're going to be extremely agressive,'' says Ben Dawkins, vice president of marketing for the Hickory Chair Company. The company is adding 20 new pieces to its Historical James River Plantations Collection, a group of about 400 reproductions of furniture found in the plantation homes along the James River in Virginia. The collection, which includes Queen Anne, Chippendale, Hepplewhite and Sheraton designs, marks its 50th anniversary this year.
Paul Hanson, another brave manufacturer, has hired Vicente Wolf, a New York interior designer, to create a 16-piece line of lamps, many of them whimsical. ''Because of these tougher economic times,'' Wolf says, ''designers have to learn that people can't totally redo their homes. We have to introduce pieces that can work in existing environments.'' At the same time, designers must also continue to be innovative, Wolf says, adding: ''High Point needs to get out of the past and deal with the present.''
Mascheroni agrees, and his own furniture designs prove the point. His inspiration is the work of the contemporary Italian avant-garde. Mascheroni's upholstered pieces for Swaim, for example, have exaggerated curves, strong colors and exposed wood legs, all reminiscent of 1950's designs. ''This is a climate where one dares to be different,'' he says. ''It's a great time to test the waters. And I'm hoping that by making a splash we'll pick up what little business there is.''

GRAPHIC: Drawings: In his new line of lamps for Paul Hanson, Vicente Wolf, an interior designer, used images from nature. One example. An Empire-style mahogany sleigh bed, above, is included in the Historical James River Plantations Collection by the Hickory Chair Company. The chair, above, created by the furniture designer John Mascheroni for Swaim, was inspired by the contemporary Italian avant-garde. The desk, left, is part of the new Perimeter Collection created by the interior designer Jay Spectre for the Century Furniture Company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HICKORY CHAIR CO (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HIGH POINT (NC)

SUBJECT: HOME FURNISHINGS REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



236 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Pirates' Owners Pleading Poverty

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN

 BODY:
The Pittsburgh Pirates won a division title and set an attendance record this season. But financially, the Pirates' management says, the team is languishing in the second division, and could actually suffer from rather than be helped by its success.
With total revenue of about $44 million, the team had lost $5 million this year as of Sept. 18, its owners say, and will at best break even if it wins the National League Championship Series and goes on to the World Series.
What particularly concerns the nine Pittsburgh-based companies that bought the Pirates in 1985 is that because several of the team's young stars had outstanding seasons and will be eligible to move to other teams as free agents in the next few years, they are likely to press for far larger salaries. (Players with more than six years' experience in the major leagues can sign with any team.) The Pirates' management, which is chosen by a board on which the nine owning companies are represented, says it is afraid it can't afford to re-sign young stars like Bobby Bonilla and Barry Bonds and may lose them to wealthier teams in larger markets with more lucrative local broadcasting contracts. The team's owners say they will not tolerate further financial losses. 
''I'd hate to see this game become a game of migration,'' said Douglas D. Danforth, the former chairman of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation who serves as the Pirates' chairman. (The Pirates' owners include Westinghouse, the USX Corporation and PNC Financial.) The owners' complaint - that teams in smaller markets cannot compete on equal economic footing with those in larger ones - is hardly new. What is striking is that the theme is being sounded by a team that has had such a successful season. The city's population dropped 14 percent, to 370,000, in the last decade. According to preliminary 1990 census data, about 2.2 million people live in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area, down from about 2.4 million in 1980.
But others say that if the Pirates have financial problems, management is to blame.
Donald Fehr, the head of the players' union, says that baseball is a profitable business and that many teams in small markets are doing better than they let on. He said the Pirates' possible loss of young stars reflects the failure of management to sign them to long-term contracts before the players built strong bargaining positions. ''That's going to cost them,'' Fehr said.
Baseball teams are not publicly owned and have no obligation to release financial data. That has been a sore point with the players' union, which has argued that owners selectively release numbers that make their plight seem far worse than it is.
But the owners say the Pirates have been losing money for years and posted an $8 million loss in 1985 that helped pave the way for the team's sale. The team says it had a small profit in 1988 but lost money in 1989.
In the current year, the Pirates say, revenues of about $44 million include nearly $14 million from Major League Baseball's contracts with CBS and ESPN (in which the 26 teams share equally); about $5 million from local television, cable and radio rights, and $15 million in ticket sales. Concession sales and parking also provide revenue.
The team's costs are harder to gauge. The owners say that the players' payroll is about $16 million, that minor league operations cost $6 million to $7 million and that the team is liable (like other major league teams) for a one-time multimillion-dollar payment - the exact amount is unknown - as a result of an arbitrator's finding that team owners colluded to restrain salaries offered free agents.
Other costs include travel, putting on games, advertising and marketing, and taxes. The Pirates say these costs are sufficiently high to preclude any profit.
The Pirates' payroll, which rose from $12 million last year, could go as high as $22 million should Bonds and other young teammates be re-signed at market value, the management says. Bonds, the Pirates' left fielder and a candidate for the National League's Most Valuable Player Award, will become a free agent at the end of the 1992 season. He earns $850,000 a year, and players with statistics like his this season - 33 home runs, 114 runs batted in and a .301 batting average - are signing for contracts for $3 million to $5 million annually.
Clearly, playing in a smaller city does not mean that an organization cannot afford to build a winning team. Indeed, the teams in the National League playoffs this week - the Pirates and the Cincinnati Reds - come from the 16th- and 29th-largest broadcast markets, respectively. Meanwhile, some of the weaker teams in baseball, including the New York Yankees and California Angels, play in some of the largest markets.
The owners of the Pirates and other teams from smaller cities are calling for an overhaul of how Major League Baseball does business. They say they cannot remain economically viable in the face of rising salaries. Teams in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and other large cities have much greater revenue from local cable and broadcasting, which permits them to more easily pay multimillion-dollar salaries and still make money - even without on-field success.
''The Yankees get $50 million a year in local TV revenue and Pittsburgh gets $5 million,'' Danforth said. ''That would be fine if there was some restraint on how the Yankees could spend that money.''
In an earlier effort to control salaries, baseball owners agreed to refrain from hiring one another's best players. But in 1987, an arbitrator ruled that the owners were colluding to violate their contract with the players.
Danforth and some other baseball owners would like to limit player salaries by linking them to revenue. The players' union objected and the proposal was put aside in negotiations earlier this year.
The players union and the owners agreed earlier this year to a yearlong study of baseball's economics, which the owners hope will convince the union that keeping salaries in line with revenues will benefit both sides.
Fehr, who is participating in the study, said he was skeptical. ''I don't think any team is in dire financial straits,'' he said. Indeed, a team as good as the Pirates are this year may sell many more season tickets next year and have a higher per-game attendance. That, in turn, would produce more revenue at concession stands and parking lots. This year's attendance - 2.05 million - was up from 735,900 in 1985, the year the team was sold.
And success on the field might also translate into larger radio and television audiences, which would enable the team to negotiate higher fees for the rights to its games.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas D. Danforth, chairman of the Pirates, at Riverfront Stadium before Game 1 of the National League playoff in Cincinnati. (Associated Press for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (66%); CBS (NYSE) (66%); X (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS811118 OTHER AUTOMOTIVE MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (66%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (66%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (66%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CO LLC (66%); MARATHON OIL CORP (66%); CBS CORP (66%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (66%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS) BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CENSUS (65%); CITY LIFE (62%); CITIES (62%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



237 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: Middletown

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
Before the Colonies became the United States, Middletown was a major port city on the Connecticut River, its deep, wide channel accommodating ships bound for China, the West Indies, Europe and Africa. Shipping, shipbuilding and farming made it one of the richest communities in the region.
Industrialization replaced shipping in the 1800's and subdivisions replaced farms in the 1900's. But with the 1970's exodus to the Sunbelt, the city declined.
Then, in 1984, the Aetna Insurance Company built its employee-benefits division in the north end, bringing 3,000 employees and new hope to Middletown. Developers put up 3,500 units of moderately priced condominiums and rentals between Interstate 91 and Route 217. With housing costs rising in Hartford and its suburbs, young professionals flocked to the new developments. 
In the last 10 years, the town's population, now 47,000, has increased by 11 percent. Hundreds of moderately priced single-family homes have gone up, tipping the tax base from commercial to residential. The resulting increase in homeowners' real-estate taxes was cushioned by spreading it over five years.
''Now, when things look bleakest in many areas, we are seeing business up and a revitalization of the town,'' said Mayor Paul Gionfriddo.
Lawrence McHugh, director of the Middlesex Chamber of Commerce, based in Middletown, said unemployment was just over 3 percent, below state levels. ''We have a good mix of service and high-tech manufacturing,'' he said.
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft employs 5,000 people, and the Middlesex Mutual Assurance Company built its new headquarters downtown. A 1.6 million-square-foot office complex off Route 117 has been approved by the town, and more than 30 additional commercial and manufacturing enterprises occupy the northern industrial park west of I-91 and the southeast corner of the town.
In the development boom of the 80's, two downtown blocks were demolished before a coalition of town officials, citizens and preservation agencies decided to preserve the rest of the mile-long, six-lane Main Street. The street is lined with stores owned by the same families for generations, banks, churches and offices and its Victorian buildings are on the National Register of Historic Places.
While speculative residential building has stopped and custom building is slow, four three-bedroom homes on small lots and priced at $129,000 were sold last month from plans at South Farms on Randolph Road. Old Farms, an equestrian subdivision on Atkins Street with a community stable and trails, sold five four-bedroom, custom-built homes, each on an acre and a half, for $290,000 to $500,000.
''Prices are down by 20 percent from a year ago,'' said Enza Cubeta, head of Century 21-Cubeta Realty, ''and are still falling.''
''We got a little gem of a two-bedroom house under $150,000 in a well-kept neighborhood,'' said Sandra Farrell, who moved into it with her husband, Mark, from Guilford last November. ''We didn't see this quality elsewhere and we liked the small city environment.''
 
Mr. Farrell is a physician's associate at a hospital in Hartford. His wife works as a commercial artist in Guilford. Middletown is in the middle.
Middletown had its beginnings in 1614, when Adrian Block, a Dutch navigator, sailed up the Connecticut River and founded a colony known as Mattabeseck, after the Indian tribe that sold him the land. The settlement was taken over by the English and named Middletown in 1653, identifying its location midway between Hartford and Long Island Sound.
''The river creates a great quality of life,'' said Mr. McHugh of the Chamber of Commerce, ''and Wesleyan University is a cultural anchor.'' Among the other amenities are Middlesex Community College and the fully computerized main library.
The Mayor has made reclaiming the river from decades of neglect a priority. ''We lost the riverfront when Route 9 was built in the 60's, cutting it off from the city,'' he said. At Harbor Park, a former yacht club has been converted into a restaurant called America's Cup. Boardwalks and plazas were built for festivals and concerts; excursion boats set out from the dock and on July 4th the area is crowded with people watching fireworks.
To accommodate the city's growth voters will consider a $40 million referendum next month, including provisions for $19 million in school construction, $14 million for an expanded municipal complex and a $7 million cultural center.
A wealth of cultural attractions is available at Wesleyan University and no more than a half hour away in Hartford, New Haven and East Haddam, with its Goodspeed Opera House. But, said Corrine Gill, coordinator of the city's Arts and Culture Commission, ''we need a cultural center to better understand and celebrate our ethnic diversity.''
More than half of Middletown's residents are of Italian origin and most trace their roots to the little mountain town of Mellili in Sicily. ''There are more people from Mellili in Middletown than there are in Mellili,'' said Leonard Marino, a plumbing contractor who arrived here in the early 1900's.
Middletown's eight public elementary schools, two middle schools and one high school accommodate a student population of 5,050, up from last year and expected to increase by 50 to 100 students a year through the next decade. Music and art are integrated into the curriculum from kindergarten through 12th grade.
The system offers all-day kindergarten, a gifted and talented program for grades 3 through 6, advanced placement in science, mathematics and language arts, and compulsory foreign language in grades 7 and 8. The schools operate two drop-off centers for working parents, where children stay from 7 to 8:45 A.M. and from 3:15 to 6 P.M. and are taken to and from school for low fees.
In addition, there is the Vinal Vocational Technical High School, three Roman Catholic elementary schools, a Baptist elementary school and two Catholic high schools.
Wesleyan offers advanced placement courses to selected Middletown High School students, many of whom later attend the university. Founded in 1831 by John Wesley, it has made a point of recruiting an ethnically diverse student body and faculty. The 120-acre downtown campus contains a handsome collection of period buildings, an observatory, a Center for the Arts and a 2.1 million-volume library. Tuition, room and board cost $21,600.
More than a dozen significant Middletown homes built from 1650 to 1850 may be seen on a self-guided walking tour catalogued by the Greater Middletown Preservation Trust, which produced a pictorial history book of the town this year. ''It defines our past and provides a guide for future development on the community's terms,'' said Ann Street, director of the trust.
On some 530 acres of public open space are 14 parks for swimming, picnicking and hiking, six tennis courts, playgrounds and 26 ball fields, including Palmer Field Municipal Stadium, which seats 6,000. More land is to be bought soon with a $5 million green-space fund. Golfers must go to neighboring towns until a 150-acre city-owned tract is developed, and boaters must use launches and yacht clubs in Cromwell and Portland.
The city has many inexpensive restaurants, including several serving Italian food. Among the better establishments is the Middlesex Opera House, which offers continental fare in a converted opera house just off Main Street. After-dinner entertainment is available at the Moviehouse in Waldbaum's Plaza on Route 66.
While many residents would like a department store or two to supplement shopping on Main Street and Washington Street, the city is reluctant to jeopardize its downtown by zoning for a regional mall that might attract a large store. ''We have no mall, and we are not looking for one,'' Mayor Gionfriddo said.
 
Gazetteer
 
Population: 47,000 (1990 estimate).
 
Median household income: $40,000 (1990 estimate).
 
Median single-family house price: $160,000.
 
Property tax on median-priced house: $2,031.
 
Median price of 2-bedroom condominium: $116,000.
 
Median 2-bedroom rent: $650.
 
Public-school expenditure per pupil: $6,016.
 
Distance to midtown Manhattan: 105 miles.
 
Travel to midtown: 15 minutes to Meriden Amtrak station, then 2 1/2 half hours on train, $18 one way; 2-hour drive.
 
Government: Mayor (Paul Gionfriddo, Democrat) and 12-member City Council elected to 2-year terms.
 
Scull Work: As in each October for the last 15 years, rowers in racing sculls will compete today - 2,500 in 500 sculls - in the Head of the Connecticut Regatta. The single-file, 3 1/2-mile downriver course from Cromwell to Middletown will be navigated by one to 8 rowers per scull, setting out at 15-second intervals from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. The regatta is open to all.

GRAPHIC: Town Place condominium under development off Route 217. Olin Memorial Library at Wesleyan University. (John P.Coleman foir The New York Times); Map of Middletown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (57%); PRATT & WHITNEY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLETOWN (CONN)

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); CITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); FAMILY (75%); HOME PRICES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); MAYORS (73%); APPROVALS (67%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 



238 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 12, Column 6; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: East End Avenue

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a former pastor of the Roman Catholic St. Joseph's of Yorkville on East 87th Street, less than two blocks from East End Avenue, I was intrigued more by what was omitted than by what was reported in your article on the East End community on Sept. 2. While area public schools received specific listing and mention was made of independent schools, the St. Joseph's School of my former parish, St. Stephen of Hungary School on East 82d Street and Our Lady of Good Counsel School on East 91st Street were completely left out.
Yet these three elementary schools are remarkably integrated economically, racially, and ethnically. Not too many years ago, a study showed a greater number of students enrolled kindergarten through sixth grade in the area parochial schools than in the area public schools. 
Much closer to East End Avenue than the Hunter College Campus School mentioned in the article is the St. Ignatius Loyola complex on East 84th Street consisting of an elementary school, Loyola High School and Regis - an all-scholarship high school.
While Holy Trinity Episcopal Church on East 88th Street and Temple Sharay Tefila on East 79th Street are properly acknowledged in the article as ''religious centers nearby,'' one can only be puzzled by the total omission of all these Catholic schools and of the three Roman Catholic churches within two blocks of East End Avenue - St. Monica's on East 79th Street, St. Stephen of Hungary on East 82d Street and St. Joseph's on East 87th Street. Three blocks away from East End Avenue is Our Lady of Good Counsel Church on East 90th Street and, on East 83d Street, St. Elizabeth of Hungary, a parish devoted to services and programs for the deaf. St. Joseph's where I was pastor from 1970 to 1982 was and remains a vital religious center in the area.
I can only wonder at the wholesale omission of St. Joseph's and every other Catholic educational and religious institution from what purports to be a profile of a neighborhood that even gets down to naming local coffee shops and Chinese restaurants.
 
MSGR. HARRY J. BYRNE
 Manhattan
 
Monsignor Byrne is pastor of the Roman Catholic Epiphany Church.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ST JOSEPH'S SCHOOL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES RELIGION (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%); DEAFNESS (50%); 

PERSON: BYRNE, HARRY J (MSGR)



239 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Focus: Lake Tahoe;
Resorts' Residential Listings Growing

BYLINE: By Andree Brooks

DATELINE: SOUTH LAKE TAHOE, CALIF.

 BODY:
''Whenever the Bay area gets a cold we get pneumonia,'' observed Doug Rosner, owner-broker of Century 21 South Tahoe Realty.
At present, however, though a weaker real estate market has given the Bay area around San Francisco a cold, there is no evidence of pneumonia here. At Lake Tahoe, which is 200 miles northeast of San Francisco, property prices have held firm, after reaching a peak early this year. Nevertheless, the fear of a downturn has led to an upsurge in property listings in some of the lakeside communities, including this one, brokers report.
But nobody expects values to be as severely hit as they have been on the West Coast or in the Northeast. Environmental concerns for the purity of the lake - folklore suggests that a dinner plate is visible 120 feet below the surface - have so tightly controlled the opportunity for development since 1983 that the supply of homes at any price is limited. 
Further holding off a plunge in prices is the buoyant effect of the foreign money pouring into what has become a world-class resort. ''We've had a strong international market for some time,'' said Adele Lucas, president of the South Lake Tahoe Board of Realtors. ''They hear about us on TV sports, on 'Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous.' '' Typical buyers, she said, are from Japan, Mexico, Europe and South America.
Another factor is what some observers call ''the Nevada card.'' Market conditions on the more steeply sloping Nevada side of the lake seem to mirror the property boom elsewhere in Nevada. And this could further ameliorate the wider chill.
The Lake Tahoe basin encompasses more than 100 square miles over 6,000 feet above sea level. The lake itself is 22 miles long and 12 miles wide, with the border between California and Nevada slicing through its center. Five counties - three in California and two in Nevada - and some 15 towns make up the 71 miles of shore area, which has 72 beaches, 14 marinas and 950 boat slips.
More than a dozen cross-country and downhill ski centers rise from that shoreline, often hidden from view by the dense firs and pines that cover most of the surrounding mountains. Communities run the gamut from exclusive enclaves like Incline Village and Glenbrook on the steeper Nevada side to this one in the relatively flat, more populous area south of the lake.
More than 80 percent of the land area in the lake basin is owned by state or Federal agencies or land conservancies.
Brokers estimate that values at Incline Village are higher right now than anywhere else in the basin. Currently listed for sale there, for example, is a 5.9-acre lakeside estate with a main house, a guest house, a tennis court, 250 feet of beachfront and a pier. The asking price is $12 million, possibly the highest ever.
Moreover, figures compiled by the Incline Village Board of Realtors show that there have been only 425 homes in that village listed for sale to date this year, compared to 547 in September 1989, a 22.3 percent drop.
The numbers represent condominiums, single-family houses and estates, with houses averaging about $380,000 and condominiums around $150,000 each. Prices of comparable properties on the more southerly California shore tend to be 30 percent less.
In this city of 21,000 year-round residents, for example, a 4,600-square-foot Tudor mansion with 100 feet of lakefront in the exclusive Tahoe Keys development carries an asking price of $1.85 million. A few hundred yards inland, in the same complex, a new 2,400-square-foot house is priced at $375,000.
And even here residents are taking no chances. This city is in the initial phase of a $154 million commercial redevelopment plan that is already sweeping away the cheap motels, dilapidated gas stations and tacky retail shacks that gave Route 50 - the main thoroughfare through the town - a shabby look.
''We didn't have the upscale appearance of Vail or Aspen,'' said David G. Dobson, assistant executive director of the South Tahoe Redevelopment Agency. ''So unless we got rid of some of the older facilities and broadened the market we could have been left behind.''
Lake Tahoe's birth as a resort dates to the turn of the century, when some prominent Bay Area families carved huge estates out of the pristine hillside and made it fashionable to spend the summer here. More modest families quickly followed, clearing smaller lots for simpler cabins.
Even today, the resort caters to a vast demographic and economic spread, with vacation homes ranging from a $60,000 co-op to that $12 million estate and with luxury hotels standing side by side with the local Motel 6.
At first, development was heaviest on the more accessible California side, and it catered mainly to that sumnmer crowd. But as winter sports grew in popularity in the 50's, the resort began to capitalize on its superb slope and snow conditions, coupled with long, clear, sunny winter days. Adding to the natural bounty was the growth of the casinos on the Nevada side, which helped draw an even more broadly based crowd.
The housing needs of the growing number of service workers led to heavy demand for modestly priced homes. Cheap rental neighborhoods, many patched together from some of the original cabins, began to spring up and started an outcry for more affordable housing that even today dominates local politics.
But that was not easy to achieve. Worried that pell-mell development was blighting the lake's natural qualities, which was bad for the environment and suicidal for business and jobs, a coalition of local leaders established the bi-state Tahoe Regional Planning Agency in 1969 to impose rigid controls.
The agency now sets strict limits on the number of new homes that may be built each year and on which sites qualify. Today it is considered one of the few regional agencies with sufficent regulatory muscle to override individual state or municipal planning decisions and enforce its own regional plan.
The current program, started in 1986 and ending in 1991, allows for 300 new units a year, said David Ziegler, the executive director. The units are apportioned between the five counties making up the lake area and are generally awarded either by lottery or on a first-come, first-served basis. Only sites that already have an environmental score that puts them in an acceptable development category qualify. What will be permitted after 1991 is not yet decided, Mr. Ziegler said.
Partially as a result, a brisk, albeit controversial, market is developing for the transfer of development rights similar to the trading of air rights in New York City. Builders, for example, will buy an old cabin in a poor location for about $30,000, tear it down and transfer the ''right'' to that unit to a more desirable parcel where they may put up a luxury home many times its size. Or they will become partners with someone who owns land and won an allotment.
Chris Strohm, president of Strohm Construction and president-elect of the South Lake Tahoe Chamber of Commerce, for example, is currently using a client's 1990 allotment to build a four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath, 2,100-square-foot contemporary home on a third of an acre of steep hillside in an inland location here close to the casinos and ski slopes. To be completed in October, its asking price is $265,000, about the same as it might have done a year ago.
For the 90's Mr. Ziegler expects ''a lot more rebuilding and revitalization'' with bigger, more luxurious houses replacing many of the cabins and simpler homes of bygone years. Also, he predicts, dozens of still-vacant home sites are likely to be bought by state, local agencies and land conservancies as building permits become increasingly hard to get.
The much-needed multifamily housing for the service workers is expected to be about a half-hour inland from the protected lake basin, possibly in Douglas County, Nev. The current steel grip on expansion that has protected the lake and helped the resort flourish for more than a decade is unlikely, officials insist, to be loosened in the foreseeable future.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lakeside houses in South Lake Tahoe, Calif. The dwelling at left is selling for $1.8 million. (Andree Brooks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (76%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (74%); INCLINE VILLAGE BOARD (59%); SOUTH LAKE TAHOE BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LAKE TAHOE (NEV); SOUTH LAKE TAHOE (CALIF)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES REAL ESTATE (93%); LAKES (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); PNEUMONIA (78%); BEACHES (76%); MOUNTAINS (76%); SKIING (70%); SKIING FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE



240 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 3, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY Q & A: STANLEY C. VAN NESS;
Acting as the State's 'Efficiency Expert'

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
STANLEY C. VAN NESS is no stranger to state government or to the complexities of the machinery that propels it.
As the Public Advocate for eight years during the administration of Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, Mr. Van Ness witnessed firsthand the delicate balance that must be constantly maintained by public agencies expected to deliver maximum service at minimum expense.
Those eight years as a Cabinet-level official also familiarized Mr. Van Ness with the nuts and bolts of governmental budgets and the sleight of hand sometimes used in preparing them.
Mr. Van Ness's experience has served him well in the months since Gov. Jim Florio chose him as chairman of the Governor's Management Review Commission, a seven-member, ad-hoc body charged with conducting an exhaustive audit of the finances of state government.
Indeed, Mr. Van Ness said recently, ''I know where some of the bones might be buried.'' 
Having established a reputation as a public-minded civil servant while serving as the state's first Public Advocate, and as the state's Public Defender, Mr. Van Ness is perceived by many as well suited for the delicate position of what amounts to the state's official ''efficiency expert.''
The 56-year-old lawyer graduated cum laude from Rutgers College and, after serving five years in the Air Force, graduated cum laude from the Rutgers University Law School. He became law secretary to Judge Sidney Goldman of Superior Court and was later appointed Assistant United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey.
After serving as counsel to Gov. Richard J. Hughes, Mr. Van Ness became the state's Public Defender, and then, in 1974, he became the state's first Public Advocate,a position he held until 1982.
Mr. Van Ness, who lives in Brielle with his wife, Eileen, and children, Brian and Elizabeth, recently joined the law firm of Picco Mack Kennedy Jaffe Perrella & Yoskin in Trenton.
Q. What has the Governor's Management Review Commission been asked to do?
A. We have been asked by the Governor to undertake an operational audit to determine how state government is operating and how it can be made to operate more efficiently and more economically.
Q. What is an operational audit?
A. People traditionally think of an audit as asking the question ''If the assets have been properly added, and the debits properly deducted, do the numbers even out?''
An operational audit, however, goes deeper; it looks at the performance of an organization and the philosophy behind the performance. It asks the questions ''Are they doing any things that they need not do?'' and ''Are they doing well the things that they are supposed to do?''
Q. Where will you be looking?
A. Our goal is to look at those 11 departments of state government that we decided to focus on, and to determine whether the people in this state are getting a dollar's worth of value for a dollar spent. There is no specific amount of money we are seeking to find. Wherever it leads us is wherever we're going, and we hope to call the shots as we see them.
Q. What departments will be audited?
A. We decided to look at human services, environmental protection, corrections, transportation, personnel, community affairs, health, law and public safety, treasury, commerce and banking.
Q. Why were only 11 departments chosen out of the 19 in state government?
A. We chose the ones we thought would give us the biggest bang for the buck. I think we decided not to do all of them purely because of constraints on time and resources. But to say we're looking only at 11 departments is somewhat misleading. We're looking at those 11 departments that spend 70 percent of the state dollars in a direct way. We're also looking at the entire state government in cross-sectional pieces - in areas such as sick leave injury, centralized training and motor vehicle fleet purchases. No department is going unnoticed, but we're focusing our attention on 11.
Q. What about autonomous agencies like the Sports and Exposition Authority and the Turnpike Authority; will you be auditing those?
A. We're not looking at them; they're not within our charge. I suspect someone ought to take a look at them, but we were not given that responsibility.
Q. Doesn't New Jersey already have an official state auditor? Does your job duplicate his?
A. There is a state auditor's office that is a creature of the Legislature. I'm sure that they do what they can do, but I'm not sure that they've ever gone into this kind of in-depth analysis of the effectiveness of specific programs. They can tell you whether people are following the rules, whetherthey're going on trips and haven't accounted for the payment properly and things like that, but they've never had the resources in that office to do the kind of thing that we're able to do with the help of people working from the outside.
Q. Have you set a time limit for the commission to complete its work?
A. I can see the end of this commission's participation probably by the end of this calendar year, but I'm virtually certain that one of our recommendations will be that there be an ongoing effort to conduct this kind of operational review on a regular basis.
Q. But wouldn't that cost additional money?
A. We think that out of the savings that we can find, some portion will be used in an ongoing effort to insure two things: one, that the recommendations that are put in place are in fact implemented, and two, that a continuing analysis be done, perhaps on those agencies that we didn't look at specifically this time.
Q. What happens after the commission makes its recommendations?
A. They would have to be implemented by the Governor; we have absolutely nothing more than an advisory role. We will make our recommendations to the Governor, and he will decide whether they make sense.
Q. Will the Legislature have to approve them as well?
A. Some of them. But most of the things that we're talking about can be done by executive order or even by less formal methods.
Q. Will you issue an interim report?
A. There will be a number of interim reports. We decided that rather than wait until the end of the process and come out with a complete report, we would make recommendations as they developed. We did that for two reasons: first, if something is worth doing, it's worth doing quickly, and secondly, if it's something worth doing it ought to be out there standing on its own merits and not be weighed down by controversial items that may appear in an overall report.
Q. Has the commission made any such interim recommendations?
A. Yes, we gave the Governor one on training about a month ago. He accepted our recommendation and implemented a centralized training program that we predict will save $5 million in the next budget. That's not a lot of money to start with, but it is a start. There are some other recommendations coming down the pike, too. I think we'll have some on how to handle the state automobile fleet in the very near future, and we'll have some recommendations on sick leave and sick leave injury for state employees.
Q. Have you set any monetary goal for the commission?
A. In terms of dollars saved, that's a little hard to say. We weren't given any target, but I suppose I did latch on to the $100 million figure that Assemblyman Haytaian said would be a minimal measure of our success.
Q. But $100 million, though a substantial amount of money, is still less than 1 percent of the entire state budget. What will a $100 million saving mean to taxpayers?
A. Not a great deal. First you have to realize that out of the $12 billion budget, only $4 billion is within state management control; the state really has no direct control over the rest. But even $100 million out of $4 billion is not an astounding number.
But I don't think we can measure success in X number of dollars. I think we can measure it in terms of how creditable a job we've done. If the job is creditable, then in addition to whatever modest savings the taxpayer will receive directly, he will have increased confidence that he's getting his money's worth.
Q. Sometimes, when a state department's budget is cut, the services lost as a result of the cut become an additional burden on local government. What will be done to prevent that?
A. We're not really looking at cuts in that fashion. What we're saying is if a department is spending $2 million on a program, and they could do it just a little more efficiently, then they might get the same results on $1.8 million. So the policy question of whether a service is going to continue to be delivered is really not something that we're focusing on.
Q. How do you think you are being perceived by the people in the departments that you are auditing?
A. We've gotten a great deal of cooperation from them, and from the commissioners of the departments. The people in the departments may feel that they may be injured in someway but, by and large, the cooperation has been very good. So far, they haven't thrown any stones.

GRAPHIC: Photo; Stanley C. Van Ness, formerly the Public Advocate and now chairman of the Management Review Commission (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: FINANCES US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LAWYERS (88%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY; VAN NESS, STANLEY C VAN NESS (93%); 



241 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Foes of Yonkers Housing Threaten Bank Boycott

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
THE threat by opponents of court-ordered low-income housing in Yonkers to picket or boycott any bank that finances the construction has added new complexities to the bitterly disputed project and may force the developers to seek financial assistance from outside the state.
Oscar Newman, the housing expert appointed by the court to assist in the ''remedy'' of earlier discriminatory practices, said that in August Chemical Bank had halted negotiations on a loan to the builder, a New York subsidiary of DeLuxe Homes of Berwick, Penn. Mr. Newman said the reason was that the bank was afraid its Yonkers branch ''would be picketed.''
But a spokesman for Chemical Bank, Kenneth Herz, disagreed with Mr. Newman. Mr. Herz said the bank had, in fact, met with DeLuxe officials to discuss the $16.1 million the builders would need to build the first 142 of 200 town-house style subsidized housing units. But the bank rejected the application, Mr. Herz said, ''based strictly on the basis of prudent banking practice.''
Mr. Newman said Donald Meske, the president of DeLuxe, ''told me on Aug. 7 that Chemical's board had agreed to approve the loan but had not yet defined the terms.'' Mr. Newman said he had also been told by Mr. Meske that the bank had appointed a >real estate lawyer to negotiate terms. 
A week later, Mr. Newman said, ''Mr. Meske said he was told by a vice president of Chemical, Lewis Jones, that the bank would not go through with the loan as planned because they had a branch in Yonkers and they were afraid it would get out that Chemical had made the loan and that the branch would be picketed.''
 
'Absolutely False'
Mr. Herz said that ''we never made a loan commitment'' and that the assertions by Mr. Newman about Mr. Jones were ''absolutely false.''
''Fear of a branch picket was never a consideration,'' he said and added that the matter ''never reached Chemical Bank's board, which had no meetings in the period under question.'' Several attempts to reach Mr. Meske last week were unsuccessful. The delay and the alleged reasons for it have angered Michael H. Sussman, a lawyer for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, one of the plaintiffs in the decadelong discrimination case, and others who had expected to see a groundbreaking this summer.
Mr. Sussman said he had asked the United States Justice Department to look into a possible violation of a Federal law barring banks from denying loans for racial reasons. He also criticized the city's elected officials for creating a climate in Yonkers that ''makes it prudent for Chemical to make the decision it did.''
Mr. Newman, in a letter to Thomas R. deRosa of Beveridge & Diamond, the law firm representing the city, said DeLuxe's negotiations with other banks ''to replace Chemical'' have since become ''increasingly protracted and complex.''
Mr. Newman said that in dealing with First Eastern Bank, a Pennsylvania bank that has worked with DeLuxe in financing other projects, the political aspect of the case remained high on the agenda. ''In discussing the exacting financial conditions that First Eastern Bank was now demanding,'' Mr. Newman said in his letter, ''an attorney from Baker & McKenzie, Jeffrey LeNobel, who was initially involved in representing Chemical Bank, had offered that 'the basic reason Chemical Bank had refused to finance DeLuxe was political.' ''
Mr. Newman, citing a telephone conversation with Mr. LeNobel on Sept. 2, said that ''when I asked him what he meant by 'political,' he replied that Chemical Bank was afraid it was going to lose its major accounts with the city of Yonkers, accounts that would make the loan to DeLuxe comparatively insignificant.''
 
Lawyer Disputes Account
But Mr. LeNobel said that he had had no conversation with Mr. Newman over the Labor Day weekend and that when they had spoken it was not on the subject of Chemical Bank having a Yonkers account. Chemical Bank did not finance the housing loan, he said, ''strictly for economic and business reasons.''
The incident became public just over a week ago when Mr. deRosa, the lawyer representing the city, wrote to Mr. Newman saying that there was ''a story circulating'' that ''an unnamed person, allegedly a city employee, had interfered with the financing'' by threatening ''to remove $300 million in funds from Chemical Bank if the financing was provided to DeLuxe.''
An investigation was conducted by the City Manager, Neil J. DeLuca, who could find no employee who had spoken to Chemical Bank and who said, in fact, that ''no one knew that Chemical was dealing with Deluxe.''
The City Manager further noted that ''the amount of funds the city has with Chemical Bank'' did not exceed ''$3 million to $4 million in a payroll account.''
Where then did the rumor start, and who would do the picketing or organize the boycott, Mr. DeLuca was asked early last week. He replied: ''I just heard Jack O'Toole over the radio saying that the Save Yonkers Federation would picket any bank that funded DeLuxe.''
 
'We Didn't Threaten Them'
Mr. O'Toole, who has headed the struggle by neighborhood groups to bar construction of the subsidized housing, laughed and said: ''It wasn't my idea. We didn't threaten them until after the story came out, although I think we would have gotten around to it.''
''The whole situation is on the verge of being turned out,'' or killed, Mr. O'Toole said, ''because they can't build the housing for financial, legal and environmental reasons.''
He said a major problem in finding a bank to lend DeLuxe the money is that the firm ''formed a shadow corporation, DeLuxe of New York, to bid for the contract, but I understand it has only four employees and no assets.''
''DeLuxe wanted to use the property as collateral,'' Mr. O'Toole said. ''But the city's lawyers say the sites should revert to the city if the developer doesn't finish the work, and not go to the bank. Chemical Bank must have looked at DeLuxe of New York and said, 'They're not worthy of a loan.' ''
The land, still technically the city's property, will be turned over to Deluxe for when the developer obtains the financing to build the public housing and signs a contract with the city. The land would belong to Deluxe during construction and would be turned over to the city's Municipal Housing Authority when construction is completed.
Mr. O'Toole said lawsuits and legal appeals concerning the proposed housing were pending in several areas. One suit, brought by John D'Agnillo, a Yonkers resident, sought to block the housing because it would overburden roads, schools and sewers and cause other environmental damage.
 
Environmental Considerations
A Federal District Court Judge, Charles S. Haight, ruled that city and Federal officials should study the effects of the housing-desegregation plan on the roads and sewer system, but that the study should not delay construction. That ruling is being appealed, based on regulations under the National Environmental Protection Act preventing the start of construction on any project under environmental review.
The city, meanwhile, is appealing a decision by Judge Leonard B. Sand in Federal District Court in Manhattan ordering the city to modify the permit issued by the city transferring the sites to DeLuxe from a designation of ''multifamily'' to ''single-family'' construction, still in the town-house style.
The difference is that a multifamily permit requires more extensive fire protection and accessibility for disabled people. DeLuxe had refused to accept the sites under the multifamily designation.
Mr. O'Toole said another suit would challenge the consent decree, in which the City Council agreed to accept the housing plan, as having been approved under ''duress'' because Councilmen were voting with threats of fines and imprisonment in the background.
He said that earlier legal attempts to challenge the consent decree had failed, but that recently there was a U.S. Supreme Court case involving firemen, in which the court ruled that ''anybody affected by a consent decree could sue if they had no input into the decree.''
The Yonkers consent decree was fashioned by Judge Sand, whose ruling in 1985 that Yonkers was guilty of four decades of discrimination in housing and schools set the ''remedies'' in motion.
 
'Seeing It My Way'
''I don't think this housing is ever going to be built,'' Mr. O'Toole said. ''Some people thought I was outrageous when I said a few years ago that it won't be built, but now some of them are seeing it my way.''
Mr. DeLuca said he assumed that DeLuxe would be going to an out-of-state bank to get the loan. ''Somebody's got to give them the money to start construction.'' He said that the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development was underwriting it, ''but it's a turnkey project, which means 'You build it, then we'll fund it.''
Maybe Jack Kemp, the New York Republican who is Secretary of H.U.D., ''will have to get involved,'' Mr. DeLuca said.
And how would Mr. O'Toole seek to bring pressure if DeLuxe found an out-of-state bank? ''All banks have correspondent banks,'' he said. ''So we'll find out the correspondent bank in Yonkers and picket them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL BANK (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YONKERS (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CREDIT; DISCRIMINATION; BOYCOTTS LITIGATION (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); APPROVALS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); CREDIT REGULATION (62%); 

PERSON: FERON, JAMES; NEWMAN, OSCAR OSCAR NEWMAN (94%); KENNETH HERZ (65%); DONALD MESKE (61%); 



242 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Ruin in New York

 BODY:
Lurching.
There's no better way to describe the kind of leadership Mayor David Dinkins gave New Yorkers last week. With the economy in deepening trouble, the city urgently requires a forthright voice and a steady hand. Here is what it got:
On Monday, he announced an unrealistically generous settlement with the teachers' union that rocks the city treasury in two ways. It will cost $236 million by itself. Worse, the 5.5 percent raise sent a gilt-edged invitation to other unions to seek similar raises for themselves. 
On Tuesday, responding to a wave of fear about crime and stray gunfire, he proposed an intelligent, ambitious law enforcement plan. It would cost the ordinary citizen only about $50 a year, the Mayor said. There's another way to do the arithmetic: the four-year cost would be $1.8 billion.
On Thursday, in obvious response to criticism of the labor settlement, he imposed a partial job freeze and suddenly raised the prospect of laying off 15,000 city workers.
New York may be wealthy enough to find funds to give teachers a healthy raise and to pay for an anti-crime program. Or it may be so broke it must contemplate laying off thousands. But how can it be both? And what assurance is there that the Dinkins Administration won't now lurch in some other direction, in response to some other bad news?
It's as if the business conducted in City Hall is day-by-day public relations instead of sober management of the politics of scarcity.
The Mayor's new initiatives are narrowly plausible in the sense that he does outline how he proposes to get the money for teachers and police. But such earmarking misses the point. His own officials estimate a budget gap of $1.4 billion in the next fiscal year; outside analysts think $2 billion is more like it; and now Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman says $2.6 billion.
None of this is meant to imply that teachers don't deserve more. It's not to deny that the city needs a crime program - and the one proposed by Police Commissioner Lee Brown is admirable. But it's no trick to tell the public what it wants. New York knows from the fiscal crisis of the 1970's that the road to ruin is paved with justifiable programs.
What makes Mr. Dinkins's initiatives so problematic is that they have emerged piecemeal. Does it make sense to give teachers a 5.5 percent raise if the price is truly 15,000 layoffs? Should the city hire all 6,479 new police officers if that means closing libraries or curtailing foster care?
Those may or may not be the choices. There's no way to know because Mr. Dinkins has yet to present them coherently. Indeed, last week's lurches impel some people to wonder if Mr. Dinkins wouldn't be wise to undo the teacher settlement, suspend the crime proposal and start over.
That would be a grave retreat, but the problems are grave. Real estate is in trouble. So are finance and insurance. Media and advertising are sagging. And this year, it is costing the city more to operate than it budgeted for. It is not too late for Mr. Dinkins to recoup. But to do that, he'll have to offer a steady plan the public can understand. If they know why, people will grumble but accept sacrifice. Otherwise the Mayor, and New York, will be left in the lurch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); CRIME PREVENTION (70%); POLITICS (64%); TRENDS (62%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (92%); 



243 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
Residential Listings Growing Around Lake Tahoe

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

DATELINE: SOUTH LAKE TAHOE, CALIF.

 BODY:
 But nobody expects values to be as severely hit as they have been on the West Coast or in the Northeast. Environmental concerns for the purity of the lake -- folklore suggests that a dinner plate is visible 120 feet below the surface -- have so tightly controlled the opportunity for development since 1983 that the supply of homes at any price is limited.
 Further holding off a plunge in prices is the buoyant effect of the foreign money pouring into what has become a world-class resort.
"We've had a strong international market for some time," said Adele Lucas, president of the South Lake Tahoe Board of Realtors. "They hear about us on TV sports, on 'Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous.' " Typical buyers, she said, are from Japan, Mexico, Europe and South America. 
 Another factor is that market conditions on the Nevada side of the lake seem to mirror the property boom elsewhere in Nevada, which could further ameliorate the wider chill.
 The Lake Tahoe basin encompasses more than 100 square miles over 6,000 feet above sea level. The lake itself is 22 miles long and 12 miles wide, with the border between California and Nevada slicing through its center. Five counties -- three in California and two in Nevada -- and some 15 towns make up the 71 miles of shore area, which has 72 beaches, 14 marinas and 950 boat slips.
 More than a dozen cross-country and downhill ski centers rise from that shoreline, often hidden from view by the dense firs and pines that cover most of the surrounding mountains. Communities run the gamut from exclusive enclaves like Incline Village and Glenbrook on the steeper Nevada side to this one in the relatively flat, more populous area south of the lake. More than 80 percent of the basin's land area is owned by state or Federal agencies or land conservancies.
Brokers estimate that values at Incline Village are higher right now than anywhere else in the basin. Currently listed for sale there, for example, is a 5.9-acre lakeside estate with a main house, a guest house, a tennis court, 250 feet of beachfront and a pier. The asking price is $12 million, possibly the highest ever. Moreover, figures compiled by the Incline Village Board of Realtors show that there have been only 425 homes in that village listed for sale to date this year, compared to 547 in September 1989, a 22.3 percent drop.
The numbers represent condominiums, single-family houses and estates, with houses averaging about $380,000 and condominiums around $150,000 each. Prices of comparable properties on the more southerly California shore tend to be 30 percent less.
In this city of 21,000 year-round residents, for example, a 4,600-square-foot Tudor mansion with 100 feet of lakefront in the exclusive Tahoe Keys development carries an asking price of $1.85 million. A few hundred yards inland, in the same complex, a new 2,400-square-foot house is priced at $375,000.
 And even here residents are taking no chances. This city is in the initial phase of a $154 million commercial redevelopment plan that is already sweeping away the cheap motels, dilapidated gas stations and tacky retail shacks that gave Route 50 -- the main thoroughfare through the town -- a shabby look.
 "We didn't have the upscale appearance of Vail or Aspen," said David G. Dobson, assistant executive director of the South Tahoe Redevelopment Agency. "So unless we got rid of some of the older facilities and broadened the market we could have been left behind."
Lake Tahoe's birth as a resort dates to the turn of the century, when some prominent Bay Area families carved huge estates out of the pristine hillside and made it fashionable to spend the summer here. More modest families quickly followed, clearing smaller lots for simpler cabins.
Even today, the resort caters to a vast demographic and economic spread, with vacation homes ranging from a $60,000 co-op to that $12 million estate and with luxury hotels standing side by side with the local Motel 6.
At first, development was heaviest on the more accessible California side, and it catered mainly to that summer crowd. But as winter sports grew in popularity in the 50's, the resort began to capitalize on its superb slope and snow conditions and long, clear, sunny winter days. Adding to the natural bounty on the Nevada side was the growth of casinos, which helped draw an even more broadly based crowd.
The housing needs of service workers led to a demand for modestly priced homes. Cheap rental neighborhoods, many patched together from original cabins, began to spring up and started an outcry for more affordable housing that even today dominates local politics.
 But that was not easy to achieve. Worried that pell-mell development was blighting the lake's natural qualities, which was bad for the environment and the economy, local leaders established the bi-state Tahoe Regional Planning Agency in 1969 to impose rigid controls. The agency sets strict limits on the number of new homes that may be built each year and on which sites qualify. It is considered one of the few regional agencies with enough power to override state or municipal planning decisions and enforce its own regional plan.
 The current program, started in 1986 and ending in 1991, allows for 300 new units a year, said David Ziegler, the executive director, with the units apportioned between the five counties making up the lake area and generally awarded either by lottery or on a first-come, first-served basis. Only sites that already have an environmental score that puts them in an acceptable development category qualify. What will be permitted after 1991 is not yet decided, Mr. Ziegler said.
 Partially as a result, a brisk, albeit controversial, market is developing for the transfer of development rights similar to the trading of air rights in New York City. Builders, for example, will buy an old cabin in a poor site for about $30,000, raze it and transfer the "right" to that unit to a more desirable parcel where they may put up a large luxury home. Or they will become partners with someone who owns land and won an allotment.
 Chris Strohm, president of Strohm Construction and president-elect of the South Lake Tahoe Chamber of Commerce, for example, is using a client's 1990 allotment to build a four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath, 2,100-square-foot contemporary home on a third of an acre of steep hillside in an inland location here close to the casinos and ski slopes. To be completed in October, its asking price is $265,000, about the same as it might have been a year ago.
 For the 90's Mr. Ziegler expects "a lot more rebuilding and revitalization" with bigger, more luxurious houses replacing many of the cabins and simpler homes of bygone years and dozens of still-vacant home sites likely to be bought by state, local agencies and land conservancies.
 The much-needed multifamily housing for the service workers is expected to be about a half-hour inland from the protected lake basin, possibly in Douglas County, Nev. The current steel grip on expansion that has protected the lake is unlikely to be loosened in the foreseeable future, officials insist.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lakeside houses in South Lake Tahoe, Calif. The dwelling at left is selling for $1.8 million (Andree Brooks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INCLINE VILLAGE BOARD (59%); SOUTH LAKE TAHOE BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAHOE, LAKE (CALIF); CALIFORNIAhHED,5

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONCOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAKES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); BEACHES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); SKIING (74%); TRENDS (65%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); SKIING FACILITIES (64%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE



244 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 1, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1874 words

HEADLINE: When Singles Meet, They Do More Than Party

BYLINE: By JUDY GLASS

 BODY:
IN the strobe lights of the Long Island Exchange at the Huntington Hilton, throngs of men and women danced to rock music while hundreds jammed the bars and aisles, watching the dance floor.
At a ''30's and Over Night,'' the people - ''mostly single,'' the management said - migrated to the buffet and jockeyed for an opening at the bar.
Scanning faces in the dark, they watched for a glimmer of interest, a responsive smile or a friendly gesture. The ear-shattering music did not allow for talk beyond an offer to dance or a suggestion to escape to the lobby to get acquainted.
In the midst of the scene was a table of Singles for Charities fliers, buttons and placards. Members sought volunteers to work with groups like the American Heart Association or the Cerebral Palsy Association. 
''A lot of people in our organization would not ordinarily go to a disco,'' said Jan Krivosheiw, president and founder of Singles for Charities, who said she did not usually go to discos. ''But the hotels invite us to hold our meetings in their conference rooms as an enticement, and some of our members go to their discos afterward. They usually have a good time, even if the women wind up dancing with each other.''
 
Number of Singles Tallied
The State Labor Department estimates that there were 526,000 never-married singles older than 16 and 288,000 divorced, separated and widowed singles last year on Long Island.
Catering to them has become an industry that did not exist 10 years ago on Long Island, said many organization leaders.
The hotel function and the charity group are among hundreds of social clubs, organizations and dance clubs that have sprung up on Long Island in the last few years to attract the thousands of single people who want more than to watch television and cut the lawn.
Some single people go out every night to a party, a meeting, a class or a disco. ''Most pick one or two functions a week, as it can get pretty expensive,'' said Miss Krivosheiw, a behavioral therapist who lives in Syosset.
Memberships in the organizations range from $25 to $500 a year, with additional charges for individual events and trips. The groups include highly organized profit-making businesses with paid administrative staffs to entrepreneurs who run house parties at $10 to $25 a person, sometimes attracting hundreds of people. Some organizations, like the Roslyn Country Club, sponsor ''gala'' cocktail parties, with a cash bar.
The activities attract mainly singles from their mid-30's to mid-60's, but all have members in their 20's, especially the more sports-oriented groups like those that hold tennis parties. The parties typically offer two hours of doubles arranged by playing level, with time in between for a buffet and socializing. The average fee is $25 a person for participants, and less for observers.
''Declarations of age limitations in the advertising should not be taken too seriously,'' said a disgruntled partygoer, who paid $12 to go to a dance advertised for singles from 35 to 55. Once inside, where there was a cash bar, the 40-year-old woman found herself conspicuously younger than the rest of the crowd, ''who more accurately ranged from 45 to 75,'' she said.
When she complained, the host at the door said that some of the partygoers had begun attending when they were under 55 and that he could not very well ask for proof of age.
Marital status poses similar problems. Some organizations try to limit themselves strictly to singles, divorced and widowed, like Divorced and Separated Catholics. Others present themselves as ''predominantly single.''
But it is generally recognized that single status may include people who are not legally separated. There are clearly no restrictions on age or marital status at the hotels, discos and bars.
The hotel functions have become especially strong competitors for the singles business, say the owners of local bars and lounges, which steadily lost customers in the health-conscious 80's.
The crowds may repel some singles, but they increase the odds of meeting someone. ''They give people a chance to dress up and look their best while they are out there,'' said Camy Covais, at the Hilton, who is also a member of Long Island Single Sailors Association.
Although the clubs may be organized around special interests like golf, tennis, sailing or skiing, ''they are, first of all, social groups,'' said John Bilella of Blue Point, past president of the Suffolk Skidaddlers, a predominantly singles club that has been meeting weekly for 30 years.
There are beach parties, hiking, bicycle or tubing trips and cruises. In season there are ski trips almost every weekend and an annual European excursion.
''It's an adult club where people aren't inhibited by the presence of children, as they are in more family oriented singles clubs,'' Mr. Bilella said. ''People become friends outside of club activities, unlike ski groups that just get together for a group rate and don't see each other in between.''
In organizations,'' said John R. Nelson of Oyster Bay, a builder and an organizer of Singles for Charities, ''people get to know each other in a relaxed spontaneous way, as opposed to the bar scene, where there's a lot of competition.''
Three-quarters of the club, which grew to 700 members in its first year and a half, is female. ''But men are learning to give as well as to take,'' said Mr. Nelson.
''Ten years ago it was common for singles to hang out in bars, drinking all night, and there were many more bars on Long Island,'' Mr. Bilella said. ''Then two things happened. People became more health conscious, and the Suffolk County police began to crack down on D.W.I.'s. There were a lot of pickup clubs and bars on Long Island then that are no longer in business. And the bar business in general has been suffering ever since.''
 
Reflecting New Pursuits
''Becoming single in your 40's or 50's can change your life style,'' said George Paterson, past commodore of Long Island Single Sailors' Association. ''Sailing is a fairly healthy activity. The people I want to associate with are into healthy pursuits, watching their diets, cutting down on alcohol consumption and exercising more.
''Being single is an added incentive to take care of yourself. If a married man loses 50 pounds, it might go unnoticed. It makes a real difference if you're single.''
Mr. Paterson, an educator who has been married two times, said many newly single people were so desperate to marry that they did it for the wrong reasons.
''It takes a good four or five years to become emotionally comfortable with yourself and to be able to look at marriage with some perspective,'' he said.
Lynn Thompson of Huntington, a partner in a pension-consulting business, said, ''Women who become economically independent and no longer have children at home can now choose partnerships that offer them friendships and enjoyment, rather than the protection and need that may have motivated them in the old days.''
 
'Friendship and Companionship'
The Skidaddlers group used to average seven marriages a year, ''but marriage isn't always the objective,'' said the president, Tony Calafiore of Selden, who met his wife on a club trip in 1985. ''People, especially those who are newly single, want friendship and companionship. They want to do something, and they don't always know what.
''Through the organizations, people meet others with similar interests. They may become involved in activities and sports they never would have tried when they were married.''
''Couch potatoes become downhill racers,'' said a Skidaddler at the weekly meeting in the Celebrity Lounge in North Babylon.
Long Island, as many singles in the area know, was nominated in a national poll as one of the worst places to be single, because women outnumber men 5 to 1.
 
Changes in 10 Years
''Also, getting around in the suburbs is much harder than in Manhattan,'' said Linda Grimaldi of Manhattan, who recently married a Long Islander she met on a Skidaddler trip. ''In the city there's far more flexibility, and you can always go to another club if you don't like the one you're at. Out here people go to one place and stay.''
Dancing is just as important an activity as sailing or skiing, said Ms. Covais, the nurse who is also in the sailors' association, which meets at the Australian Country Inn in Fort Salonga. But socializing has changed in the last 10 years, people in her group said.
''The AIDS epidemic has made people more selective in their choice of partners and more careful than they used to be,'' said Ms. Covais, who was interviewed with a group of friends at the Huntington Hilton. ''Women I know are taking the use of condoms more seriously and trying to find out more about a person's relationship history before they go out. The question is can you believe what people tell you?''
''Definitely not,'' said a friend, Inge Couteller of Huntington, who works in advertising sales. ''It's impossible to know unless a person has checked out O.K. on an HIV test, and even then you can't be sure. You have to use condoms until you're ready for total monogamy.''
 
'Like Crossing the Street'
''Adult singles are certainly not ready for total celibacy,'' a man in the group said. ''It's like crossing the street. You look both ways, but you still cross.''
The group was asked whether people still date in the traditional sense, when one person arranges a meeting and pays for the evening.
''Yes, but it doesn't mean the same thing,'' said a woman in her 40's who has never been married. ''You may think a man is really interested in you if he asks you to go away for a weekend. Then you find out that he took another woman away the weekend before and is seeing a third woman in between. There are just too many single women on Long Island.''
 
Friends of the Opposite Sex
''A lot of singles want to become part of a couple again, but a lot don't,'' said Miss Krivosheiw of Singles for Charities.
Many singles said they welcomed having friends of the opposite sex, a phenomenon that was not so common a few years ago.
''Long Island singles are definitely maturing,'' said Bob Matherson, owner of the Oak Beach Inn, a disco and restaurant on the beach between the Robert Moses Causeway and Jones Beach. The inn had been known for years as a gathering place for never-married younger singles who danced and drank until the sun came up or until they were stopped on a drunken-driving charge on the parkway, Mr. Matherson said. The inn now has an over-35 night every Monday and an over-25 night every Tuesday.
''My old customers are getting older,'' Mr. Matherson said. ''Younger singles can't afford Long Island, and the change in the legal drinking age has affected business.
The inn offers free drinks to women almost every night, a free barbecue, a sing-along, a band and two disk jockeys on its dance floors and outside deck overlooking the water.
''Competition among the dance clubs on Long Island has become fierce,'' Mr. Matherson said. ''About 10 hotels have opened in the last few years, and most have dance clubs and singles nights. You have to make sure people have a good time if you want them to keep coming back.''

GRAPHIC: Photos; Members of the Long Island Single Sailors Association at an outing on the Sound. Above, singles gyrating to the music at the Oak Beach Inn in Oakdale (Judy Glaass; Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: SINGLE PERSONS; ORGANIZATIONS, SOCIETIES AND CLUBS POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TENNIS (74%); SPORTS (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); MARRIAGE (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); LOBBYING (55%); CEREBRAL PALSY (53%); 

PERSON: GLASS, JUDY



245 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 24, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY OPINION;
It's 8 P.M. Do You Know Where Dinner Is?

BYLINE: By MARILYN A. GELMAN

 BODY:
THE dinner bell chimes a different tune for suburban single parents and their families.
The seven basic food groups of grade-school home economics never prepared us for the mealtime impact of our other basic dietary determinants: employment status, the children's ages and grandma's life style.
The single parent's employment status determines whether there's time to cook or money for groceries, the health of the family credit card and whether breakfast or dinner is the family's main meal.
The children's ages determine their chopping and stove permissions and their access to banks, supermarkets and the diner near the train station. 
Grandma's life style determines whether she cooks, invites or sends leftovers.
Our youngsters adjust to a variety of mealtime signals. In my house, early morning smoke-alarm sirens meant ''breakfast''; the shout of ''Dinner!'' sent the kids to the door to accept a delivery.
Eventually, children of working single parents develop self-defensive cooking skills. Often at odd hours, the family begins to have family meals.
By the time my sons were 9 and 13, I had asserted, ''The person who brings home the bacon shouldn't have to cook it or clean up after it.'' No more would I commute home to hungry birds chirping in the nest. No more would I bear the sole responsibility for making a single-parent family work. No longer would I see us as a broken home. I stuck to my guns. I didn't cook. I didn't order in. I didn't shop.
Finally, one evening, a warm smell greeted me at the front door. The table was set, pots were dancing on the stove and my sons were beaming with accomplishment.
We had tomato-pepper stew with brown rice and garlic bread. We forced down our ice-cream dessert. And so my sons began to help me paddle our canoe upstream.
In the following years, traditional fare gave way to the mysterious. The boys directed food shopping activities. If I worked late without calling, I was reprimanded for ruining meals.
We ate well-balanced vegetarian dinners cooked from scratch, using seasonal vegetables (some I had never seen before). Our complexions glowed, our hair shone and my food bill was cut in half.
No one told my sons that bechamel sauce was difficult or spinach lasagne too much work. The boys pretended that cookbooks were chemistry sets and measured and mixed their potions with precision. We had stuffed peppers, onions with a chocolate macaroon filling, and stuffed zucchini with cheese sauce. One son shopped, one son chopped; then, one cooked and one cleaned up. In every way, we were filled.
If the boys didn't cooperate, no one ate. The brothers formed a special bond.
All too soon, college breaks up the working single parent's kitchen staff.
Unlike the old days, when children moved on and the recipes stayed home, our kids take our favorite meals with them.
Free of meal plan bondage, the fledglings cook all the family specialties in their college dorms while their working single parents, willing to kill for a hot, home-cooked meal, count cholesterol and calories at fast-food restaurants' drive-through windows.
Hungrily, suburban empty-nested single parents anticipate college vacations. We yearn for familiar cooking aromas to greet us on the front porch and to descend on the diner near the train station as a gang again.
We're eager for family members to break bread together. We relish telling stories of our mealtime triumphs and tragedies.
The younger boy chortles over the evening he put his noncustodial on an outbound train after an early dinner date, then picked me up from the next inbound train for his dessert.
I remember the prepaid pizza I sent to the house on an evening I ate out, alone. My multiple roles had drained me.
They tell stories of my last kitchen efforts: the time the spaghetti sauce sprayed over the walls and ceiling, the time I put my thumb through the 45-year-old pipe under the sink, my conviction that there must be a fire in the house because my pancakes couldn't create that much smoke, the time I was unemployed and made them farm-fresh eggs and homemade biscuits from scratch and percolated coffee on top of the stove.
We remember the 4 A.M. trips to the diner for breakfast when our schedules had made us strangers and I missed them too much; and, in later years, the race to the train station. If they got there first, dinner was on my credit card; if I got there first, they cooked.
Now, at ages 20 and 24, they tell me about the candlelight dinners they prepare and encourage me with, ''But Mom, quiche isn't hard to make.''
Mealtimes: some of my most fulfilling memories of suburban single parenthood.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; SINGLE PERSONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (85%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); ICE CREAM (74%); FROZEN DESSERTS (61%); SMOKE DETECTORS (53%); 

PERSON: GELMAN, MARILYN A



246 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Tally Is Seen as a Sign Of Voter Unrest

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 7

 BODY:
A day after J. Bennett Johnston was elected to a fourth term in the United States Senate, the talk here was of the degree of support for the man he beat, David Duke, a State Representative and former Ku Klux Klan leader.
In a year of widespread voter unrest, the fact that Mr. Duke won 44 percent of the vote and more than half of the white vote was viewed as a potent sign of the discontent and frustration among the electorate.
''The voters are really angry and volatile and looking for some kind of savior, some kind of outsider,'' said Lawrence N. Powell, a Tulane University history professor. ''Certainly, there's a strong racial backlash, but just as powerful is this anti-incumbency backlash.''
 
For Some, a Clear Message
For some, the message of Mr. Duke's surprising showing was clear. Several suburban youths in town for a night at the French Quarter said they did not know much about politics, but knew what they like. And they liked what they heard from David Duke. 
''The blacks are just taking everything,'' said Grenes Neyaski, one of a half dozen college-age youths jostling to voice support for Mr. Duke. ''They're taking everything from us, and the white race is going down the tubes. It's about time someone spoke up for white people.''
Mr. Johnston, who won with 54 percent of the vote, acknowledged that many of the votes cast for his opponent ''were protest votes.''
''People were venting their spleen,'' he said. ''They said, 'Well, I'm going to send old Bennett a message.' Bennett got the message.''
For his part, Mr. Duke said, ''This is an affirmation of my faith in the people of this state, their good heartedness and their Christian spirit,''
 
National Political Profile
The large showing for Mr. Duke invigorated his political career, but also highlighted his ability to build a national political profile on the back of an almost unbroken record of losing races.
Mr. Duke's ability to get 44 percent of the vote in the face of widespread condemnation of his extremist, racially charged political history overshadowed his defeat. But analysts voiced numerous caveats in analyzing it.
Joe Walker, a New Orleans poll taker, noted that in 1978 Mr. Johnston won by an almost identical margin against another extreme conservative, Woody Jenkins, who is now a state legislator.
''You take away Duke's notoriety, and philosophically, the races are about the same,'' he said.
Similarly, some analysts said Mr. Duke's vote totals may have risen because of the withdrawal of the official Republican nominee, Ben Bagert, two days before the nonpartisan primary. There is speculation that the appearance of a deal between the Republican establishment and Mr. Johnston helped Mr. Duke and that some voters, knowing Mr. Duke was not likely to win, felt comfortable casting a protest vote for him.
In addition, preliminary estimates based on the votes in selected precincts showed that blacks did not turn out as strongly as expected, with the rate 15 percent less than for whites. Had turnout been equal, Mr. Duke's vote would have been below the 40 percent level that analysts had expected.
 
Widespread Shock
Still, there was widespread shock here about the degree to which white voters supported Mr. Duke. While no precise figures were available, analysts estimated that the high white turnout meant Mr. Duke had received about 55 percent of the white vote.
And the election campaign, which played out in an atmosphere of fear and antagonism, added another dark note to a state and a city grappling with troubling racial divisions and an economy that slumped nearly a decade ago with the decline of the oil industry and never recovered. Many voters, still feeling the pinch of a tight job market, are resentful of what they consider Government giveaway programs to people who are unwilling to work.
Mr. Duke appealed directly to those fears, advocating an end to affirmative action programs and requirements that some Government contracts be set aside for minority contractors. His speeches were filled with menacing stories and anecdotes about what he called ''the rising welfare underclass.''
 
'Fed Up With Politics'
Mr. Duke's supporters gathered to watch the returns at the Lion's Club in suburban Harahan on Saturday. They said they were there not just to cheer Mr. Duke but also to thumb their noses at the establishment politics that Mr. Johnston represented to them.
''I have been so upset, fed up with politics,'' said Janet Driscoll, a Metairie woman who described herself as a conservative Republican. ''If I could cut it off and let it sink into the sea I would.
''The reason they fear Duke so much is because he is shaking the power structure of this nation. I am so furious, I could kill the Democrats myself.''
Many of the Duke supporters bitterly denied racist motives in supporting him.
''All over, people say, 'What a bunch of bigots in Louisiana,' '' said Chris Schade, a 30-year-old electrical engineering student from Metairie. ''I want you to know, I voted for him not because of his background, but in spite of it. We don't want to go back to segregation, we just want equal rights for everyone.''
Still, for many the line between grievance and racial hostility is a thin one.
Thus, the youths with Mr. Neyaski alternated between advocating fair treatment for whites and shouts of ''White power'' or the giving of Nazi salutes.
''My girlfriend had a 3.8 average in high school and there was a black girl that had a 3.2,'' Mr. Neyaski said. ''She got a scholarship to L.S.U., and my girlfriend didn't. That's bull. You give them an inch, they take a mile. They should be back in chains.''
Critics say Mr. Duke's followers are playing a dangerous game in thinking they can dissociate themselves from his history of extremist politics.
''The Duke voters think they can play with fire and not get burned,'' said the Rev. James Stovall, head of the Louisiana Coalition, a group of clergy and others opposed to Mr. Duke.
For some, the vague sense of menace that accompanied the race had an unsettling air of familiarity in a city increasingly touched by crime and economic problems.
Britton Trice, owner of a bookstore in the Garden District of New Orleans, received a bomb threat after distributing anti-Duke bumper stickers. Not long after, his wife, Ann, and their 4-year-old daughter were walking to return a videotape when a group of black youths on bicycles rode around them in circles, taunting them, she said.
The threat and the taunting incident brought home the degree to which the race reflected unsettling things about the current environment, Mrs. Trice said.
''I find Duke's support scary,'' she said. ''But I feel really disgusted with things, the level of crime in particular. I think I could have voted for him if it wasn't for his background.''
Immediately after the election, Mr. Duke's supporters began talking about a gubernatorial race. Skeptics say he has made a career of gaining publicity by losing races.
''He's not going to get elected to any statewide office,'' Mr. Johnston said. ''He may run. That's what he likes to do is run.''
But it was clear his showing and the fervor of his followers could make him a political force for years to come.
''My greatest hope is that the movement against racism in Louisiana continues,'' said Beth Rickey, a Republican committeewoman who was one of the founders of the anti-Duke alliance, ''because Duke is going to be around for a long time.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator J. Bennett Johnston retained his seat in the election; State Representative David Duke of Louisiana in New Orleans yesterday after conceding in the Senate race, though he received more than half the white vote. With him was one of his daughters, Kristen. (Photographs by Associated Press) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TULANE UNIVERSITY (57%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); KU KLUX KLAN KU KLUX KLAN; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; RACIAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RACE & RACISM (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); HISTORY (69%); SUBURBS (53%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; DUKES, DAVID R; JOHNSTON, J BENNETT (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



247 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2390 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC PULSE/The Industrial Midwest
A special report;
Midwest's Heartbeat Still Heard In the Steady Hum of Factories

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROCKFORD, Ill.

 BODY:
In the bleak winter of 1982-83, one of every four workers in this aging industrial city was out of work, and Rockford had the country's highest unemployment rate. Like other factory cities across the Midwest, crippled by competition from foreign producers of steel and machine tools and automobiles, Rockford was bleeding away its jobs and its people.
Seven years later, Illinois's second-largest city, like the rest of the industrial heartland, has made a slow, if sometimes uneven, recovery. Bit by bit, the Rockford area has gotten back nearly half of the manufacturing jobs it lost early in the decade. Help-wanted signs hang outside some factories, and new stores and shopping plazas push into the cornfields at the edge of town.
''I don't think we will ever take the kind of hits we did in the past,'' said Carl J. Dargene, the president and chief executive officer of Amcore Financial Inc., the largest bank in this city of 140,000. ''We have a lot of companies now that are just more capable of riding out any turbulence in the economy.'' 
Less than a decade after analysts wrote off the industrial heartland as America's ''rust belt,'' suggesting a forlorn landscape of cold, decaying cities and deserted factories, the region's economy is hanging tougher than those of other parts of the nation, and in many ways is actually faring better.
 
Steady Goes the Tortoise
As in the fable of the tortoise and the hare, much of the Midwest - left badly behind during the 1980's by the sprinting economies of the East and West Coasts - has slowly and surely plodded its way back by demonstrating that there is profit in doing what the Midwest has always done best: making things.
To be sure, the region's economy remains vulnerable, and the Persian Gulf crisis and soaring oil prices have taken their toll in the Midwest as in the rest of the nation. There are sharpened fears of layoffs and plant closings in Michigan and other states still heavily dependent on the automobile industry. Unemployment rates in Illinois and Michigan were 7.2 percent in September, well above the national average of 5.7 percent.
And the Midwest's rebound has not benefited everyone equally. While the volume of steel and autos and machine tools from the region's factories is as high as it has ever been, manufacturing employment will never regain the peaks of the late 1970's. That is because a growing emphasis on more efficient production techniques, including automation, has sharply reduced the need for less skilled blue-collar workers.
 
Mortgage Defaults Are Low
Still, in the larger picture, economists say the region's relative stability, including the growing volume of its industrial exports over the last three years, has helped keep the national economy from tumbling into recession.
While the Northeast and parts of the West reel from volatile real estate and labor markets, cutbacks in military spending and sharp reductions in retail spending, the cost of land and labor in the Midwest have remained fairly constant. Mortgage defaults are low and consumer spending has shown modest growth.
A report by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago last month said that although construction and real estate activity had slowed, they ''remained healthier in the Midwest than in the nation as a whole.'' Even manufacturers reported a slow expansion in recent months.
A major factor in the region's rebound over the last three years has been the weakness of the dollar in international currency markets, which drove down the cost of American products relative to their foreign competitors and, in turn, fueled demand for the steel and other durable goods that are the bedrock of the economy in the Midwest more than in any other region.
James E. Annable, the chief economist for the First National Bank of Chicago, said that even the impact of higher oil prices on the Midwest economy would be mitigated substantially by the fact that the turbulence in world energy markets would continue to depress the value of the dollar. Mr. Annable said changes now taking place in Europe would provide Midwestern manufacturers an even larger stage on which to work.
 
Remembering Hard Lessons
Meanwhile, Midwestern manfacturers stung by the recession of the early 1980's have cut costs, looked for market niches that other companies do not fill and invested in new technology to sharpen their competitive edge.
Ted Brolund, the president of the W.A. Whitney Corporation, a Rockford manufacturer that produces heavy-duty machine tools for makers of farm equipment and other manufacturers, said his company has invested several million dollars in recent years to automate its assembly lines.
When the farm economy began to turn around about three years ago and the dollar dropped in overseas markets, Mr. Brolund said, the company was positioned to respond. Now it does 40 percent of its business overseas.
In Cleveland, the Advance Manufacturing Company once employed 60 workers making dies for automobile and appliance manufacturers. But by the early 1980's, with the company down to five employees and swimming in red ink, it borrowed to retool, switching from industrial dies to making speciality parts for the steel, plastics and machine-tool industries.
Now the company employs only half the workers it did a decade ago, but Kenneth Bailey, the vice president, said it expects to turn a $246,000 profit this year on sales of $2.8 million, and expansion is under way.
The region's rebound over the last eight years, Mr. Annable said, has vindicated Midwestern bankers and businessmen, who clung to their faith in the region's manufacturing potential. ''As we used to say in the dark days of 1983,'' Mr. Annable recited, ''In rust we trust.''
 
Problems
 
If Not Decay, Then Stagnation?
Not everyone is so sanguine about the region's economic prospects. Although it is not declining at nearly the same rate it did in the early part of the decade, population trends in the region remain, at best, flat.
Sherwin Rosen, who is chairman of the economics department of the University of Chicago, says that while he too is impressed by the current vitality of the region's manufacturing sector, he believes that the Midwest will have a difficult time over the long run keeping pace with other parts of the nation.
''The decline of the Midwest is inevitable,'' Mr. Rosen said, repeating an argument he made at a regional economic seminar last year. ''There is nothing good or bad about it; it will just decline.''
Among other things, he argues that the region holds no special advantage for service industries, which continue to be the fast-growing source of new jobs, and that those jobs will follow people to other climates, other places. ''For many young people, the Midwest is a less attractive region to live and work,'' he said.
The shifts in the region's manufacturing economy have also forced some painful adjustments. While the Federal Reserve says industrial output from the region is at a level equal to that of the late 1970's, when industry was near its peak, Midwest factories employ far fewer workers than they did a decade ago.
Because of a growing reliance on automation and new technologies, some factories look as if they have been hit by a kind of economic neutron bomb, which left assembly lines running at full speed but eliminated most of the people who worked on them.
At the USX Corporation's huge plant in Gary, Ind., for example, the mills turn out nearly as much steel as they did in 1977, when production reached its all-time peak. But now they do it with only 7,800 workers, rather than the 21,000 of a decade ago.
The toll of such cutbacks has fallen mostly on the legions of unskilled labor. According to Donald R. Grimes, an economist at the University of Michigan, unemployment rates for managers, professionals and skilled technicians in Michigan are now running below 2 percent, while the unemployment rate for unskilled, basic laborers is about 13.5 percent. The national unemployment rate for laborers is about 10.5 percent.
''You can see the impact of these structural changes on the streets of Detroit or Cleveland or any of the major urban areas,'' Mr. Grimes said.
In Rockford, the number of people employed has climbed more than 22 percent since 1982, to a record high of 134,700. Yet only a small number of those who are closest to the bottom have been helped. In June 1983, near the nadir of the local economy, more than 13,000 people received public welfare grants in Rockford. Last year, the total was just over 12,500.
 
Opportunities
Some Areas Buoyed By Service Jobs
 While manufacturing remains the engine of the Midwest economy - the Federal Reserve estimates that 37 percent of jobs in the region are tied to manufacturing - most of the jobs created here, as in the rest of the nation, are in service industries.
Although service jobs in general pay less than manufacturing, the economies of several Midwestern cities have ridden a wave of business expansion. Minneapolis, Indianapolis and Columbus, Ohio, have reaped a windfall of new service industry jobs, in part as companies have moved to the Middle West to take advantage of lower land costs and a strong base of skilled labor.
Several major national corporations have moved their credit-card processing operations to Des Moines, creating more than 2,500 jobs there since the mid-1980's.
The American Electric Power Service Corporation, a holding company for utilities in eight states, said economics were a strong reason behind the company's decision to move its headquarters and 515 employees from New York City to Columbus in the early 1980's.
But quality of life - shorter commuting times, for example - was also a factor. Peter J. DeMaria, executive vice president for administration, said that when the company offered to move employees back to New York at company expense, only 10 took them up on it.
In Indianapolis, a surge in service-sector employment in the metropolitan area has added 116,000 jobs to the economy since 1985 - an increase of 21 percent. New jobs in health care alone grew by nearly 40 percent in Indianapolis between 1983 and 1988, the highest rate in the nation, according to a study by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
Some of the new jobs have come from an unlikely source: Japanese companies. In 1989 alone, according to a report by the Consulate General of Japan in Chicago, the number of Japanese companies in Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin grew by 20 percent, to 1,048. At the same time, employment in these companies grew by 66 percent, or more than 103,000 workers, according to the report. Japanese companies have opened units elsewhere in the nation, but the trend is especially strong in the Midwest.
David S. Dahl, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, said the Midwest's economy has benefited because real estate prices have remained relatively stable and below national averages. Bankers in Chicago say mortgage and loan defaults are at their lowest levels in years, in sharp contrast to the Northeast.
''Because the Midwest was not overextended, it now looks more and more attractive to companies on the outside,'' Mr. Dahl said.
A study by the First National Bank of Chicago pointed to another factor that has insulated the region from the problems afflicting parts of Southern California, the Rockies and the Northeast: the relatively low level of military spending in the Midwest.
Just as the sharp escalation in defense spending helped fuel the economic boom in New England and other areas during the 1980's, the change in Federal spending patterns is now pinching those same regions.
In addition, certain historical factors that helped push jobs and people away from the Midwest are no longer the negatives they once were, said Robert H. Schnorbus, the senior economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
For example, while manufacturing wage scales in the Midwest are still higher than the United States average, growing demand for labor in the South has driven up wages there, reducing the regional disparity.
 
Changes
Smaller Companies, Fewer Smokestacks
 As Midwest industry has adjusted, the changes are reflected in the landscape. There are many more smaller companies, working out of factories without smokestacks, set among grassy landscapes in new industrial parks along Route 271 outside Cleveland, or south of Rockford.
One of those companies is GMN-Torrington, a German ball-bearing manufacturer which opened its one-story plant here in the summer of 1989, with 20 workers. It now employs 50, on three shifts. Michael Beutel, the president and chief operating officer, said Rockford has the advantage, as do other Midwestern cities, of a good network of small shops, trained toolmakers and supply houses.
By most measures, the economy in Rockford - where unemployment of nearly 25 percent in 1983 was the highest in the nation - is doing relatively well. There has not been as much diversification as city boosters would like, since one in every three jobs is still in a factory. But unemployment hovers around 6 percent, sales-tax revenues jumped 8 percent last year and sales of new houses in the first six months of 1990 were running ahead of a year earlier.
Moreover, said Thomas J. de Seve, manager of the United States Department of Commerce branch office in Rockford, there has been a strong increase in the last six years in the volume of manufactured goods produced in Rockford and sold overseas. The total has grown from less than $10 million in 1984 to about $136 million projected for 1990.
Jack W. Packard, the president of Elco Industries, an automotive supplier, said ''I think it's going to get grayer before it gets brighter'' economically. But he says his company, like Rockford and the rest of the old industrial Midwest, is a survivor. It has spent $56 million in new capital investments, found new markets and is entering into a joint venture with a Japanese producer.
''As much as they talk about diversification and service jobs, this is still a factory town, and I say thank goodness for that,'' said Mr. Packard. ''Just think where the country would be right now if we had given up, if we had all let the rust belt blow away.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I don't think we will ever take the kind of hits we did in the past,'' said Carl J. Dargene, president and chief executive of Amcore Financial Inc. in Rockford, Ill. The industrial city is just starting to recover from the winter of 1982-83, when one out of every four workers was unemployed. (The New York Times); graphs: average hourly manufacturing, for Midwest and entire U.S., 1977-1989 (Source: The First National Bank of Chicago); yearly averages of monthly manufacturing growth, Midwest and U.S., 1977-1990 (1990, through August) (Source: Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago); dollar strength, 1977-1990 (1990, first six months) (Source: The First National Bank of Chicago); average military spending per capita, Midwest, Far West, New England, all of U.S., 1980 and 1988 (Source: D

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMFI (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: ROCKFORD, IL, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMCORE FINANCIAL INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US); NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); WESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; REAL ESTATE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE ; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); RETAILERS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E CARL J DARGENE (56%); 



248 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
New Proposal's Lack of Detail Leaves Room to Compromise

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
The bipartisan budget plan that Congressional leaders outlined to rank-and-file lawmakers today would mean less severe cuts in the Medicare program than the plan rejected by the House early Friday. It would also leave room for a deal in which taxes on capital gains would be cut in exchange for raising income tax rates for the wealthy.
While the proposal includes no specifics about the Medicare program, lawmakers said it would allow the Congressional tax committees to take $18 billion less out of the program in the next five years than the $60 billion that had been stipulated in the rejected budget plan.
Legislators said this would mean smaller increases in monthly Medicare premiums for the elderly, to $47 a month by 1995, rather than the $54.30 a month in 1995 that had been stipulated in last week's budget agreement. The premium level is now $28.60 a month. 
Lawmakers said cutting less from the program would also require a smaller increase in the amount that recipients must pay in doctor bills before their Medicare insurance takes over. The deductible, now $75, would rise to $100 in 1991 and remain there, rather than rising to $150 by 1995, as proposed in the original agreement.
The increase in Medicare payments was a major source of opposition from a number of Democrats to last week's compromise, and today's effort was intended to reassure lawmakers who were under pressure from groups representing elderly Americans. Democrats said the groups had endorsed today's plan.
Lawmakers were also told that under the framework of today's plan a 2-cent-a-gallon tax on home heating oil that had been stipulated in the original agreement was likely to be dropped because of strong opposition from members in Northeastern states. Another provision requiring a two-week waiting period for unemployment insurance benefits is also likely to be dropped.
But the most important feature of the new plan is an absence of specifics, and Congressional leaders hope this will speed its passage.
 
Bitter Fights Are Seen
While such an arrangement may get Congress over the short-term hurdle of agreeing to a general deficit reduction plan, it also means that many of the bitterest fights over taxes and spending will now simply be waged in the committees over the next two weeks before they are sent to Congress and then to President Bush for approval.
Like the plan rejected in the House on Friday, the new proposal would seek to cut $40 billion from the Federal deficit in the current fiscal year and $500 billion over five years. Democratic leaders in the House spent most of today in conferences with their Senate counterparts and moderate Senate Repubicans trying to refine the agreement so that it could be adopted in the House tonight.
That agreement will not spell out any of the details on Medicare, but those given to House Democrats were designed to make the proposed package more acceptable to liberals who dominate the House Democratic Caucus. Although Democrats had initially demanded that any budget agreement be endorsed by a majority of Republicans as well, they now appear to have to pass the agreement in the House largely with Democratic votes.
Bitterly divided House Republicans did not attend the budget conferences and the senior Republicans on the House and Senate budget committees late tonight refused to sign off on the new budget plan. But Senate Republican leaders said that they were prepared to move the process forward and that their refusal did not necessarily mean they would not support the plan in the Senate.
Mr. Foley and Administration officials also hinted strongly today that the Congressional tax committees would be looking at a deal that would give Republicans the cut in capital gains taxes that President Bush has long sought in exchange for an increase in the top tax rate for those with the highest incomes. Democrats have argued that a capital gains tax cut would primarily benefit high-income taxpayers and that an increase in income tax rates for taxpayers with incomes over $200,000 would be needed to keep the tax system fair.
Neither capital gains taxes nor income tax rates were altered in the original compromise. Under the new proposal, the tax-writing committees will be told to raise $134 billion in new revenue over the next five years, and will be directed to find an additional $22 billion in either increased revenue or cuts in benefit programs.
 
Interest on Both Sides
''There seems to be interest in that on both sides of the aisle,'' Mr. Foley said.
Vice President Dan Quayle, in an interview on the ABC News program ''This Week,'' said the Administration was willing to ''explore all options'' and specifically declined to rule out the possibility that the President would accept such a trade.
A poll of House Republicans taken by their leaders at a closed-door meeting today showed that a large majority favored that trade, a stunning reversal from the House Republican position of a few months ago when the party's lawmakers said they would not accept any agreement that involved an increase in income tax rates.
Under the original compromise, devised in two weeks of closed-door negotiations between top Congressional leaders and the Administration, Medicare would have been cut by $60 billion over the next five years, with half the reduction coming in Government payments to doctors and other health care providers and the other half coming through higher premiums and deductibles for the 33 million elderly Americans covered by the program.
Such increases were the biggest single objection to the plan from lawmakers in both parties.
 
SHUFFLING THE NUMBERS
 
Here are some details ofthe ocmpromise assembled by House and Sentae leaders yesterday and how it compares to the original agreement with the Bush Administration 

$	 	 		OLD	 NEW	TOTAL SAVINGS	 	 	Total savings,5yrs	$500 billion	 $500 billion	1991 savings	 $40B	 $40B.	 	 	 	MEDICARE	 	 	 	 	 	Medicare savings	$60B	 $42B	 from providers of health care	30B	30	 from beneficiaries	30B	12	Annual deductible would rise	 	 	over 5 yrs from $75 to	 $150	100*	Monthly premium for doctor	 	 	care would rise over five years	 	 	from$28.60 to	 $54.30	$47*	 	 	 	TAX AND OTHER REVENUE INCREASES	 	 	Total over five years	134 billion	156 billion**	A Medicare Payroll tax of 1.45%	 	 	is now taken from first $51,300 of	 	 	wage-earners income. That ceiling	 	 	would rise over 5 years to	$73,000	$150,000*	 Revenue over 5 years	 13 billion	Not available	Tax on home heating oil	2 cents a gallon	No	Revenue over five years	200 million	0	Two-week waiting period for unemployment benefits	 Yes	No	Revenue over five years	$4.6 billion	0 	
 
 * Informal agreement; details to be decided by committees in each house. ** Includes unspecified savings.

GRAPHIC: Graphic: ''Shuffling the Numbers'' (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX MEDICARE (94%); BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FUEL TAX (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); HEATING OIL (50%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F



249 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
CONGRESS LEADERS SCRAMBLE TO FORGE NEW BUDGET DEAL IN MOVE TO BREAK DEADLOCK

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Monday, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Congressional leaders cobbled a new deficit-reduction plan together Sunday and took it before their colleagues in a scramble to end the budget deadlock and get the Federal Government back in full operation by the start of the workweek on Tuesday.
The House passed the measure early today by a vote of 250 to 164 and sent it to the Senate, which planned to take it up later today. The House vote was heavily along party lines, with Democrats in favor and Republicans against.
After the vote, which was completed at 2:30 A.M., the House immediately took up an interim spending bill authorizing the Government to resume normal operations while the details of the budget are completed.
 
'A Government in Crisis'
''We are tonight a government in crisis,'' the House Budget Committee chairman, Leon E. Panetta, Democrat of California, said in urging support for the resolution. ''The time has come for action to move this budget resolution. The country is waiting. The people are waiting.'' 
But Bob Livingston, Republican of Louisiana, said the plan increased spending and reduced taxes, giving no reason for Republicans to support it. ''This is a leftward budget,'' he said.
As the White House and Democratic leaders blamed each other for the weekend of fiscal chaos, negotiators for the Senate and the House fashioned a new budget plan from the wreckage of one that failed in the House on Friday.
Leaders of both parties in the Senate and the House began the day Sunday with what Congressional aides termed ''an agreement in principle'' on the revisions. But a group of House Republicans mounted a guerrilla war Sunday night to block the package over their opposition to new taxes and their fear that the plan would leave crucial details to committees controlled by Democrats.
 
No Word From White House
The new plan was designed to make more palatable, both substantively and politically, the most unpopular parts of a budget deal President Bush and the bipartisan leaders of Congress had announced a week ago in the Rose Garden of the White House, only to see it rejected four days later by the House.
White House officials offered no guidance on how the President would receive the new plan. House Democratic leaders abandoned their original plan of seeking half the House Republicans in support of a deficit-reduction plan and instead lined up as many Democrats as they could.
But Senate Republicans, who can block almost any action in their chamber, were being closely consulted as the plan took shape.
The new budget proposal, like the old one, is intended to reduce the deficit, projected at nearly $300 billion for this fiscal year, by $40 billion this year and by $500 billion over the next five years.
Under the new plan, Medicare premiums and deductibles would not rise as much, and members were assured that ticklish items like higher taxes on home heating oil and a longer waiting period for unemployment compensation would not be part of the final budget package.
The new agreement is far less detailed than the old one, meaning that many of the crucial decisions will be made by powerful tax and budget committees, whose members resented being left out of the original negotiations between the Bush Administration and Congressional leaders.
Democrats said the split among Republicans in the House was delaying a new package. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the majority leader, said the budget conference between the House and Senate had been stalled most of the day Sunday by the refusal of Republican House members to attend.
 
Waiting for Republicans
''We have had all the Democrats there,'' Mr. Gephardt said. ''We've had Senate Republicans there. We can't quite seem to get the House Republicans to attend the conference. We've been sitting there for six hours.''
Speaking to Republicans on the floor, Mr. Gephardt added: ''I hope someone will come from your side so we can do what the President has asked us to do for five months and what he asked us to do yesterday.''
Representative Robert S. Walker, Republican from Pennsylvania, said Republicans were angry beause they did not feel they had been ''well consulted'' on the latest budget plan.
The conference committee, composed of members of both chambers and both parties, was formed to produce a bipartisan budget agreement.
Late Sunday evening, the ranking Republican members of the budget conference, Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico and Representative Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, were refusing to sign the conference report, said the chairman of the House rules committee, Representative Joe Moakley of Massachusetts. But Mr. Moakley said this did not mean Senate Republicans had abandoned the new plan, quoting Senator Bob Dole, the Republican leader, as saying, ''A lack of signature doesn't mean a lack of support.''
 
Senate Meets Monday
Mr. Dole himself, in his Capitol office around 11 P.M., said: ''I'm supporting the process. My view is that we still have a pretty good bipartisan relation in the Senate.''
A Democratic spokesman said Senator Domenici had said he would consider signing the conference's plan today.
The Senate convened at 6 P.M. Sunday and soon after recessed until today, Columbus Day, meaning that the budget crisis can be resolved no sooner than that.
 
'Great Confusion'
With many details of the new plan now turned over to Congressional committees, it was unclear just what reductions would be made and how the $20 billion lost from the old plan in taxes and Medicare cuts would be made up.
''Yes, there is great confusion here in the House of Representatives,'' said Representative Sonny Callahan, Republican of Alabama, on the House floor.
Another issue turned over to committee, amid a gathering consensus that something would be enacted, was the debate over some form of reduction in the capital gains tax in exchange for an increase in the top income tax rate on the wealthiest Americans.
Across the nation, Americans watched their capital city with a mixture of disgust and bemusement, while here in Washington the frustration and bitterness reached such a level that one of the city's most mild-mannered men, House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, displayed public anger at President Bush's efforts to blame Congress for the standoff.
 
Bush Aides Out of Sight
Mr. Bush spent the second day of the Government's partial shutdown at the Camp David retreat in the Catoctin Mountain National Park of Maryland, traveling by motorcade rather than helicopter to save money. Camp David, run by Navy personnel, remained in operation, but the park's visitors center, deemed a nonessential service, was closed.
Mr. Bush's senior aides were ''on the phone heavy,'' as one put it, to keep in touch with the budget situation, but were advised by Congressional leaders to stay out of sight of members who blame them for much of the budget breakdown.
The new budget plan, which shifts much of the decision-making back to committees, was a return to Congress's old way of doing business, before leaders, trying to overcome the deadlocks of a Government divided between Republicans in the White House and Democrats in control on the Hill, turned to deals cut by small groups of leaders and presented as a package to the rank and file. Whose Charm School? Mr. Bush's veto on Saturday of a stopgap spending bill precipitated the shutdown of all ''nonessential'' Federal services. Mr. Bush has said he would sign a continuing resolution if a budget to his liking had been approved or if the continuing resolution itself included budget cuts similar to those in the deal rejected by the House on Friday.
While they are persona non grata on Capitol Hill, Mr. Bush's aides appeared on Sunday television shows to continue the effort Mr. Bush began Saturday to blame Congress for the debacle.
John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, and Richard G. Darman, the budget director, avoided negotiating directly with Congress because they had offended so many lawmakers by their behavior, which some in Congress termed high-handed. ''Some people have accused them of going to the Sam Donaldson charm school,'' said Vice President Dan Quayle of the two Bush aides on the ABC News program ''This Week.'' Mr. Donaldson, sitting next to the Vice President, replied, ''You could do worse.''
But Mr. Quayle added particularly of Mr. Sununu: ''He is not the problem. The problem is Congress.'' Speaker Foley, unusually angry, lashed back at the White House, saying the President was every bit as much a part of the budget-making process as Congress.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors lined up yesterday outside the Capitol in Washington, which was one of the few tourist sites not closed by the budget crisis. (George Tames for The New York Times) (pg. A1); Representatives Andy Ireland, left, and Newt Gingrich, both Republicans, on Capitol Hill yesterday as the budget impasse continued (George Tames for The New York Times) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN HOUSE (68%); WHITE HOUSE (66%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MEDICARE (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (63%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (77%); LEON E PANETTA (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (51%); 



250 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
South Korea's defense minister and a top general were dismissed. The general's command had been accused of involvement in the surveillance of politicians and other civilians. Page A7

 
Moscow offered Tokyo two islands of the four claimed by the Japanese in a bitter territorial dispute. The Soviet gesture was seen as something less than a breakthrough in Japan. A3 
 
 
The issue in the Pakistan election that has dominated voter interest is whether Benazir Bhutto is guilty of the corruption charges against her. This is despite the nation's dire economic and social problems. A5

 
Soccer balls sustain Pakistan town D4

 
Israel began distributing gas masks and chemical-warfare defense kits. It plans to provide masks and kits to each of its 4.5 million citizens in the next two months. A6

 
Jordan has ordered austerity laws designed to reduce the nation's fuel consumption, resulting from fast-dwindling oil reserves and a deepening trade battle. A6

 
Iraqi pullout? Kuwait election?
Scenarios worry hawks A6

 
A limit on Japanese car imports to Europe would be imposed under an accord that is close to being signed by the European Community and Tokyo. Europe's auto makers don't think the accord is tough enough. D1

 
A Russian holds forth on reform A3

 
Socialists win Austrian elections A7

 
Mangweni Journal: The fate of Mozambican refugees who make it to South Africa is as bitter as their past. They ususally live in the dirt-poor tribal homelands, and work for near-starvation wages. A4

 
Free-market lessons of Chile's ''Chicago Boys'' D4

 
NATIONAL A8-15
 
A new deficit-reduction plan was put together by Congressional leaders and presented to their colleagues in a scramble to end the budget deadlock and get the Government back in full operation. A1

 
The new budget compromise would mean less drastic cuts in the Medicare program, and it also leaves room for a deal in which taxes on capital gains would be cut in exchange for raising income tax rates for the wealthy. A1

 
The closing of nonessential services by the Government disrupted the holiday weekend for tourists and probably cost more than what was saved. A15

 
Reporter's Notebook: Debate yields delay and disruption A14

 
The industrial Midwest's economy has made a slow, if uneven, recovery since the massive layoffs of the early-80's by doing what it has always done best: make things. A1

 
The graduation rate of a college, as well as its crime statistics, would have to be revealed to prospective students under a bill nearing passage. A1

 
David Duke's strong showing in the Louisiana senatorial race reflects a strong racial backlash, general voter discontent and other factors, acccording to analysts, who voiced numerous caveats about what conclusions to draw. A1

 
The desktop publishing systems of personal computers are being used to produce counterfeit checks, identification cards and driver's licenses, as well as to alter documents illegally, security experts say. A1

 
The unions seeking to buy United said they had failed to persuade enough banks to finance their bid for the airline's parent company, forcing them to present a bid with less cash than they had sought. D1

 
Ford and auto union reach contract agreement A8

 
An Iowa nurse who contracted AIDS during a medical accident went public with her story to warn other health-care workers. Her small farming community reacted with much support. A8

 
Anchorage Journal: A shopping sale that is the biggest in state history begins tomorrow with a multimillion-dollar, 50-acre auction of surplus gear left over from the cleanup of the Exxon Valdez oil spill. A8

 
NASA officials are trying to cope with their latest embarrassment, the grounding of another shuttle, as well as the uncertainties of the Government's budget dispute. A9

 
The Safe Drinking Water Act is being poorly enforced, resulting in unhealthy water supplies in hundreds of towns and cities, environmentalists say. A9

 
Cigarette makers turn to lower-priced brands D1

California gubernatorial candidates clash in debate A12

 
REGIONAL B1-5
 
The World Chess Championship begins today in a Broadway theater, where the fiery champion, Gary Kasparov, and his archrival, Anatoly Karpov, are scheduled to play the first 12 games of their 24-game championship. A1

 
Passionate defender versus cool challenger B5

 
Mayor Dinkins's budget challenges continue as he must soon decide on how to cut spending to close a budget gap for the coming fiscal year that is estimated at $1.4 billion. B1

 
Dinkins bed causes furor B2

 
The mammoth anti-crime plan offered by Police Commissioner Lee Brown may be the most detailed analysis of the Police Department's needs in its history, but it was born of much less ambitious intentions. B1

 
New York locksmiths are thriving. They say that the majority of their clients are not worried about their jewelry or televisions as much as dangers to themselves. B3

 
Metro Matters: Slicing Columbus into two pieces B1

Robbery suspect kills himself in a Bellevue unit B3

 
The local U.S.O.'s 50th birthday was celebrated this weekend, during a time when the organization has been galvanized by a new sense of mission, courtesy of Saddam Hussein. B1

 
The University of Connecticut is worried about the future: It has no permenant president, its basketball star is thinking of leaving, and it may suffer major cuts in the next state budget. B1

 
Officials in New Haven clash on Yale tax deal B3

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
SPORTSMONDAY

 
Auto Racing: Unser takes Indy-car title despite crash C5

Baseball: A's take 2 games to 0 lead C1

Pirate outfielders quiet at plate C7

Boston bullpen falters again C7

Basketball: 2 Knicks who aim to get along C5

Theus eager for shooting role C5

Column: Berkow on Red Sox C7

Features: Sports World Specials C2

Question Box C8

On Your Own C10

Football: Jets lose to Dolphins C1

Pressure mounts for Virginia C1

Irish loss may shuffle rankings C2

Ivies overpowered by Patriot League C2

Different week for Giants C4

Bengals overcome Rams C4

Raiders fall to Bills C4

Cowboys top Buccaneers C5

Hockey: Daneyko finds offensive touch C3

Islanders struggle C3

Kisio and Rochefort sidelined C3

Horse Racing: Go for Wand romps C8

Outdoors: Bracing to hunt turkey C10

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT

Arturo Sandoval's musical journey C12

Cutbacks in regional theater C11

''Nasty Girl'' director talks about Germany C11

Four editors appointed at the Times C15

Dance: Mark Morris in Brooklyn C11

Television:''Ferris Bueller'' and ''Parker Lewis Can't Lose'' C15
 ''America Tonight'' on CBS C16

 
OBITUARIES D10

 
William H. Mortensen, philanthropist
Juan Jose Arevalo, former President of Guatemala
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED

 
EDITORIALS A16

 
Gulf crisis: who will pay?
Racial justice in the House
Jack Rosenthal: Lenin statues
LETTERS A16

William Safire: Hail to Ginglock A17

 
Anthony Lewis: When You believe in lies A17

Allan Gurganus: The Civil War in us A17

Stephen J. Solarz: U.N. plan -best hope for Cambodia A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CHILE (79%); UNITED STATES (68%); AUSTRIA (58%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (68%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); MEDICARE (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); INCOME TAX (64%); STARVATION (64%); STATISTICS (60%); GRADUATION RATES (60%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (60%); CRIME STATISTICS (50%); 

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (55%); 



251 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: A Russian Holds Forth On Reform

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MAHWAH, N.J., Oct. 7

 BODY:
Stanislav S. Shatalin, one of the principal authors of the celebrated and contentious ''500 days plan'' to rescue the Soviet Union from economic decline, briefly broke away from high-level meetings in Washington and New York today to revert to his old profession.
On a Sunday afternoon, while students on the front lawn of Ramapo College engaged in a pie-throwing contest as part of homecoming festivities, the economist made his way to a lecture hall.
The former professor, dressed in a steel-gray suit and flanked by Soviet and American flags, met with about 200 students and faculty members and patiently explained what was and was not intended in a plan that, he said, ''has become part of me.''
''This time span of 500 days, for which this program is named, is too short to build a market economy,'' he said through an interpreter. ''We won't set up a market economy in even 900 days.'' 
''We are not setting up a program to create a functioning market economy,'' he said, ''just a program to stabilize the economy.''
 
Tapped by Gorbachev
The Soviet economist was catapulted from relative obscurity last year by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to a post on the Presidential Council and given the task of hammering out a free-market agenda.
He is now one of the driving forces behind the move to foster private ownership, create bank and stock-exchange systems, floating prices and business deals rooted in profit returns. In Moscow, officials are trying to work out a plan to satisfy both those, like Mr. Shatalin, who think that reform should be deep and fast, and those, like Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, who want to move to a market economy at a slower pace. Mr. Gorbachev has said he wants reform, but has not specified how much.
Mr. Shatalin said he had come to the United States to ''evaluate possible ways and means to transfer to a market economy.''
Arriving on Sept. 29, he met in Washington with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney; the White House national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, and with officials from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. He will meet with private banking and business leaders during his remaining three days.
 
Challenged by Russian Visitors
Two visiting Soviet teachers on the faculty at Ramapo College, as part of an exchange program the college has with the Soviet Union, greeted Mr. Shatalin, though with skepticism.
Aleksandr Yakovlev, a translator for Progress Publishers in Moscow who is teaching first-year English, intruded on Mr. Shatalin's sunny forecast.
''How many years more will people have to stand in line?'' he asked. ''How much longer will we have to live on a pittance of a salary? How many more generations will be lost before we have normal, decent lives?''
The Soviet economist said that, at best, there would be ''a small increase in the living standards'' after perhaps two years.
''When I was young,'' he said, ''there were many plans to catch up to the United States, to become a more powerful nation than the United States. Now we have given up this idea. Our task is to make the life of our people decent.''
''As for lines,'' he quipped, ''there are not too many products left to line up for.''
 
Perils Neutralized
The Soviet economist assured one questioner that the Soviet Union was no longer a threat to the United States, and thanked another who warned him about the dangers of American consumerism.
A questioner from the audience who identified himself as a professor of Marxist economics said he wanted the students to know why Mr. Shatalin was not meeting with labor union leaders, a question that the economist sidestepped.
Mr. Shatalin painted a bleak picture of the next few months, citing the serious food shortages, the lack of mobility by workers within the society to travel to jobs, the loss of centralized control over the republics which had eroded cooperation, the ''militarization'' of the economy, a rising crime rate and the declining value of the ruble, which he said is often valued less than a food coupon or a ration card.
''We have several currencies besides dollars,'' he said.
''I don't want to frighten you with any gloomy predictions on what will happen if my optimistic forecast doesn't come true,'' the economist added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stanislav S. Shatalin, center, one of the authors of the ''500 days plan'' to rescue the Soviet Union from economic collapse, with Dr. Thomas Heed, left, Dr. Robert A. Scott, right rear, and Andre Ivanov, an interpreter, on the campus yesterday at Ramapo College in Mahwah, N.J. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAMAPO COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); WRITERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); PRIVATE BANKING (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; SHATALIN, STANISLAV S DICK CHENEY (50%); 



252 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Short of Oil and Supporters, Jordan Orders Fuel Savings

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Oct. 7

 BODY:
With fast-dwindling oil reserves and a deepening trade battle with its increasingly hostile neighbors, Jordan has ordered a series of sharp austerity measures designed to reduce the nation's fuel consumption by at least 20 percent.
Starting on Saturday, the Government workweek will drop from six days to five, and on those days working hours will be limited. Stores, businesses, restaurants and other commercial establishments will have mandatory closing times.
Urban commercial signs and street lights will have to be turned off at given hours each night. And Government vehicles will not be allowed on the roads except during working hours. 
If these and related steps do not quickly reduce the nation's fuel consumption, senior officials said, Jordan will soon have to introduce fuel rationing and other severe measures.
 
Result of the Trade War
The steps announced over the weekend are a direct result of Jordan's deepening trade war with Saudi Arabia, which cut off oil shipments on Sept. 19 and then banned commercial imports from Jordan a short time later, all because of displeasure with Jordan's seemingly pro-Iraqi tilt.
Jordan had relied on Saudi Arabia for just over half of its oil supply. The rest had come from Iraq, even after the United Nations imposed a trade embargo against Baghdad. Jordan has little money with which to buy oil on the open market.
Though the Iraqis certainly have more oil than they know what to do with, the Jordanians say they cannot substantially increase their imports from Iraq. The problem seems to be transport. Oil is ferried from Iraq in tanker trucks, and the roads between Baghdad and Amman are already crowded with the trucks.
But even the present level of oil purchases in violation of the sanctions certainly adds to Saudi Arabia's irritation at Jordan. On Friday Saudi Arabia withdrew its Ambassador from Amman. Jordan had called its own Ambassador home 10 days earlier.
 
King Hussein Meets Arafat
Jordanian officials have continually protested that the nation is only trying to remain neutral. But today King Hussein met with Yasir Arafat, the Palestine Liberation Organization chairman, to discuss the idea of linking a solution of the Persian Gulf crisis to a resolution of the Palestinian conflict with Israel. Saudi Arabia and most other Arab nations, along with the United States, want Iraq simply to withdraw from Kuwait, without any connection to other issues.
The Saudis had shipped oil directly here by pipeline and had been the largest purchasers of Jordanian agricultural products.
Late last month, the Saudis went so far as to forbid Jordanian trucks to pass through Saudi Arabia on their way to sell farm produce to other gulf states to the south.
Jordan retaliated last week and forbade Turkish and Syrian cargo trucks to pass through its territory on their way to Saudi Arabia. Shortages of produce immediately occurred in several gulf states, and that set off a round of international negotiations initiated by Syria late last week. At week's end, Jordan relented and allowed the Syrian and Turkish trucks to pass. In turn, Saudi Arabia allowed Jordanian truck traffic through its territory.
Still, Saudi Arabia refuses to buy any Jordanian goods. And now there are reports here that Jordanian truckers have been having trouble crossing into Turkey.
Since Jordan's trade with Iraq and Kuwait is cut off by the United Nations economic embargo and other regional markets are closed or closing, Jordan's economy has been driven almost to a halt. And late last month, Jordan's Energy Minister, Thabet al-Taher, warned that the country had ''only a few weeks of oil stock'' in the national reserve. That prompted the fuel conservation measures announced this weekend.
Jordanian officials have generally been circumspect in their open criticisms of the Saudis, out of concern that they would only make the situation worse. In a rare outburst during an interview late last month, Crown Prince Hassan complained that the Saudi authorities ''are opening our trucks and dumping our vegetables over the side of the road. I've kept mum about this before now because I don't want to run afoul of other disagreements with the Saudis.''
But now that Jordan has done exactly that, a senior Government official complained this evening that ''the Saudis are trying to strangle us, and if they're not careful they may succeed.''
 
Jordanians Feel Misunderstood
Jordanians say they feel wounded and misunderstood by their neighbors, as well as by the United States, where Jordan has few friends these days. After all, they say, King Hussein is only trying to be an honest, nonaligned broker in the gulf conflict.
But while the Saudis and officials of other governments in the region may appreciate that the King is trying to stake out a neutral position, it is difficult not to notice that this is not so true for some others in his Government and for the bulk of Jordanian people.
During Muslim prayer services on Friday, for example, Jordan's Minister of Religious Affairs, Ali al-Fakir, told 10,000 worshipers that they should attack the American and allied forces stationed just over the border in the Saudi desert.
''We cannot retaliate against the United States itself, because vast oceans separate us,'' the Muslim cleric and Cabinet member said. ''But we now have the opportunity to retaliate against the American troops and other crusaders who are a stone's throw from us. I assure you that we will take them captive and shackle them with chains as Muslims did with Crusaders.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: In an attempt to reduce its fuel consumption by 20 percent, Jordan has ordered a series of sharp austerity measures. King Hussein of Jordan, right, as he welcomed Yasir Arafat, the chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization, in Amman yesterday (Associated Press); map: Jordan (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); IRAQ (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); GULF STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; RATIONING AND ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GASOLINE (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (67%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (64%); TRENDS (64%); AGRICULTURE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); BULK SHIPPING (58%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL TZIPORA LIVNI (52%); 



253 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Ford and Auto Union Reach Contract Agreement

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 7

 BODY:
The United Automobile Workers union and the Ford Motor Company reached a tentative labor agreement today covering nearly 100,000 workers in the No. 2 auto maker's operations in the United States.
Negotiators bargained through the night before shaking hands on the contract at 8:55 A.M. Both sides declined to disclose details of the contract, but Owen Bieber, the union president, said it followed the pattern of the contract that the union reached with the General Motors Corporation on Sept. 17 covering 300,000 workers in the United States.
So far bargaining between American automakers and the union, which began in mid-summer, has been relatively free of rancor. Labor experts have suggested that competition from Japanese automakers and their plants in this country would make a strike extremely detrimental to both sides by allowing the foreign companies to capture a bigger share of the domestic market. 
But the union may still face serious problems at the Chrysler Corporation, which has said it needs an agreement that acknowleges the company's weakness relative to Ford and G.M. The union has rejected the idea.
High-level bargaining at Chrysler is scheduled to begin once the Ford agreement is ratified by the union membership, which could take less than two weeks.
 
Strike Possible in Canada
Ford workers in Canada walked off the job for a week in late September before the company and the Canadian automobile workers union reached an agreement. G.M. is bargaining with the Canadian union, with a Wednesday deadline for a strike in that country.
The pattern established by the G.M. contract could benefit Ford's workers in this country in several ways. Besides a salary increase, the three-year contract between G.M. and the union promised to pay up to $4.5 billion in benefits to laid-off workers if necessary, while giving the No. 1 auto maker some flexibility in closing its excess plants.
Since Ford has little excess production capacity and has idled workers far less than has G.M., Ford may have been able to agree to a similar provision without its being very costly. Still, that could provide protection to workers in a severe economic downturn.
To keep layoffs to a minimum, Ford relies heavily on overtime work, a practice that the union opposes but that many workers like. The union, which has been losing members, would prefer that Ford hire more workers.
G.M.'s contract with the union contained a heavy financial penalty for relying on overtime. Under that provision, auto makers would be compelled to pay as much as $5 for every hour of overtime to an education fund administered by the union and the companies. Ford probably argued to soften the penalty, but whether the company was successful will not be evident until representatives from 79 union locals meet here Tuesday to examine the contract before members vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (71%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CONTRACTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS (LABOR) LABOR UNIONS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); OVERTIME (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STRIKES (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); CLOSINGS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); EDUCATION FUNDING (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P OWEN FREDERICK BIEBER (57%); 



254 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
Tourists Lose Weekend, Others Their Patience

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
The Government took a second day of leave from fiscal normality today, disrupting the holiday weekend for tourists and probably costing more than was saved by shutting down for lack of a budget.
As essential Government functions went uninterrupted and most nonessential workers stayed home as usual on a Sunday, the greatest effect of the continuing budget dispute was felt by vacationers, who found the nation's parks and monuments closed at a time when tourism is usually booming.
Members of Congress caucused to devise a budget that might be accepted in time to prevent greater disruptions on Tuesday, the first working day after the Federal observance of Columbus Day. Most civilian Federal employees would not work then, and normal administrative work, like auditing tax returns, signing contracts, answering phones and taking applications for new Social Security numbers would stop. 
As lawmakers met, tourists wandered disconsolately about Capitol Hill, having been shut out of Washington's popular Smithsonian museums. The reaction of people both in Washington and elsewhere in the country to the confusion seemed mostly to be one of anger against politicians.
 
Effects Quickly Spread
Thousands of people were inconvenienced, from Yosemite to the Everglades, and millions of dollars in camping fees, tolls on scenic roads, and sales at museum shops were lost, officials said.
Dianne Pilgrim, director of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York, which receives half its money from the Smithsonian Institution, called the museum's closure ''particularly painful'' because it cut into the other half of the museum's budget, which comes largely from admissions and shop sales.
And on a glorious autumn day, motorists on the Skyline Drive, atop Virginia's Blue Ridge Mountains, did not have to slow down to pay the usual $5 fee because entrance stations were unmanned. About 25,000 people usually enter the Shenandoah National Park along the drive on fine weekend days, but today nobody was counting them.
In Atlanta, where the popular hiking and jogging trails along the Chattahoochee River were closed, pedestrians ignored the posted restrictions and denounced the politicians for imposing them.
 
Campers Are Evicted
''This doesn't affect the politicians,'' said Dennis Greenia, a marketing consultant dressed for a jog. ''They still have their private country clubs to go to.''
At the start of the weekend, campers had been allowed to stay in many national parks even though normal services, like lectures by rangers, were canceled, and visitors centers were closed. But today that changed.
At Yosemite National Park in California, filled to capacity both because of the long weekend and because the park is celebrating its centennial, more than 5,000 campers were told to clear out by midday. The same thing was happening elsewhere. In the most heavily visited national forest, the George Washington National Forest of Virginia, even the picnic areas were chained.
At Yellowstone, which is too big to shut down all at once, operations were being gradually reduced. ''I think it's horrible,'' Becky Vaccarezza, a camper at Yosemite, told The Associated Press. ''When you're at home, you deal with the bills and everything. But when you come up here, this is everybody's escape. This is how you're supposed to get away from budgets.''
At Muir Woods National Monument, just outside San Francisco, attendance was about 60 percent of the 6,000 who would visit on a typical Sunday in October, said Michael Hughes, a National Parks Service ranger who was one of three ''essential personnel'' working today at the park.
 
Price to Be Paid
When the Congress and the White House finally pick up the pieces of the budget disarray, experts said, the Treasury will probably have to pay the price for this weekend's disruptions. For example, thousands of employees of the National Park Service are likely to be reimbursed for their mandatory days off.
On three previous occasions when the brief lack of a Federal budget forced temporary layoffs, in 1981, 1984 and 1986, workers who were sent home without pay were reimbursed. In 1981, when the Government shut down on a Monday in November, the interruption was estimated by the House Civil Service Subcommittee to have cost the Government up to $90 million.
Stuart E. Eizenstat, who was President Jimmy Carter's principal domestic policy adviser, said today that the hidden costs of shutting down the Government come in many forms.
There are some physical costs for closing and securing Federal buildings, but these are relatively modest, he said. Then there are the costs of interrupting traveling Federal workers, some of whom actually have to be told to return home, at substantial expense.
 
Payment in Cynicism
Finally, he said, there are the incalculable costs to the work force, some of whom get fed up and quit; to the economy, which suffers indirectly when tourists and Federal employees decide not to spend their money, and even to the political psyche.
''The biggest cost of all is the cost in voter cynicism,'' Mr. Eizenstat said. ''It creates a mood of apathy, anger and bitterness.''
One of the angry citizens was Robert Jeffers, an-89-year old retired bell captain at the Parker House Hotel in Boston, who said, ''Sure, I'll write to my Congressman about the Federal budget cuts, but I don't think it will do any good.''
Even Federal workers who were not affected today were distraught by the uncertainty. Robert Gentry, employed on the building management staff at the veterans hospital on Chicago's West Side, said he had told his landlord that the rent check might be late because he is worried about a possible furlough next week, even though the hospital was fully staffed today.
''Am I disgusted with the Government? Yeah,'' he said. ''The Government has put a lot of strain and stress on us.''
 
Looking Toward Tuesday
Many officials continued to believe that before the long weekend was over the budget problems would be resolved. Federal workers are under instructions to report to work as scheduled no matter what happens, so they can be told whether to go back home.
But if the Congress and the White House cannot agree by then on terms for resuming the Government's business, the effects could be much more widely felt on Tuesday morning.
There are at least two possibilities. One is that the Government continue to function with no budget at all, meaning that only activities deemed essential, such as those involving national security, public health, safety, law enforcement and the protection of property would go one. Social Security checks also would still be paid, and the Post Office, which has its own source of income through postage stamp sales. would deliver the mail.
A second, less likely possibility is that a temporary budget would be enacted without achieving steep reductions in the deficit, causing across-the-board spending cuts to take hold under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit reduction law. Unlike the current shutdown, this would affect such things as air traffic control and meat inspections.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Speaker Thomas S. Foley, center, heading for a Democratic budget meeting accompanied by staff members and reporters (George Tames for The New York Times); With a government shutdown, about 6,000 campers were forced to leave Yosemite National Park in California.Scott Brown of Los Angeles flew an upside-down flag from his car as he left campgrounds (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); GEORGIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SHENANDOAH NATIONAL PARK (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (54%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); CAMPING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); HIKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); CAUCUSES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RETAIL SALES (66%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (66%); WALKING & JOGGING (61%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR SCOTT BROWN (55%); 



255 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Pay for the Gulf Crisis?

 BODY:
There's increasing reason to hope that Saddam Hussein will have to withdraw from Kuwait and accept restrictions on Iraq's military power, either because of the embargo or battlefield defeat. One way or the other, the United States will pay the biggest share of the costs, in blood and treasure. That's unfair and unacceptable.
If fighting breaks out, Americans will suffer far greater casualties than any of the allies. With its forces approaching 200,000, the United States will have more than three times as many troops in combat as all its partners put together, including Saudi Arabia. 
And even if there is no fighting, the U.S. already finds itself paying twice, once to defend Iraq's neighbors and again for oil at twice the July price. Saudi Arabia, whose oil profits are expected to jump by about $50 billion a year, has pledged $12 billion this year to reimburse Washington for its gulf-related military operations and to help defray the impact of the embargo on its poor neighbors. But that doesn't begin to cover the bill.
The allies may deploy between 25,000 and 40,000 troops (mostly Egyptian and not counting 40,000 from the Saudis). But that doesn't reflect their relative interest in stopping Iraq or their dependence on oil. Western Europe and Japan buy more oil from the gulf than the U.S.
How did this gross imbalance of responsibilities occur? And what can be done to right it?
The answer lies in the mindset of America's leaders and in the established expectations of our allies. Almost reflexively, the Bush Administration took over the crisis as if it were part of the old cold war confrontation with Moscow. Only the U.S. can do the job, Administration officials argued.
To be sure, President Bush had to move quickly to establish a credible U.S. presence of, say, 50,000 troops. But once they were in place, American airlift and sealift capacity could have been placed at the disposal of the allies to ferry their troops and their arms. And just as many allies sent ships, they could have sent hundreds of combat planes.
But Washington didn't press hard, and the allies contributed only the minimum necessary to placate Congress. With the exception of Germany and Japan, legally barred from deploying combat forces abroad, the allies have no good excuse. They can't credibly plead impotence, disinterest or poverty. Many of the allies are now better off economically than the U.S. What they lack is not the money or the military manpower, but the sense of responsibility and the will to take on their fair share.
Nor can they slide by with the argument that they're doing more now than ever before. They're contributing about the same proportion of troops to the gulf today that they sent to fight in Korea in the early 1950's, when their economies were in tatters and their interests distant. The U.S. suffered almost 34,000 killed and 103,000 wounded in that bloody war, compared with 4,700 and 11,000 for the allies and 70,000 and 150,000 for the South Koreans.
To set this situation right, Mr. Bush and allied leaders have to reappraise mindsets, manpower and money.
First, Washington has to demand much more from the allies, and they have to expect far more from themselves.
Second, every allied nation should deploy more forces, either in addition to Americans or as replacements.
Third, the allied steering group already established to coordinate economic aid should meet immediately to discuss increasing the $20 billion already pledged, principally by Germany, Japan and Saudi Arabia. This amount is grossly insufficient, especially for the Saudis.
Without such reappraisal, Americans will come, rightly, to bridle at the unfairness and will hesitate about future U.S. contributions to collective security. With these steps, Mr. Bush and allied leaders can truly establish a new model for post-cold-war peacekeeping.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (54%); WESTERN EUROPE (54%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FINANCES; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 



256 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: No Paradox Exists

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In reply to Adam L. Schulman's Op-Ed article of Sept. 15: the terms ''conservative'' and ''radical'' - unlike ''left'' and ''right'' - have no intrinsic political meaning independent of the context in which they are used. ''Conservative'' merely designates someone who wishes to conserve the status quo, whatever that is, while ''radical'' refers to someone desiring radical change in any direction. Accordingly, there is no paradox whatever: in the Soviet context (which is not ours), Yegor Ligachev is a conservative, and Boris Yeltsin a radical.
Furthermore, in the long historical perspective, the view of human nature on which classical, free-market capitalism rests - namely, the view according to which man is fundamentally not a social animal at all; his natural and most efficient mode of behavior is competition rather than cooperation, and any cooperation that does take place among people outside the family is due to either compulsion or to selfish motives - is an extreme one and far from self-evident, as 18th-century conservatives like Edmund Burke and Joseph de Maistre recognized. This view would have seemed outlandish to our ancestors of, say, 300 years ago, and would seem outlandish even today to most people in the world outside the United States and Western Europe.
If Mr. Schulman knew more about anthropology he certainly wouldn't call this ''the sober and prudent acceptance of man as he is.'' If this view were correct, then the modifications we have applied to free-market capitalism to make it run more smoothly and humanely - Social Security, unemployment insurance, worker's compensation, redistribution of income through taxation and all the rest of it - wouldn't work.
 
STEPHEN P. DUNN
Director of Research
Highgate Road
Social Science Research Station
Berkeley, Calif., Sept. 20, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); POLITICS (78%); HISTORY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (62%); 

PERSON: KUZMICH 'YEGOR' LIGACHEV (57%); BORIS YELTSIN (56%); 



257 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: The Soviet Conservative Is a Communist

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Adam L. Schulman misses a fundamental point about political conservatism in his ''Soviet Paradox: Left Is Right'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 15). Conservatism, in the Soviet Union as in the United States, tries to protect the status quo. That is why conservatives in the Soviet Union are staunch Communists, and in the West, free marketeers and defenders of ''family values.''
Conservatives are uncomfortable with radical change in any direction. That is why so many conservative columnists in the United States were distressed over the rapidity with which freedom and democracy came to Eastern Europe in 1989. The change was in the correct direction, these columnists agreed, but it was just too fast. Conservatism prefers orderliness and predictability.
Friederich Hayek, a Nobel laureate economist whose observations on such matters are particularly cogent, addressed this issue in a 1960 essay entitled ''Why I Am Not a Conservative.'' The conservative, says Hayek, ''feels safe and content only if he is assured that some higher wisdom watches and supervises change, only if he knows that some authority is charged with keeping the change 'orderly.' '' Seen this way, the Communist conservatism of Yegor Ligachev and the ''moral'' conservatism of, say, Jesse Helms are entirely compatible. Both favor government imposition of a ''moral'' order, distrust spontaneity and cling to the past.
Liberalism, on the other hand (and I refer here to the classical liberalism of Locke and Jefferson) tolerates the unpredictability that accompanies individual liberty, favoring minimalist government in all spheres of life and, in Hayek's words, ''a political order in which both [liberals and conservatives] can obey their convictions.'' This too seems compatible with current liberal currents in the Soviet Union.
 
PHILIP D. HARVEY
Washington, Sept. 17, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (97%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAMILY (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); 

PERSON: KUZMICH 'YEGOR' LIGACHEV (55%); JESSE HELMS (54%); 



258 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Hail To Ginglock

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Do not be embarrassed by the closing of the Statue of Liberty for a little while; she will understand.
The derailing of budget summitry and the shutdown of nonessential services is not evidence that ''the system doesn't work,'' or that our representatives in Congress are too irresponsible to bite the tax bullet just before election.
On the contrary, the system has never worked more dramatically to demonstrate what can happen when government by elitist consensus puts forward a fake compromise and runs smack into the politics of principle.
Face it: a real disagreement exists in this nation about the direction of domestic policy. And don't buy conventional media wisdom: it is not between a little band of responsible leaders who favor balancing the budget versus a grubby swarm of populists who want to expand entitlements but are too hypocritical to vote the taxes to pay for them. 
The conflict is between politicians who want to do more for the people versus those who want people to be able to do more for themselves. In Presidential elections, the conservative philosophy wins on promises of tax restraint; in Congressional, the liberal philosophy wins on promises of expansion of services.
As a result, we look to Washington for a compromise. It does not mean we have a split personality, or that we all want something for nothing; it does mean that the people want as much as we have been getting in services for about the same we have been paying in taxes.
Because the cost of interest on our current course takes us into the red, most of us are ready to cut defense as the Soviet threat diminishes, put a cap on entitlement increases pegged roughly to inflation, and accept some sin taxes.
But a compromise was not struck between the contending philosophies. Instead, a deal was cut in the dead of a six-month night between Democratic liberals and Republican centrists that tipped the scales in the direction of a more active and expensive role of government.
That's when Newt Gingrich, the Republican whip in a House long dominated by Democrats, hollered foul. It is one thing to compromise; it is something else to lose. And the Foley-Darman-Dole deal was, by any conservative standard, a loser.
The whopping new taxes were front-loaded, imposed right away, while the nondefense spending ''cuts'' were to be end-loaded, not to kick in for years - and almost certain to be rescinded in a replay of the doublecross of President Reagan by Speaker O'Neill in 1982.
Moreover, the promised ''cuts'' were only paper reductions in the rate of increase, a far cry from actual reduction, and not even a leveling of expenditures after allowing for inflation.
With his point of view frozen out of the compromise, Mr. Gingrich gutsily said no. Every member of the House facing a tight race - lest we forget, that means those most closely attuned to the will of the people - voted with him to reject the leaders' lurch to the left.
Result: Ginglock. Newt rightly put loyalty to the party's principles ahead of Presidential discipline; Mr. Bush took a licking without flinching, later coming up off the floor with a no-contract, no-work position that holds Congress's feet to the fire.
Now what? Will the temporary furloughing of Federal workers for one day a week mean the end of civilization as we know it? Hardly; bureaucrats could volunteer to bring in the potato harvest.
As the House scrambles to find a true compromise, it may permit a partial sequester, or horse around with a soak-the-rich scheme until the election is over, or let the President exhume the Civil War's ''feed and forage'' act to run the country.
The red faces belong to those who thought they could precipitate a crisis to sell the taxpayer a bill of goods. These new Hoovers argued that only a huge tax increase could shrink the deficit and lower interest rates. But the deepening recession will lower interest rates; new taxes would make the downturn steeper and the deficit deeper.
The leadership lost because they led the nation in the direction of income redistribution, where the nation wisely does not want to go. The right way to reduce the deficit is to limit non-defense increases to the rate of inflation and to let real defense cuts sop up the red ink.
This resilient country will survive the shock of its refusal to be stampeded. Election Day is near; let's draw the tax-vs.-spending issue and put it up to the people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR) RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (76%); 



259 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
When You Believe In Lies

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
If you want to know why we have a paralyzing budget crisis, you have to go back to the golden days of Reaganism. That was the early 1980's, when the smiling President was telling us that we could cut taxes and still have it all.
A few right-wing intellectuals told the truth then. The real idea of those massive tax cuts, they said, was to bleed the Treasury white -so there would be no money for domestic spending. Ideologues like The Wall Street Journal's editorial writers said that with gleeful candor. They thought Government was bad, so we would be better off with less of it. 
Of course the official Reagan economists were not so candid. They said they had discovered a Philosopher's Stone called supply-side economics: reduce taxes, and we would have higher Government revenues and higher private saving and investment.
Those official explanations were lies. Water did not run uphill. Lower taxes brought lower revenues. The rich, made richer by Reagan policies, saved and invested less, not more.
But the American public loved the fairy story. When Walter Mondale said it was not true, the public put him down as a spoilsport. It voted for Ronald Reagan, and when George Bush stopped complaining about voodoo economics and said you could too spin straw into gold, it voted for him.
The trouble was that most Americans did not agree with the real aim of the right. They did not want a pygmy Government, they wanted the Government to do lots of things that cost money: provide medical care for the elderly, protect the environment, run national parks, control air traffic . . .
So there we are. The reality, as intended, is that the Federal Government does not have the resources it needs. But the voters will not let go of the fairy story. They want the Government to keep spending without raising taxes.
The result is political paralysis. The politicians who have to face the voters in a month - the members of the House of Representatives - do not want to deprive any citizen of a benefit or impose on any citizen a higher tax.
The problem is much harder to solve in the United States than in other democratic societies because of the nature of our political system. It is, first of all, a divided system, in which a President and Congress may - and now do - answer to different parties and ideologies. It is not a parliamentary system, in which the Prime Minister can tell her party members to toe the line or see their Government fall.
Then our system has always allowed interest groups to exercise great influence. It may seem logical to tax private airplanes when levying new taxes on luxuries. But the plane manufacturers in Kansas speak to Senator Bob Dole, and planes are exempted.
The politics of interest groups is frustrating. It tends to legislative inertia, because a few highly motivated legislators can block action. But the system, as Justice Brandeis said, was designed not to produce efficiency but to diffuse power.
In the old days there was one mediating influence. That was the political party, which could find a common denominator for legislators - a position on which a majority could stand. But parties have lost much of their meaning.
Republican members of Congress today do not have to look to President Bush. A Newt Gingrich, determined to protect the rich from even disproportionately modest tax increases, can vote against the President although he is a Republican whip. He looks for support to political action committees, and he will get it.
Does it matter? The sums involved are not very large in an economy as big as ours. But the demonstration of political will - or rather the lack of it - does matter. Europeans and Asians, the rising economic powers, are already finding confirmation of their suspicion that the United States is in decline.
Those who warn about American decline, like Prof. Paul Kennedy of Yale, are met with the indignant response that this is still the world's most powerful country militarily: Look at the Persian Gulf. But that misses Professor Kennedy's point, which is that we are not keeping our economic performance up to our commitments abroad.
One of Mr. Kennedy's critics, Prof. Joseph S. Nye Jr. of Harvard, wrote the other day that the United States need not fear decline if it simply addresses ''such domestic issues as the budget deficit, savings rate, educational system and condition of our cities.'' Exactly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PUBLIC OPINION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WRITERS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); NATIONAL PARKS (63%); AIRCRAFT MFG (60%); AGING (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR) RONALD REAGAN (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



260 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
Slicing Columbus Into Two Pieces: Person and Event

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
''It is a great pity,'' The New York Times lamented on Sept. 15, 1892, ''that the weather yesterday should have interfered with the pageant projected for the laying of the cornerstone of the monument to Columbus. Our Italian citizens are not very numerous in comparison, but they know more about getting up processions than all the rest of us put together, whatever our origin may be.''
The 400th anniversary of Columbus's landing in the Western Hemisphere was very much a national celebration in the United States. Yet in New York and a number of other large cities, it also marked an opportunity for the growing number of Italian immigrants: They staked their claim to an American hero whom they helped elevate, despite the efforts of some native-born Americans to lionize Leif Ericsson as emblematic of an immigrant group and of a religion that seemed less threatening. 
Built largely with contributions from readers of an Italian-language newspaper, the 13-foot-high marble statue of Columbus atop a 26-foot granite column was unveiled in time for the city's Oct. 12 celebration in 1892. Nearly a century later, the monument, in Columbus Circle in Manhattan, is encased in scaffolding as it undergoes a $275,000 restoration paid for by the Columbus Citizens Foundation, an Italian-American civic and philanthropic group, and by P. Sasso e Figli, an Italian olive oil company.
While revisionists no longer credit Columbus with actually discovering America, and some argue that the chief consequence of his voyages was to open the Western Hemisphere to European plunder, he is still a hero to many Italian-Americans. In contrast with celebrations a century ago, the explorer is being claimed more aggressively, too, by people of Hispanic heritage.
Columbus was Italian-born, but Queen Isabella of Spain paid his bill.
The annual Columbus celebration is emerging as an opportunity for Hispanic-Americans to assert themselves culturally and politically. Moreover the Spanish Government views the Columbus quincentenary, coupled with the Olympic Games in Spain in 1992, as a vehicle to redefine its image in the Americas from one of conquest and conversion to one of a democractic partner in a revitalized Europe.
''The Spanish are in the process of trying to win Columbus back,'' said Joseph M. Laufer, who teaches at Burlington County College in New Jersey and publishes a newsletter about the quincentenary.
A separate Hispanic heritage parade is scheduled for Manhattan next Sunday. But so far the Hispanic influence on today's Columbus Day extravaganza, organized by the Columbus Citizens Foundation, has been negligible.
''The bottom line is he was from Genoa,'' said Vincent Tese, the foundation's president and the State Economic Development Commissioner, appointed by Mario M. Cuomo, the first Italian-American elected Governor of New York. ''Hispanic-Americans celebrate the event more than the person, whereas we celebrate the person more than the event.''
Political empowerment came slowy for Italian-Americans. Only two have been elected Mayor of New York City - Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934 and Vincent R. Impellitteri in 1950.
No Italian-American has won citywide since Mario A. Procaccino was elected Comptroller in 1965 (none of Hispanic origin have won citywide at all yet), although Italian-American candidates, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, among them, have fared better in the suburbs.
In 1980 about 14 percent of New York City residents described themselves as of primarily Italian heritage. Nearly 20 percent said they were of Hispanic heritage. Since then the number of new Italian immigrants has been nearly imperceptible, while Spanish-speakers constituted fully a third of all legal immigrants to the city in much of the 1980's.
A float depicts Columbus sailing under the Spanish flag, but the major Hispanic-oriented contribution to today's parade, which features flag throwers from Florence, Italy, and Tommy Lasorda, the Los Angeles Dodgers manager, as grand marshal, may be a contingent of jousting knights from the Medieval Times Restaurant in Lyndhurst, N.J. But the parade is becoming even more inclusive.
''The basis of the parade,'' said Alfred F. Calabro, the chairman of today's march up Fifth Avenue and a member of the Columbus Citizens Foundation, ''has been to perpetuate the honor of Christopher Columbus and to preserve Italian ancestry.
''We started to realize, though, that Columbus belongs to all Americans The foundation is the custodian of the history of the Columbus, but this is no longer an Italian ethnic parade.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ERICY (NASDAQ) (53%); ERI (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SPAIN (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ERICSSON AS (69%); COLUMBUS CITIZENS FOUNDATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ITALIAN-AMERICANS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); CHARITIES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); RELIGION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); OLYMPICS (50%); 

PERSON: COLUMBUS, CHRISTOPHER (1451-1506); ROBERTS, SAM



261 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Joins With Deputies For More Cuts

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins and his top deputies and aides huddled at Gracie Mansion yesterday, discussing New York City's deepening fiscal problems and how best to explain them to the public after a troubled week of seemingly conflicting signals from City Hall.
''We think we do have a plan,'' one senior aide said. ''We've got to figure out how we articulate that plan, just what steps do we take, and what window do we have until we have to make definite decisions.''
But even as they sought to regain control of the debate prompted by their actions last week, which ended with Mr. Dinkins saying he was considering the layoff of 15,000 city workers, the Mayor and his aides faced the challenge of making still more difficult decisions to cut spending to close a budget gap for the coming fiscal year that they estimate at $1.4 billion. 
 
Cuts for Building Projects
The Dinkins administration must present such plans as part of its scheduled quarterly report to the State Financial Control Board on Nov. 1, and in its 10-year plan for capital building projects, required to be issued by November under the new City Charter.
The administration, some senior aides said, is expected to detail its plans, perhaps later this week, for cutting outlays for building projects like roads, parks and bridges to reduce mounting debt-service costs. Cuts in some agencies could range up to 25 percent, mayoral aides have said.
Of all the recent bad fiscal news, some experts say trimming the capital budget -which is financed by long-term bonds, was built up painfully and proudly after the city fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's and has been mostly immune to the recent cuts in other city programs - is the most telling sign of the problems that lie ahead. The Citizens Budget Commission, a watchdog group financed by businesses, recently issued a report calling for the city to cut its capital commitments by 20 percent, or an average of $1 billion a year, by eliminating low-priority projects or stretching out 10-year goals over a 12-year period.
The commission said it had reluctantly concluded that ''the city's current program is not affordable in light of new economic conditions'' of stagnancy and slipping revenues. If building continued on pace, the report said, the cost of debt service on capital bonds, which must be paid out of annual operating revenues, would climb to $5.9 billion in fiscal 1999 from $2.1 billion now.
Officials have said virtually the only agency to be exempted from the cuts in capital spending would be the Correction Department, which under Mr. Dinkins's proposed anti-crime program would have to build about 3,000 jail beds in the next few years.
 
'All Kinds of Problems'
Making his official rounds between meetings with aides yesterday, Mr. Dinkins took note of the challenges facing him.
''As you doubtless know, since you read the papers, we are inundated with all kinds of problems,'' he said at an anniversary celebration at the House of the Lord Pentecostal Church in Brooklyn, where the pastor is his ally, the Rev. Herbert Daughtry.
The political pressures on the Mayor were intense, from fiscal monitors and other elected officials, as well as editorial boards and the local teamsters union, which took a largely symbolic vote to authorize a strike over the layoff threat.
 
A New Review Panel
Over the weekend, Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation - a state watchdog agency set up during the fiscal crisis to issue bonds on the city's behalf when its own near insolvency barred it from the credit markets - suggested that the city's current problems should be reviewed by a new panel made up of the Governor, the Mayor, union officials and business leaders.
For his part, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said that the state would give the city's actions increased scrutiny, and that the Speaker of the City Council, Peter F. Vallone, should have a role in handling the problems. Mr. Vallone saw Mr. Cuomo at a Columbus Day ball Saturday evening and insisted then that the Council should play a role, though it was not clear in precisely what forum, a senior Council aide said yesterday.
The Mayor met early yesterday morning with First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel and the Mayor's top political aide, Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch, and again late yesterday afternoon with them and others, including the Mayor's press secretary, Albert Scardino; the Corporation Counsel, Victor A. Kovner, and other deputy mayors.
 
'Overloaded' Circuits
Mr. Scardino said: ''The issue is not whether there's anything different to be done. The issue is why haven't we been able to make ourselves clear. A remarkable series of events in one week has overloaded everybody's circuits.''
''None of this was unanticipated,'' Mr. Scardino said, referring to a week that began with agreement on a 5.5 percent pay raise for teachers and $1.8 billion in proposed new taxes over the next four years to finance a plan to hire thousands of police officers and expand the criminal-justice system, and ended with a partial hiring freeze and the threat of layoffs.
''It was a clear and deliberate attempt to accomplish these various items by this week,'' he said. ''This administration has shown it can make the difficult decisions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATE FINANCIAL BANK-WATERFORD (55%); CITY COUNCIL (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); BONDS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); PRISONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S DAVID N DINKINS (90%); GRACIE MANSION (74%); ALBERT SCARDINO (61%); PETER F VALLONE (56%); 



262 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: University Links Its Future To a New Face in Hartford

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: STORRS, Conn., Oct. 3

 BODY:
Administrators at the University of Connecticut well remember the euphoria of Husky fever that swept through the campus and much of the state last spring as the men's basketball team clinched its first-ever Big East championship. It was just about the same time that the janitorial staff stopped cleaning most buildings because of state budget cutbacks.
In many minds here those two developments are intimately related. With a new governor taking office in Hartford in January, a state budget bleeding with red ink and an economy slumping throughout the region, the belief that the University of Connecticut's sports success has won it a pool of good will and emotional enthusiasm has become a straw to be clutched at and held onto. 
''There is a pride in the University of Connecticut when I talk to legislators - from both parties, from both houses, and the executive branch - that we used to have to work on before,'' said the university's interim president, Harry J. Hartley. ''And while it may have been basketball that gained us the initial entree, I'm smart enough to ride whatever horse gets me to the destination of selling UConn.''
But for the moment, the daily reality here at the school's main campus in the northeast corner of the state is that much of what the future seems to hold is not that promising. It is the largest public university in the state, but the university still has no permanent president, for example. The last one, John T. Casteen 3d, resigned last March in part, he said, because of doubts he had about the state's long-term commitment to public higher education.
Dr. Hartley, a former vice president for finance, said whether he will even seek a permanent appointment will somewhat depend on whether he becomes convinced that the state will support the school in the tough times to come. Even basketball is in question, since the team's star forward, Nadav Henefeld, returned to his native Israel.
''We're in a waiting mode,'' said Lois Post, the university's acting director of development. ''You don't know who's going to be the president for sure, and that will affect what the university is. And you don't know who's going to be governor, and that might have some effect on who the president is.''
In the meantime, there is the question of money. On Oct. 1, for example, state budget officers in Hartford announced an immediate 5 percent spending cut. Some agencies, like the Department of Income Maintenance, which oversees the welfare system, and the Department of Correction, which handles the prison system, were spared. Higher education was not spared, a fact that many people here took as an omen of things to come.
 
Sparing the Academic Side
The cuts will be concentrated, as previous ones have also been, on the university's physical plant department. The idea, officials said, has been to spare the academic side at all costs, and muddle through on the rest as much as possible. The university's appropriation from the state, $141 million this year, has already been reduced by $6.4 million since the fiscal year began on July 1. The 113-member maintenance staff is down by 54 positions.
Even the fact that higher education spending has not become a major issue in the gubernatorial campaign is seen as ominous. The fear here is that the silence reflects a consensus among the candidates that higher education could be devastated when the new governor moves to resolve a budget gap next year that could be as large as $1 billion in a budget of only $7 billion.
Two of three major candidates for governor, for example, Representative Bruce A. Morrison, the Democrat, and Representative John G. Rowland, the Republican, have already flatly said that the higher education budget request of $469 million for next year - a 14.4 percent spending increase over last year - will almost certainly be unobtainable. The request calls for $159 million for the university.
Avice A. Meehan, a spokeswoman for the third candidate, former United States Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr., who is running as an independent, said he would not ''second-guess'' the request, because he had not fully examined it.
 
Drawing Out-of-State Students
The university faces other questions. This year's 2,400-member freshman class, for example, includes the highest number of out-of-state students of any class in the university's history, 23.7 percent. Admissions officials say some students are coming in response to even deeper state spending cuts at some other public schools in the Northeast, especially in Massachusetts.
The university wants to keep that advantage, especially since the number of high school graduates in the Northeast is expected to shrink in the 1990's. In a time of increased competition among state universities, avoiding further cutbacks and maintaining a reputation for academic quality will be critical, admissions officials argue. Total enrollment at the university, according to preliminary estimates, was about flat this fall, at 25,500 students, compared to 25,634 last year.
''I paid another $7,000 to come here,'' said Erica Brynes, a 17-year-old pre-business major from Cranston, R.I. Miss Brynes said she looked first at her own state's top public school, the University of Rhode Island, but concluded that the University of Connecticut had suffered less from cutbacks, especially in the business school.
 
Squeeeze From Tuition Rises
And some fear that tuition increases last year, which pushed total costs to $7,172 for in-state student living on campus, and $14,300 for an out-of-state student, is already squeezing out many of the middle-income students on which the university has historically depended. Room-and-board rates for residents, for instance, rose 19.3 percent this year, to $2,028. Tuition alone rose more than 15 percent.
''It's something that the next governor has got to think about,'' said Ann L. Huckenbeck, the director of admissions. ''Connecticut exports over 50 percent of its high school graduates to out-of-state institutions, and the literature confirms that people tend to stay where they get their undergraduate degrees.'' ''It's a brain drain,'' she said. Among the students who are here, attitudes about the governor's race commonly ranged from cynicism to apathy, even though many people acknowleged that financing for the university could be at stake.
''I get the feeling that even if you get someone in there who's really going to pull for more money,'' said Peter Lowe, 27, a graduate student in literature, ''it'll somehow get lost in political transit and there won't be any more money.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about budget problems at the University of Connecticut misidentified a graduate student who spoke about higher education as an issue in Connecticut's race for governor. He is Peter Rowe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ELECTION ISSUES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); PRISONS (60%); 

PERSON: MORRISON, BRUCE A (REPR); ROWLAND, JOHN G (REPR); JOHNSON, KIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



263 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Facing Their Own Recession, Regional Stages Tighten Belts

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL

 BODY:
At the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, they've shortened their rehearsal periods, cut down their casts and dropped their play-reading and seminar series.
At the Goodman Theater in Chicago, all tickets left at the box office by 6 P.M. are immediately sold at half price.
At the Old Globe Theater in San Diego, they've entered into a co-production agreement with the Hartford Stage Company to produce A. R. Gurney's ''Snow Ball'' this season because they couldn't afford to do it alone.
In these and other ways, nonprofit regional theaters are seeking to offset serious cutbacks in corporate funding and a decline in subscription sales as the threat of recession is felt across the United States. Although theaters in the Northeast have been hit hardest, the pinch is being felt by almost everyone, says Tom Hall, president of the League of Resident Theaters, known as LORT. The exception is the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, which he says ''has a huge corporate community base of giving no other theater in the country has.'' Mr. Hall, who is also the managing director of the Old Globe in San Diego, says that while his theater has just had its best year in the last 10, ''there is no future of growth ahead of us.'' 
''LORT has existed for the last 25 years and, up until five or six years ago, flourished in fits and starts,'' Mr. Hall says. ''But since then we've seen the membership go from 80 theaters down to 68, with the Actors Theater of St. Paul the most recent casualty in the last six months.''
The irony of the situation, he says, is that ''as Broadway shows a decline in providing employment, artists are looking to LORT to pick up the slack just as the financial universe is shrinking.'' Indeed, meetings of the Dramatists Guild will take place this week to decide how to persuade LORT to agree on a contract for its membership.
 
New Ways of Coping
But if the financial universe is shrinking, it is not quite disappearing. To replace the corporate money lost through mergers and hard times, concentrated drives for individual contributions have proved successful wherever they have been implemented.
''We're putting as much energy and time as we can into getting money from our nearest and dearest - the people who are really using the theater today,'' says David Hawkanson, managing director of the Hartford Stage Company. ''When times are tough, they are the ones who really understand.''
Michael Maso, managing director of the Huntington Theater Company in Boston, agrees. ''Our subscribers are very loyal and responsive to our needs in terms of gifts,'' he says. ''Individual contributions have kept growing despite the recession.''
Co-production, which splits costs between two or more theaters and doubles or triples a paying audience, is becoming much more common. At the La Jolla Playhouse, says its managing director, Alan Levy, co-productions of musicals with the Orange County Arts Center are an effective way to amortize expenses. ''They have a 3,000-seat house, and we can only have limited runs here,'' he says. ''So we develop the work, then use their venue. That partnership allows us at no risk to continue producing our own work without having to generate additional contributed income.''
The theaters are also learning to be less rigid about selling subscriptions, since the younger audiences they are trying to cultivate do not like making plans six months in advance.
''There's been a basic change in the metabolism of theatergoers,'' says Robert J. Orchard, managing director of the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass. ''The older, more established audience was brought up on a subscription system. They liked having specific seats and buying them at the heaviest possible discount well in advance. The younger generation has more difficulty planning. They want a spontaneous approach, though they still want more of an alliance with us than single-ticket sales give them. So we have an alternative subscription where you can pick three out of five shows, which is more accommodating to their life style and mood.''
 
Promoting Single Tickets
The Guthrie's executive director, Ed Martenson, says his theater goes a step further. ''The backbone of our marketing effort is packaging and targeting,'' he says. ''In addition to our regular subscription, if we can identify a group of people who have an affinity for just three of the plays, we will.'' He cited one package, a series of five plays for singles, complete with food and drinks served afterward, that attracted 300 buyers.
Still, there are people who will commit only to a single-ticket buy. And much as it goes against the grain of a nonprofit-theater mentality - and budget - to run a marketing campaign geared toward single-ticket buying, it is happening more and more as theaters struggle to fill their seats.
''We've had a soft subscription campaign this year,'' says Mr. Hall of the Old Globe. ''The ticket-buyers are still there, but they're not planning ahead to spend their cash. That means that we're having to spend more on single-ticket advertising. It's much more cost-effective to sell subscriptions.''
Paula Tomei, general manager of the South Coast Repertory Theater in Costa Mesa, Calif., agreed. ''We encourage single-ticket buying, but we do try to convert the single-ticket buyers of the first one or two shows of the season into subscribers,'' she says. ''With the extra ad dollars it takes to sell single tickets, it's cheaper to renew a subscriber.''
Every effort is made to accommodate single-ticket buyers at the Goodman Theater in Chicago, and then some. The Goodman's producing director, Roche Schulfer, says, ''We've decided that the world is made up of either subscribers or budget-seeking single-ticket buyers. There's nothing in the middle.'' The theater's Tix at Six program, which sells any unsold seats, as well as the notorious subscriber no-shows at 8 P.M., always draws lines. ''At 6 P.M., any unsold tickets go to half-price, no questions asked,'' Mr. Schulfer says. ''It's an idea we stole from Joe Papp and the Public Theater four seasons ago, and we have a very strong following for it. With it, we were able to achieve 100 percent capacity last year.''
The Quicktix program, as it is called at the Public in Manhattan, is still thriving. But the general manager, Bob MacDonald, says the theater has dropped its pass-holder campaign, which allowed anyone who made a contribution to buy tickets at a 30 to 40 percent discount. Although it would appear that the program was too much of a good thing for pass-holders and not one for the theater, Joseph Papp says the program was dropped to make way for a new, younger audience. The theater has begun what Mr. Papp characterized as ''a very expensive direct marketing campaign'' to re-establish the Public as an institutional theater with a subscription season after past individual commercial successes like ''A Chorus Line.''
 
Corporate Focus Shifting
While many nonprofit theaters - La Jolla, Old Globe, Seattle Repertory Theater and Hartford Stage among them - acknowledge a drop in corporate contributions, the Guthrie does not. ''There's no evidence here yet that a recession or the threat of it has affected the picture,'' Mr. Martenson says, ''though there's an awful lot of talk about it.'' He also said that of the roughly $3 million raised by his theater for general operating expenses this year, $1 million came from corporations.
But the Guthrie is a special case. Paul Libin, producing director of Circle in the Square in New York City, points out that not only are there fewer corporate dollars to spend, but that corporate sponsors have also shifted their focus away from the arts to environmental, educational and community programs. ''The shopping list is always changing,'' he says. ''And with all the corporate mergers over the last few years, the support is cut way back anyway. You can seemingly lose the money overnight. They abandon you.''
Though theaters like the Trinity Repertory in Providence, R.I., and the South Coast Repertory cite a rise in corporate support caused by concentrated campaigns by board members, others have had to find new ways to stretch their budgets. Edgar Rosenblum, executive director of the Long Wharf Theater, says, ''We've cut things that don't really hurt us, but they do put the pressure on.'' Though no productions have been canceled, he says, ''We have cut props, sets and costumes, and we have cut three days out of the six-week rehearsal period. We've curtailed the number of people in the plays, and we've dropped our play-reading and seminar series. We've also limited salary increases to 3 percent, so everyone had to take a slight cut. But we didn't lay anyone off.''
The key for any theater's survival in lean times, concludes Mr. Levy of La Jolla, is creativity in the ways it goes about obtaining both its earned and contributed income. ''Any support for the theater that's out there, we try to get, whether its from one local person or a national corporation that may not know us,'' he says. ''We constantly ask for support from everyone. Now is not the time to be shy.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marquees and logos of some nonprofit regional theaters whose financing has declined.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LEAGUE OF RESIDENT THEATERS (81%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REPERTORY AND RESIDENT THEATERS; FINANCES; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION) TICKET SALES (90%); THEATER (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (50%); 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



264 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
United Airlines' unions said they had failed to persuade enough banks to finance their bid for the airline's parent company, forcing them to present a bid with less cash than the $2 billion they had sought. [Page D1.]
 
Ford and the United Automobile Workers union reached a tentative wage agreement that covers 100,000 workers. [A8.] 
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Congressional leaders put a new deficit-reduction plan together and took it before their colleagues in a scramble to end the budget deadlock and get the Federal Government back in full operation by the start of the new work week tomorrow. [A1.]
 
Counterfeiters and forgers are taking advantage of the growing ability of personal computers to produce sophisticated-looking documents, security experts and banking officials say. [A1.]
 
Many changes will be needed to revive the nuclear industry, and experts say the number of changes necessary is growing. [D2.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The European Community is close to reaching an agreement with Tokyo to restrict Japanese car imports for five years. But Europe's auto makers are battling to scuttle the accord because they think it is not nearly tough enough. [D1.]
 
A stock scandal in Tokyo reached the highest levels of the financial industry, as the chairman of the Sumitomo Bank said he would resign to take responsibility after a bank official was implicated in a plan to provide illegal loans to a corporate raider. [D1.]
 
The economists who made Chile's free market revolution are now being sought by many countries to advise on topics like privatization, debt management and fighting poverty. [D4.]
 
Venezuela is improving its oil quality by deeper drilling from a large new oilfield in the eastern part of the country. [D4.]
 
A Pakistani company has moved to the center of the sports equipment business. [D4.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
 
Nielsen's report of an unexpectedly sharp drop in the national television audience last winter has altered the accepted view of reality for the networks. News Analysis. [D1.]
 
Once again, the networks lack a new hit for the fall television season. Indeed, the only hit so far this season is ''The Civil War'' on nonprofit PBS. Television. [D7.]
 
Magazine publishers are flaunting their optimism while soft-pedaling fears about the health of their industry as they assemble at a resort in Arizona for the American Magazine Conference. [D7.]
 
Health and well-being make up a fast-growing catagory of book publishing, and the imprimatur of well-known medical institutions and organizations is eagerly sought by publishers. [D7.]
 
Eastern Airlines begins a campaign this week that will not feature Martin R. Shugrue Jr., the court-appointed trustee who has been the star of its advertising for the last four months. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D8.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Although much of the economy is deteriorating, capital spending - the investments that companies make into factories, offices, stores, machinery and other equipment - appears to be holding its own. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
 
Beyond the political theater over the Federal budget lies one stark deadline for the credit markets: the United States Government will be in default on its debt obligations if a budget accord is not reached by Thursday. Credit Markets. [D6.]
 
Great Western Financial of California has quickly built a large presence in Florida by purchasing the deposits and branches of several savings institutions there. Analysts say the strategy bodes well for Great Western because Florida is considered an excellent market for savings institutions. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GWF (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (84%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (50%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); PUBLISHING (85%); WORK WEEK (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COUNTERFEITING (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (67%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); NETWORK TELEVISION (67%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); BOOK PUBLISHING (60%); LABOR UNIONS (58%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (55%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 



265 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Empire's 'Junk' Tactic

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HONG KONG

 BODY:
Li Ka-shing has built a multibillion-dollar fortune and a business empire by trusting his instincts rather than the crowd's. But for all his contrarian savvy, his attempt to burst into the United States by purchasing the $3 billion ''junk bond'' portfolio of the Columbia Savings and Loan Association is raising more eyebrows here than cheers.
For the time being, the United States Government has halted the transaction because regulators did not approve of the loan Columbia Savings, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., would be making to Mr. Li's group. But negotiations are continuing, and Mr. Li seems determined to buy the bond package. Through a spokesman, Mr. Li refused to be interviewed.
His determination highlights a sensitive challenge facing Chinese executives in this nervous British colony. As they spirit some, if not most, of their billions of dollars in capital out of Hong Kong before China takes over in 1997, will they also be able to export their money-spinning wizardry to the United States? 
 
Periscope on Corporate America
''The big factor in the deal is that it would give us a periscope into corporate America,'' said Simon Murray, a wiry Briton with a dry wit who is group managing director of Mr. Li's flagship conglomerate, the publicly traded Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.
The United States has a far more competitive market, where the informal networks that tie together and control Hong Kong's economy do not reach.
Mr. Murray emphasized, nonetheless, that Mr. Li could not afford not to look to the United States as a potential home for some of his assets.
''We'd like to have a position in the U.S., but there are different rules in that game,'' Mr. Murray said, acknowledging that wandering outside the cozy confines of Hong Kong was easier said than done. ''It sounds immodest to say that Hong Kong is getting too small for us, but the walls are getting close. We don't have much choice.''
 
Delicacy of the Situation
Making the situation even more delicate is that confidence in Hong Kong may be shattered if it appears that business leaders like Mr. Li are pulling up stakes.
''His options are limited by his profile,'' said John Mulcahy, an analyst at Peregrine Brokerage Ltd., a firm in which Mr. Li has an investment. ''The impact on market sentiment if people thought he was really pulling out would be devastating.''
Undaunted, Mr. Li, who is 62 years old, has placed himself at the vanguard of those determined to gain a foothold in the largest, one of the safest and one of the most open economies in the world. That determination could eventually have a big impact on both Hong Kong and the United States, because of the tens of billions of dollars his companies control.
Mr. Li and various public and private interests he controls are a 50 percent partner in the group that won the bidding for Columbia Savings' junk bonds. With the market for such bonds nearly comatose, describing Mr. Li's move as being against the grain would be an understatement.
 
Potentially Attractive Terms
The deal, nonetheless, had potentially attractive terms. Mr. Li and his partner, Gordon Investment, a Canadian investment concern, would have put down just 10 percent, or $300 million, in cash. The remainder would have come in the form of a 10-year loan from Columbia, which lost $430 million in the first half of the year.
The $3 billion price tag was $70 million over the estimated market value at the time of the bid. At its peak, Columbia's junk bond portfolio had a face value of about $4.5 billion.
''I worry that they're going into something that they don't understand,'' said Marc Faber, an investment adviser here who previously ran the Hong Kong office of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., which sold most of the junk bonds to Columbia Savings. ''They are very good, but what do they know about managing a junk bond portfolio?''
''I would prefer they stay in Hong Kong, where they have the expertise,'' said Steven So, an analyst here with Jardine Fleming Securities.
 
Further Drop in Bonds' Value
Joe Bencivenga, head of high-yield research at Salomon Brothers in New York and a former junk bond analyst at Drexel, said the value of the bonds had dropped another $200 million since the bidding. ''They need to have a 5-to-10-year horizon to make this work,'' he commented.
As Mr. Murray emphasized in his office overlooking the Hong Kong harbor, this move would be not an investment play but an essential part of the group's future as it seeks to escape the uncertainty of Hong Kong.
It is also, Mr. Murray added, part of the testing of the next generation of leadership at the company; a key figure in it was Richard Li, Mr. Li's 23-year-old, American-educated son.
''Some people have expressed their doubts about the sons,'' Mr. Mulcahy said, ''but K. S. still has the final say. He's exposing them to the front line.''
 
Loans to 300 Companies
The acquisition would instantly make this canny entrepreneur a big lender to more than 300 large American companies, people familiar with the portfolio's contents said .
The companies, they said, range from RJR Nabisco to McCaw Cellular Communications, Pacific Lumber and Wickes. The deal would give Mr. Li access to potentially large amounts of inside data - as well as the responsibility for helping keep the companies afloat in difficult times.
''It is a good opportunity, but it will require an immense amount of manpower,'' said one Wall Street expert who had studied the portfolio. ''There are going to be numerous workouts, bankruptcies and other negotiations associated with these securities.''
 
Possible Acquisitions Studied
Mr. Murray said Hutchison Whampoa had already studied possible acquisitions like Pan Am, Hilton Hotels and CSX, the transportation concern.
Despite its reputation as a bastion of free markets, Hong Kong's economy is actually a series of semi-monopolies and cartels, analysts contend. Much of Mr. Li's fortune was created from and is invested in such situations.
Mr. Li's background is like that of many Hong Kong entrepreneurs; he is a refugee from China. He left his family's home in southern China in 1940, and 10 years later had opened a factory, riding the crest of the first wave of industrialization in Hong Kong - making plastic flowers. That business provided him the capital to make his move, eight years later, into property investment, where he built his fortune, now estimated at $2 billion to $3 billion.
 
Member of Informal Cartel
By the early 1980's his principal real estate concern, the publicly traded Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., in which he owns about 40 percent, was an industry leader. It is now a member of what analysts here describe as a sort of informal cartel that orchestrates the supply of apartments to the market every year to insure that supply will not slacken.
When Mr. Li bought control of Hutchison Whampoa - one of the old British trading companies, or hongs - he gained control of one of two leading retailers here and a more-than-60-percent share in the business of loading and unloading containers at what is one of the largest ports in the world. Later, Mr. Li acquired a large stake in a Government-sanctioned monopoly, Hongkong Electric Holdings, a power company.
In recognition of his position as a pre-eminent business figure, Mr. Li holds the title of non-executive deputy chairman of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which dominates finance here.
 
Steps Taken Into Canada
Mr. Li has also taken several big steps into Canada, acquiring 43 percent of Husky Oil Operations Ltd. and buying a 204-acre site in downtown Vancouver, British Columbia, where the 1986 World's Fair was held. He is building, in a project in which his other son, 26-year-old Victor, is heavily involved, a $1.7 billion development at the site that will include more than 7,000 housing units and two million square feet of office space.
Recently, Hutchison has invested heavily in telecommunications. It now dominates the paging and cellular phone businesses here and is a big investor in Asiasat I, a satellite sent into orbit aboard a Chinese rocket earlier this year. Its signal will reach from Karachi, Pakistan, to Tokyo -more than two billion people.
It is an impressive history and array of businesses, but it has still been difficult to get American investment experts to take the company seriously, Mr. Murray complained. One of Mr. Li's problems in moving to the United States, he added, is that Wall Street investment bankers still do not bring him their best deals.
''We're an afterthought for some of these people,'' Mr. Murray said. ''They say, 'There's this guy in Hong Kong named K. S. Li who has got a lot of bread. He'll buy anything.' We have to find a way in that allows us to do the negotiated deals. That's what we hope this deal will do for us.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''We'd like to have a position in the U.S., but there are different rules in that game,'' said Simon Murray, group managing director of Hutchison Whampoa, the publicly traded flagship company of Li Ka-shing. (Hutchison Whampoa) (pg. D1); Li Ka-shing, chairman of Hutchison Whamboa of Hong Kong, is trying to burst into the United States business arena. (Associated Press) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0013 (HKSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSN; HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD; GORDON INVESTMENT CORP

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; LI KA-SHING LI KA-SHING (94%); 



266 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Cigarette Makers Try To Brake a Slide

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE

 BODY:
Here in tobacco country, the notion that Washington is almost certain to raise Federal taxes on cigarettes has some people smiling.
Among them are executives of the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation, the nation's third-largest cigarette maker and one of the leading sellers of discount brands like Viceroy, Raleigh and Richland. Smokers tend to buy more of these cheaper brands as the overall prices of cigarettes and other consumer items rise.
Brown & Williamson is even betting that discount brands could so stimulate demand that they could help pull the cigarette industry out of its long sales decline.
 
A Tax Rise Likely
The Federal excise tax on cigarettes is now 16 cents a pack. As part of a budget compromise that the House defeated on Friday, Congressional and White House negotiators had agreed to raise the tax by 4 cents next year and another 4 cents in 1993. It is not clear what will emerge from new budget negotiations, but a cigarette-tax increase remains highly likely, industry experts say. 
As the tobacco company most dependent on sales of discount brands, Brown & Williamson, which is based in Louisville, has less to lose and possibly more to gain than its competitors.
The brands can cost as little as $1.10 a pack, compared with $2.35 or more for full-price cigarettes like Marlboros by Philip Morris Inc., in highly taxed states like New York. The industry refers to the lower-price brands as generic cigarettes because they were sold in black-and-white packages with no-name labels when the Liggett Group first popularized them in in the early 1980's.
 
'Branded' Generics
But it did not take long for cigarette makers to realize they could increase sales by marketing ''branded'' generics. Now, about 61.5 percent of generic cigarettes are not generic at all.
About one out of six packs of all cigarettes now sold is a low-price brand. Even before the proposed rise in cigarette taxes, analysts were saying that discounts could account for one in four packs in a few years.
Makers of higher-priced cigarettes often say that consumers get what they pay for in low-cost brands. But the costs for tobacco, paper and other raw materials in all cigarettes are modest compared to the enormous profit. Even after deep discounting, for example, cigarette companies can earn 42 cents in gross profit for a pack, compared with 66 cents a pack for the full-price brands, according to Marc I. Cohen, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
 
A Rise in Market Share
Selling cheap American cigarettes has helped Brown & Williamson's business substantially. Besides Philip Morris and tiny Liggett, it is the only large cigarette company to have increased its market share, according to John C. Maxwell Jr., an analyst with Wheat First Securities. In the 12 months ended June 30, Brown & Williamson's share rose to 11.2 percent from 10.2 percent, a substantial performance in a declining market.
Brown & Williamson's success is built on turning moribund full-price brands like Viceroy and Raleigh into discount lines, and on introducing new discount brands like Richland.
Brown & Williamson is a unit of the London-based B.A.T Industries, one of the world's largest conglomerates, and the world's second-largest tobacco company, after Philip Morris. The cigarette subsidiary posted a 1989 profit of about $587 million, up 25 percent, on a 19 percent rise in revenue to about $5.2 billion. Much of Brown & Williamson's profit and revenue came from the United States.
Cigarette makers and securities analysts say Brown & Williamson's success is no isolated case. The best-selling, indeed the only, new products in the last two years have been discount cigarettes. They have had uninterrupted growth for the last eight years as the price of cigarettes in general has risen steeply.
Even so, some researchers suggest that steep tax increases will further reduce smoking, as people faced with the higher prices either quit or do not start. Industry experts respond that most of those studies were done four or five years ago, when discount cigarettes were not widely available. Today, generic cigarettes account for more than four billion packs a year, or about 16 percent of the market.
 
Targeted Populations
Although only 29.1 percent of adults in 1987 smoked, down from 40.4 percent in 1965, it is far from clear whether smoking is on the road to extinction.
In fact, tobacco companies are looking for the industry to pull out of its sales decline, perhaps as soon as the mid-1990's. The availability of discount cigarettes will help. But more important, further population growth in the groups likely to want discount cigarettes will help even more. These groups include retired people on fixed incomes, the poor and working class in general, and, in particular, poor members of minority groups between 15 and 24 years old, when many people begin smoking.
The general population trend is that there are fewer and fewer young people to start smoking, but the Census Bureau projections say that minority groups will be an exception. The number of blacks age 15 to 24 will rise to 5.5 million in 1995 from 5.4 million in 1990. Similarly, the number of Hispanics in the same age group will rise to 3.8 million from 3.7 million. The trends are expected to continue into the next century.
 
A Boon to the Industry
Some anti-smoking activists reluctantly agree that discount cigarettes will be a boon to the industry. ''It's the wave of the future,'' said Phillip Wilbur, a director of the Advocacy Institute, a public policy and health advocacy group.
Raymond J. Pritchard, chairman and chief executive of Brown & Williamson, said, ''You don't need to be a genius to see growth in generics if the excise tax goes up.''
''One would expect with more people unemployed and with less disposable income,'' Mr. Pritchard continued, ''one would see people shopping for more discount brands than when everyone is flush with money.''
 
Discreet Enticements
Like other companies, Brown & Williamson does not heavily advertise its discount line. Instead it spends much of its marketing budget on cents-off coupons, ''buy one get one free'' promotions, and even on trading stamps to be saved and exchanged for free or discount-priced merchandise.
Last year, close to 40 percent of the 58.5 billion cigarettes Brown & Williamson sold were discount brands. By contrast, discount brands were only 11 percent of Philip Morris's sales and 21 percent of RJR Nabisco's, although these larger companies sold a greater number of discount cigarettes over all.
In August, Brown & Williamson won on appeal a lawsuit filed by Liggett, the smallest of the nation's six cigarette makers and one that is intent on diversifying out of tobacco. Liggett accused Brown & Williamson of engaging in ''predatory pricing'' by undercutting its prices on generic cigarettes, a field that Liggett helped pioneer, especially with its Pyramid cigarettes. The victory reversed a $149 million damage claim against Brown & Williamson, and analysts now project even greater price competition among makers of discount cigarettes.
For Brown & Williamson, branded generics like Richland have helped lift sales 12 percent, to more than six million cigarettes in the first half of this year.
The strategy has also helped its old brands, such as Viceroy, introduced in 1936. Once an also-ran, Viceroy jumped from 24th in sales in 1988 to 16th in 1989 on the basis of a price cut.
Earlier this summer, Brown & Willamson cut prices on a version of its Raleigh brand, first introduced in 1928.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''You don't need to be a genius to see growth in generics if the excise tax goes up,'' said Raymond J. Pritchard, chairman and chief executive of Brown & Williamson, the nation's third-largest cigarette maker. (Keith Williams for The New York Times); Graph: Brown & Williamson's 1989 cigarette sales (Source: Maxwell Consumer Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RAI (NYSE) (94%); MO (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (94%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (94%); SIC2121 CIGARS (94%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (82%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (82%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (61%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (73%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (56%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (94%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (92%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (82%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP

SUBJECT: SMOKING; TAXATION; EXCISE TAXES; GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; SALES; CIGARETTES TOBACCO MFG (94%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TOBACCO FARMING (78%); BRANDING (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY



267 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Sumitomo Chief Quits Over Scandal

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 7

 BODY:
A simmering stock scandal reached the highest levels of the financial industry here today, with the chairman of the giant Sumitomo Bank announcing he would resign to take responsibility after an official of his bank was implicated in a plan to provide illegal loans to a corporate raider.
The chairman of the bank, Ichiro Isoda, shocked many people with the announcement two days after a former Sumitomo branch manager was arrested on charges that he accepted almost $750,000 for arranging $170 million in improper loans for the well-known and politically influential corporate raider, Matsuhiro Kotani. Mr. Kotani was indicted in August for stock manipulation.
The resignation of the 77-year-old banker, one of Japan's most powerful, was regarded as a humiliating and potentially harmful blow to Japan's third-largest bank.
It also added Sumitomo Bank's name to a list of prominent financial institutions that reportedly aided the manipulation scheme. Daiwa Securities and the brokerage unit of Citicorp, Scrimgeour Vickers International, were earlier penalized by the Finance Ministry for helping Mr. Kotani illegally inflate a stock's price in April and then take millions of dollars in profits. 
 
Tacit Understanding
The question is whether Mr. Isoda, like an old samurai following the code of honor, succeeded in halting any further damage to Sumitomo.
Mr. Isoda told reporters at a news conference that Sumitomo Bank's president, Sotoo Tatsumi, had also offered to resign but the chairman had talked him out of it for fear of leaving the bank headless.
By an unspoken understanding, when a Japanese corporation's top executive initiates the ritual of resigning to take responsibility for some misdeed of the organization, it often means the Government will not impose further penalties or sanctions.
Sumitomo could suffer serious damage if the Government were to discover and disclose that more executives sanctioned the reportedly illegal loans or had some other involvement with Mr. Kotani.
In addition to being one of the largest banks in the world and the center of the huge Sumitomo group of industrial companies, the bank owns 12.5 percent of Goldman, Sachs & Company, the Wall Street securities firm. It operates a branch system in California and recently acquired Banco del Gottardo of Switzerland.
Sumitomo Bank is known as one of the most aggressive and international of Japan's banks and a pillar of the Japanese business community. It is also the country's most profitable bank.
 
With Bank 55 Years
Mr. Isoda is known as a hard-driving executive who has put making profits as a top priority, which is not all that common here. He joined the bank 55 years ago and served as president for six years until being named chairman in 1983.
The reports on Friday that the Sumitomo branch manager, 45-year-old Akinori Yamashita, who had worked in Yokohama, had helped arrange the huge loans added a key piece to the puzzle of how Mr. Kotani financed his dealings.
Mr. Kotani succeeded in a hostile takeover several years ago of Kokusai Kogyo, an aerial surveying and property company. The Government has said that senior executives of the target company engaged in insider trading. Those involved were arrested earlier on tax evasion charges.
Mr. Kotani was then indicted on charges that he manipulated the price of shares in Fujita Tourist Enterprises, a leading hotel and restaurant group, in part to raise cash to pay for his takeover of Kokusai Kogyo. The arrest of the Sumitomo Bank branch manager might offer a partial explanation of how Mr. Kotani financed those dealings.
On Aug. 31, Daiwa and two smaller Japanese firms were ordered to suspend operations at some branches for two days in connection with the stock manipulation. Scrimgeour Vickers, which has just one branch in Tokyo, was ordered to close for a day.
Even after the prosecutor's announcement on Friday, details of the case against Mr. Yamashita were fuzzy. The basic charge was that he had arranged for a small number of customers of his branch to make two loans, one to a company controled by Mr. Kotani, and another to a second company. The total was about $170 million at current exchange rate. For providing this service, Mr. Yamashita is alleged to have received nearly $750,000.
It is against Japanese banking laws for a bank official to arrange for loans outside of his bank through third parties.
One report added another step to Mr. Yamashita's alleged crime: the article in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, a leading economic daily, said Mr. Yamashita had arranged for the bank's customers to borrow money from the bank, and then lend it to Mr. Kotani's group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); SWITZERLAND (58%); UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUMITOMO BANK LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; CREDIT; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; BRIBERY BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SCANDALS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); BONDS (72%); ARRESTS (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); BRIBERY (70%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; ISODA, ICHIRO; KOTANI, MATSUHIRO AKINORI YAMASHITA (73%); ICHIRO ISODA (71%); 



268 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Free-Market Lessons Of Chile's 'Chicago Boys'

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile

 BODY:
After facing critics and doubters for years, the economists and others who made Chile's free-market revolution are now being sought by many countries to share their experiences and advise on topics like privatization, debt management and fighting poverty.
''We're not preachers; we talk to practical people who are trying to learn from the Chilean experience, who want to know the details of why and how we did things,'' said Pablo Baraona, one of the original group known as the Chicago Boys who joined the Government of Gen. Augusto Pinochet soon after the 1973 coup that overthrew the Socialist Government of President Salvador Allende.
The popularity of these economists abroad reflects ''the change in the world; we are all looking for the same thing now,'' Mr. Baraona said.
 
Disciples of Free-Market Faith
Hernan Buchi, another of ''Los Chicago'' and a former finance minister who ran for president unsuccessfully in the December elections, observed, ''The main criticism that used to be made of what we did in Chile - that the social cost was too high - has now been proved to be mistaken, because a higher social cost is being paid by countries that followed other policies.'' 
After returning from a seminar in Argentina on how Chile managed to reduce its foreign debt through debt-equity swaps, Mr. Buchi was preparing to go to Bolivia, then to Paris to take part in a conference for East Europeans on overhauling state-owned companies.
The Chicago Boys label came from the fact that Mr. Baraona and several others who drafted and managed the program to turn Chile away from statism studied economics at the University of Chicago and became disciples of Milton Friedman's free-market faith.
Others in the group studied at Columbia University - Mr. Buchi, for example - or at Harvard University or in Chile, but all have been lumped together for the ideas they share.
 
Combating State Dominance
When this group from the country's best and brightest began to enter the military Government in the mid-1970's, it inherited not only the results of three years of the Allende Government, which took giant steps down the path to socialism, but also a long Chilean tradition of state dominance over the economy and inefficient, protected local industry.
Chile was not feeding itself. A large part of the land, once used mainly to provide a comfortable way of life for those who owned it, was the focus of confiscations and other efforts at changes. Only copper was making economic sense in Chile.
Moving with what Mr. Baraona called a spirit of combat, the economists and technocrats sold nationalized companies or returned them to earlier owners, slashed import duties, invited foreign investment, eliminated entitlement programs for the middle class, improved tax collections and pushed local business executives and foreign investors to increase exports by exploiting the country's advantages in areas like fruits, vegetables, fisheries and forestry.
 
Sharing With Other Countries
These advisers now have experiences to share with other countries trying to create market economies, said Cristian Larroulet Vignau, Mr. Buchi's chief aide in the Finance Ministry and now executive director of the Institute of Liberty and Development, a research center.
He said a stream of professionals from the institute, of which Mr. Buchi is president, and others who worked on Chile's economic transformation now travel to Latin America, the Caribbean and Europe, especially Eastern Europe.
One of the most sought-after advisers is Hernan Somerville, Chile's chief foreign debt negotiator from 1983 to 1988, who carried the responsibility for negotiating debt restructuring and reduction with both governments and commercial banks. The agreements included authorization for a debt-for-equity program and debt buyback plan that formed the basis of the so-called Brady plan for reducing third world debt.
''I sit with the finance minister or central bank president, and he tells me their situation,'' he said.
He added: ''Sometimes I have intervened with bank steering committees to sound them out. I guess I have a reputation among the 500 banks that have known me for five years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (91%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHILE

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NATIONALIZATION OF INDUSTRY; CREDIT NATIONALIZATION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COUPS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 



269 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Venezuela Improving Oil Quality

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOQUERON, Venezuela

 BODY:
Stacks of pipes near well-drilling rigs here point to a transformation in oil production in Venezuela, the nation with the largest proven oil reserves in the Americas.
By drilling to new depths below the table-flat plains of eastern Venezuela, oil workers are starting to tap a sea of highly prized low-sulfur light and medium crude oil.
''This is the largest oilfield discovery in Venezuela in the last 25 years, another Prudhoe Bay,'' said Norbert G. Sporn, a spokesman for Petroleos de Venezuela, the state oil company.
From the neutral vantage point of a London office, Kim Fuad, an editor for the Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, described the fields here as ''a tremendous windfall for Venezuela.'' 
 
Up to 15 Billion Barrels
''These finds are very big - 10 to 15 billion barrels,'' said Mr. Fuad, a Venezuela expert. ''That's more than half of United States proven reserves.''
Indirectly, the fields also represent a boon for the United States, which receives two-thirds of Venezuela's oil exports. United States oil production has been dropping in recent years, and during the 1990's imports are expected to increase by about 50 percent from their current level of 8.5 million barrels a day.
With the threat of war enveloping the Middle East, Government officials here have started touting Venezuela - four days by oil tanker from the United States - as a ''friendly, safe source.''
''Here in the region, we potentially have the oil to meet any crisis,'' Carlos Andres Perez, the nation's President, said in an interview in Caracas recently. ''The United States can trust, always depend on, Venezuela as a safe supplier.''
 
Working Around the Clock
To meet the expected increased demand, geologists and laborers are working around the clock on a crash program to increase production in 15 months to 500,000 barrels a day, from 300,000 barrels today.
During the next 10 years, the production program is expected to change the mix of oil drilled in Venezuela, the Western Hemisphere's largest oil exporter.
Venezuela has historically produced low-value high-sulfur heavy crude from the nation's western region. Today, about 70 percent of Venezuela's oil comes from this region, largely from around Lake Maracaibo.
But with new discoveries around here, 70 percent of Venezuela's proven reserves are now in the east, with light and medium crude oil predominating.
''The future of Venezuela's oil industry is going to be in the east,'' Mr. Sporn predicted, surveying a landscape where oil rigs broke a baking-hot monotony of cattle ranches and cornfields.
 
An Important Difference
By 1995, Venezuela's production is expected to be evenly split between heavy crude and the higher-value light and medium crude oils. For a country that last year relied on oil exports for 76 percent of its income, the difference is important: in recent months, higher-quality oil has sold for as much as $8 a barrel more than lower-quality oil.
A quirk of history is helping the Venezuelans to put the fields into production quickly. Thanks to a legacy of 70 years of oil production here, oil pipelines and tank farms are already in place.
The old wells started to run dry in the late 1960's, leading to two decades of economic stagnation in this state, Monagas, and in the neighboring state of Anzoategui. But in the late 1980's, new technology allowed the Venezuelan companies operating here, Lagaven and Corpoven, to pierce the old well threshold of 5,000 feet and to reach depths of 20,000 feet.
High-resolution seismic surveys, aerogravimetric surveys, steam injection and three-dimensional computer models were among the new technologies that allowed Venezuelans to map out new, deeper fields here in the late 1980's.
Although deep drilling is more expensive, the payoff has been greater. On the average, the deep wells here produce 7,000 barrels a day. By contrast, the average well in Venezuela produces 120 barrels a day.
Today, the main obstacle to rapidly increasing production is a worldwide shortage of drilling rigs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES



270 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
A Budget Solution Is Expected

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Beyond the political theater over the Federal budget lies one stark deadline for the credit markets: the United States Government will be in default on its debt obligations if a budget accord is not reached by Thursday.
To a certain extent, market participants have become anesthetized on Washington's ways; this is, after all, the fourth time in the last decade that the Government has marched to the brink of insolvency.
Analysts expressed confidence that the current crisis would be resolved, despite the deep political differences that divide the parties on the budget issue. The financial price of a stalemate that extends past Thursday morning, when interest payments on Treasury bills are due, seems too great for even politicians to ignore. 
 
Short Shutdown 'Acceptable'
''Shutting down the Government for a short period is acceptable,'' said Louis v.B. Crandall, chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates, an economic consulting firm. ''A default is not. They have to get something done by Thursday morning.''
''One way or another we will have a budget package, and a cut in the deficit,'' said Paul L. Kasriel, a vice president and monetary economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago.
To Mr. Kasriel and other analysts, approval of a package of the dimensions of the $40 billion in spending cuts and tax increases for the current fiscal year that was rejected late last week seemed more likely than the $85 billion to $100 billion in spending cuts that would occur if the Gramm-Rudman budget legislation were enforced.
 
Explosive 'Sequester' Rally
The failed compromise resulted in a rally in the financial markets last week, but analysts said that across-the-board cuts, commonly referred to in Washington as a ''sequester,'' would probably generate an explosive rally. ''Sequester would be better for the bond market, but it would be worse for the economy,'' Mr. Kasriel said. ''It's a bigger package, and it is all on the spending side.''
Congress moved toward a new proposal yesterday for about $40 billion in savings, but traders of government bonds will not return to the market until tomorrow, after the Columbus Day holiday.
Analysts agreed that the Federal Reserve Board, widely seen as ready to lower short-term interest rates to shore up a badly sagging economy, would delay making any move until after a budget package was approved. Moreover, the Fed's response, when it comes, is likely to be tailored to the nature of the fiscal program that emerges. ''If the budget reduction action takes the form of a very severe sequester, that would produce an even greater reaction from the Fed,'' Mr. Crandall said.
 
Reaction to Job Report
On a purely economic basis, the contents of September's employment report released last Friday suggest that the Fed needs to do something soon. Excluding census workers, nonfarm payroll employment fell by 59,000 last month, a number that rounded out a very bleak job-creation picture for the third quarter. In the last three months, payroll employment increased by only 70,000 jobs. During the same period, the number of people working part-time rose by 350,000, with 330,000 in September alone.
''The situation is horrible,'' said Joseph Carson, a Chemical Bank economist. After including the latest employment figures with other reports, he estimated that the economy did not grow at all during the third quarter, and might have even contracted slightly.
''I don't see how anyone could read the employment report as anything other than a recession report,'' said Alan Sinai, chief economist for the Boston Company. ''Under normal circumstances, it would call for a Fed easing.''
The Fed would probably be cautious on doing very much, Mr. Sinai and others said, because the inflation outlook remained bleak. Fresh evidence of rapidly rising prices is almost certain to appear on Friday, when producer price figures for September are expected to be released.
 
Larger Price Rises Seen
Given the further sharp increase in oil prices, analysts said they were not optimistic that last month's rise in the Producer Price Index will be improved from the very sharp rise of 1.3 percentage points recorded in August. Indeed, some economists are forecasting that the September number will be even larger.
In addition to the producer price numbers, on Friday traders and analysts will probably take a close look at a September retail sales report that will probably show surprising strength. Experts said retail sales might have jumped by almost 2 percent last month, a figure that would be the largest monthly increase since January. Economists said much of the likely rise was related to higher gasoline prices. But auto sales were surprisingly strong as well.
Those two items probably mask continued consumer caution, however. Analysts at Salomon Brothers estimate that, excluding gasoline and car sales, retail sales rose by three-tenths of a percent in September.
Nevertheless, the inflation and sales numbers are not likely to sit well with market participants. ''Friday's numbers will not be very helpful for the market,'' said Steven Slifer, an economist at Shearson Lehman Government Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DEFAULTING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); TAX LAW (65%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N PAUL L KASRIEL (63%); 



271 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: William Mortensen, 87; Ran Hartford Arts Center

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
William H. Mortensen, a college dropout who became a millionaire philanthropist, a State Senator, the Mayor of Hartford, a candidate for governor and the director of Connecticut's most important center for the performing arts, died on Saturday at his summer home in Old Saybrook. He was 87 years old and lived in Stuart, Fla.
The son of emigres from Denmark, Mr. Mortensen, a popular and gregarious Republican, served only one term as State Senator, from 1941 to 1943, and one term as Mayor of Hartford, from 1943 to 1945. He was forced by heart trouble to withdraw from the 1950 gubernatorial race. 
But he led a bipartisan movement that succeeded in 1947 in establishing a strong city manager form of government in Hartford, investing power in a professional city manager and an elected City Council.
The system, which did away with patronage-ridden commissions that ran city agencies and installed single department heads named by the city manager, is in place today.
 
Development Commission Head
For nearly four decades, Mr. Mortensen helped shape Connecticut's cultural life as managing director of Horace Bushnell Memorial Hall in Hartford, a center for concerts, ballet, theater and other artistic events.
As chairman of the State Development Commission in the 1950's, he helped establish regional planning that promoted economic development, mapped highway routes and improved harbors. He also served on the State Commission for Higher Education.
William Henry Mortensen was born in Hartford on July 15, 1903, and attended public schools in Hartford and Antioch College in Philadelphia. He dropped out and went home to take an insurance job in 1923. A few years later, his life took an unusual turn.
The granddaughter of Horace Bushnell, a Hartford Congregational minister and a friend of Mark Twain, decided to build an auditorium as a memorial to him and asked Mr. Mortensen, a former Hartford High School student of her husband, to go around the country researching such halls.
 
Library Named for Him
He was put in charge of construction, and when the hall was completed in 1929, he was named managing director, a post he held until his retirement in 1968. He received two honorary doctorates: in fine arts from the University of Hartford in 1956 and in law from Trinity College in 1984.
Mr. Mortensen gave $250,000 to the University of Hartford in 1969 for its central reference library, which was named for him.
Mr. Mortensen's first wife, the former Alice Carroll, died in 1983.
He is survived by his second wife, the former Trice Carter; a stepson, Robert Carter of West Hartford; two step-grandchildren, and one step-great-grandchild. The funeral will be at 11 A.M. tomorrow at the First Church of Christ Congregational in West Hartford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM H SILK ARCHITECT INC (92%); WILLIAM H TAYLOR & CO INC (92%); WILLIAM H HORN & BROTHER INC (92%); HARTFORD HIGH SCHOOL (63%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (63%); STATE DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION (58%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); DANCE (77%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); BALLET (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); RELIGION (68%); STEPPARENTS (60%); 

PERSON: MORTENSEN, WILLIAM H; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D WILLIAM S MORTENSEN (94%); 



272 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
IMPASSE ON BUDGET IS ENDED; STOPGAP SPENDING MEASURE AVERTS FEDERAL SHUTDOWN

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Tuesday, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Ending the latest budget showdown, President Bush and Congressional leaders agreed Monday night on stopgap spending legislation that averted a suspension of most Government services this morning.
The agreement came shortly before the Senate adopted the broad outline of a budget identical to the one the House approved a few hours before daybreak Monday.
Mr. Bush and the Democratic leaders of Congress were jockeying to put themselves in the best possible position to control the most important tax-and-spending legislation in years. The effect of last night's votes was to put off until next week the tough decisions on deficit reduction, which taxes to raise and which benefits to lower.
 
Earlier Bill Vetoed
On Saturday, seeking to force Congress to act quickly on the budget framework, President Bush vetoed a temporary spending bill that was similar to the one approved this morning. He said he would sign a stopgap measure if Congress approved a budget measure. The result of Saturday's veto was that some Government facilities like parks and monuments were closed over the three-day Columbus Day weekend. 
Had the Government shutdown continued today, a regular business day, the disruption would have been felt across the country.
The stopgap measure continues Government spending authority through Oct. 19. The Senate approved it by unanimous consent, the House by a vote of 362 to 3. The President said he would sign it. The Senate vote on the budget framework was 66 to 33, with 42 Democrats and 24 Republicans voting for it and 13 Democrats and 20 Republicans voting against it.
 
A Feeling of Frustration
Referring to the fact that most Republicans in the House had fought the budget plan, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican leader, declared that he understood their ''frustration'' but said he wanted to be able to say, ''We're players in this game.''
The budget measure was almost precisely like the one the House had dramatically rejected early Friday, with one main exception. The new one would give the Democratic-controlled House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee broad leeway to recommend which taxes to raise and which benefit programs to cut.
The main effect of giving the Government continued spending authority was a postponement for another 10 days the fundamental decisions on taxes and spending.
 
Relief in the Capital
The latest developments reopened the questions of capital gains taxation and income tax rates that deadlocked budget negotiators for months. Monday, the prospects were that capital gains taxes would be lowered and the tax rate of the wealthiest taxpayers increased.
Last night's partial accord brought some relief to the tension that had swept the capital in recent days over the budget crisis.
''I've been in the Senate 16 years, and I've never seen a time more ominous for the country than now,'' said Senator Dale Bumpers, an Arkansas Democrat, at the outset of the Senate debate.
Earlier, in trying to move the Senate toward a vote on the stopgap measure, Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Democratic leader, declared: ''We're not just dealing with numbers. We're not just dealing with programs. We're dealing with real human beings, and their families, and their hopes and fears and concerns.''
 
Bush's Advisers Divided
While the Senate talked about the budget and the temporary spending legislation, the President was huddled in the Oval Office with Vice President Dan Quayle and such top aides as John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, and Richard G. Darman, the budget director.
In a long day of meetings and internal debates, White House advisers were divided over whether Mr. Bush should veto the stopgap measure, officials said.
Some argued that a veto would hold Congress's feet to the fire and lay the ground for vetoes later of Democratic spending and tax measures. But others argued that Democrats and Republican leaders like Senator Dole would be so antagonized by a veto that a satisfactory budget deal would be much more difficult to strike.
According to some accounts and the officials' public comments in the past two days, Mr. Darman, who only a few days ago was one of the loudest critics of Congress, was leading the group arguing in favor of Mr. Bush's signing the stopgap measure, while Mr. Quayle was more sympathetic to those who were arguing for vetoing it. Fight Now Or Later? The ''basic question,'' Senator Warren B. Rudman of New Hampshire said after a lunch meeting of Senate Republicans, was whether the issues should be joined now or later. Mr. Rudman said that he favored later but that many of his colleagues wanted the fight now.
Typically, the Senate debate consisted mostly of monologues by individual senators and long periods of silence, while senators clustered in small groups on and off the floor trying to reach a political accommodation.
That was in sharp contrast to the spirited House debate Sunday night and early Monday, when tempers were frayed and sparks flew.
At one point Sunday night, for example, Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the Republican whip who had led the fight against the budget compromise President Bush and Congressional leaders reached Sept. 30, blamed Democrats for the Government shutdown.
''When the Democratic majority fails to override a veto,'' he asserted, ''it has an obligation to respond to that failure by cooperating with the President.''
 
Weariness and Anger
The Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley, his weariness showing in his slumped shoulders but his anger flashing in his eyes, fired back: ''Of all the people in this House, of all the people in the country with little claim to cooperating with the President, it is the gentleman from Georgia.''
The House cheered and jeered at that thrust and parry and many others. It then approved a budget outline about 2 o'clock Monday morning by a vote of 250 to 164, all but 28 Democrats voting for it and all but 32 Republicans voting ''no.''
Then, just before 4 A.M., the House passed the stopgap measure, 305 to 105, to allow the Government's spending authority to continue through Oct. 19.
The budget measure is supposed to cut the deficit, now nearly $300 billion, by $40 billion this year and by a total of $500 billion over five years. It contained only totals for revenues and broad categories of spending like agriculture, education and the military and did not specify specifically how the money would be raised or allotted. This measure does not need to be signed by the President. Smaller Medicare Cuts? Senators and representatives said the newfound flexibility for the committees controlled by Democrats would mean that Medicare benefits would be shaved much less than in the earlier compromise arrangement, and that the various tax breaks for business agreed to by the President and Congressional leaders would not see the light of day.
Other parts of the compromise that would have little effect on the deficit but were politically dicey would also probably be abandoned, the lawmakers said. Such measures include a 2-cent-a-gallon tax on home heating oil and the denial of unemployment benefits the first two weeks someone was out of work.
More important, the tax committees seem likely now to approve a lower tax rate on capital gains and a higher income tax rate for the wealthiest Americans.
 
Two Chairman Give Indications
Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Finance Committee, predicted that those provisions would be written into an omnibus tax-and-spending bill that Congress will probably vote on no later than the end of next week.
The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Dan Rostenkowski, Democrat of Illionis, has given indications he would go in the same direction. However, the chairman provided no clue as to what they thought the new tax rates should be.
The action in the Senate and House underscored important differences between the two chambers.
In the House, Democrats hold a 3-to-2 majority, large enough to steamroller Republicans. But in the Senate, where the Democratic majority is only 55 to 45 and where it takes 60 votes to break a filibuster, Democrats cannot move without Republican cooperation.
 
G.O.P. Strategy Talks
During the day, House Republicans sought to set aside internal divisions to fight the Democratic budget proposal. Several lawmakers said that a closed-door meeting of House Republicans on Sunday was particularly stormy, with members clashing over strategy for countering the Democrats.
Many Republicans conceded that about the only leverage they have would be in mustering the votes to sustain a Presidential veto of the measure.
''We're in a Mexican stand-off where they can pass whatever they want,'' said Representative Chuck Douglas, Republican of Rhode Island. ''But they can't override a veto. And that makes it a very dynamic, fluid situation.''
Representative Ralph Regula, an Ohio Republican, said ''the really fundamental question is whether to support revenue increases or to stonewall - you've got a fundamental issue the House Republicans have to face, and it's hard to determine exactly what the sentiment is.''
A Republican moderate, Representative Sherwood L. Boehlert of New York, said there is ''a clear division'' among House Republicans. ''Some people cling to the unrealistic dream that you can accomplish what you really want to accomplish without spending any money.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS; SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR) BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); VETO (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); INCOME TAX (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



273 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1853 words

HEADLINE: Teen-Agers Seek a Path Back From the Edge

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

 BODY:
The wind rushed through the trees of a Harlem park the other day, knocking a few acorns to the ground and startling Nierobie Hardy to his feet. He jerked his head around, as if searching the shadows for a sniper.
''I thought somebody was about to start something,'' the teen-ager said. ''People are crazy out here.'' Nierobie looked down the street where a group of young men mingled on a corner. Perhaps they were selling drugs; perhaps they were just hanging out in a neighborhood where there are few other places for people to gather.
''All my friends,'' he said, ''want to blow up'' - make a lot of money fast. ''They want the Jeep, the fresh girls, the fat chains.'' 
''Do you want the same things?'' he was asked.
''Yeah,'' he said. ''But I want to live, too.''
Despite a difficult present and a checkered past of run-ins with the law and running from school, Nierobie (pronounced nye-RO-bee) is struggling - some days harder than others - to stay out of trouble. At the age of 17, he is emblematic of a generation of young people on the edge. Amid the drugs and unemployment of New York's bleakest neighborhoods - where hope and opportunity have a hard time measuring up to the fast flash of the streets - they are in danger of being lost.
''Without enough positive alternatives, we're going to lose him,'' said Vincent D. Hilliard, Nierobie's counselor at a youth organization in the South Bronx. ''I'm sure he's a good kid. But the streets aren't good. They can change anybody. It's a 50-50 chance that he may be sucked into his environment.''
When Mayor David N. Dinkins unveiled his $1.8 billion proposal last week to remold the city's criminal-justice system, he did not just call for thousands more police officers on the streets. The plan - though its political future is uncertain - would provide more than $479 million for educational and youth programs, to attack the ''root causes'' of crime. Overworked and underpaid counselors like Mr. Hilliard are already trying to do just that life-saving work, though most days they can do little more than the boy with his thumb in the dike.
''We're not tending to our crops,'' he said, referring to the city's young people. ''We're letting weeds grow in. This crop isn't ruined. We need to roll up our sleeves and harvest it.''
Every week, Mr. Hilliard counsels dozens of troubled teen-agers from across the city. There is Nierobie, and there is Faustino Garcia, a gentle 18-year-old who dresses like a tough to survive in his South Bronx neighborhood. Ruben M., who is 16, says that whenever he needs a gun he knows exactly where to get it. Fifteen-year-old Aileen F. is a onetime runaway who hopes to become the first person in her family to graduate from high school.
Bear hugs, hip-hop street talk and plenty of ''I love you's'' are the stock in trade of the 6-foot-3-inch, 250-pound Mr. Hilliard.
''Give me my goodbye hug,'' he says at the end of almost every session.
Even the hardened ones seem to relish the contact. ''When was the last time you were hugged?'' Mr. Hilliard asked an 18-year-old.
''I can't remember,'' the teen-ager said as he disappeared in Mr. Hilliard's arms.
Mr. Hilliard has been a counselor for two years at the Sports Foundation, a nonprofit organization housed on the second floor of a rundown building at 518 Willis Avenue in the South Bronx.
The organization, with an annual budget of $800,000 to $900,000 from state, city and private sources, offers job placement, tutoring, sports activities and drug counseling.
The foundation is located in the middle of a sea of so-called ''prescription mills,'' doctor's offices and pharmacies that will dispense pills with little regard for documentation or medical need. Addicts clutching bottles of cheap wine, pushers and the occasional customer in a business suit gather on the corner across the street.
Last week, Nierobie sat in the window of Mr. Hilliard's office, looking out onto the thriving pill market below, where the prescription drugs were being resold on the street.
''Yo, Vince,'' he said, ''I just saw them make a sale. Why the cops don't be around here? That's where they need to be.'' Mr. Hilliard shrugged.
 
Top of the ClassIn Street Smarts
Mr. Hilliard, who is 38, is the senior prevention counselor at the foundation, working both with children and with adults up to age 24. Many of his clients have been classified by the court system as ''persons in need of supervision'' - PINS - because of their behavior at home or at school or previous run-ins with the police. Nierobie is a PINS. ''There's no one smarter about the streets than Nierobie,'' Mr. Hilliard said. ''If they passed out grades for street knowledge, my man would be a valedictorian.
''You talk to him some days and he can sound like an angel. But you look beyond his eyes and you can tell he's seen people shot, that he's seen people struggling for crumbs, that he's seen a lot of hurt.''
Nierobie dropped out of high school more than a year ago and was kicked out of the Job Corps for fighting. Today, he spends much of his time ''chillin' with the fellas'' in front of a drug store in the shadow of the Ralph J. Rangel Houses along the banks of the Harlem River. Several times a day, every day, boats from Circle Line tours glide past the projects. Nierobie has spent most of his life here, but he has never been on one of the boats.
''That's one thing I really want to do,'' he said as a crowded boat cut through the dark water.
Nierobie lives in a two-bedroom apartment with his mother, grandmother and two younger sisters. His father is dead. His mother, Pearl Anthony, who is 36, said she sent Nierobie to the Sports Foundation because ''he didn't want to go to school.
''He was like slipping into an 'I don't care' attitude,'' she said. ''He was all the way on the edge.''
When he was 16, Nierobie says, he worked for two weeks ''slinging'' -selling crack. He hit the street by 11 A.M. and sold for the rest of the day.
''It was scary,'' he said. ''Sometimes you never know when you're going to get busted.'' He managed to avoid arrest for those two weeks.
Asked if any of his friends had been shot, Nierobie looked surprised at such a silly question.
''Kid I used to play ball with got killed right in front of C-Town,'' he said, pointing toward the local grocery store. ''Another kid, he was 16, got shot, burnt and had his head cut off. He was wild.''
Nierobie spent much of last Monday night at Harlem Hospital visiting a friend who was shot.
''One thing I can't stand is to turn on the news and see that a little baby got killed,'' Nierobie said. ''That messes with me.''
It's Camouflage In the Neighborhood Faustino Garcia walked into Mr. Hilliard's office the other day, wearing a button with the credo of Wall Street and the mean streets emblazoned on its face: ''The color of freedom is green.''
''That's the way I feel,'' Faustino said. ''You can't be free unless you got money. Without some cash in your pocket, you ain't nobody.''
Faustino prefers to be called Tito, his self-christened street name. It sounds tougher than Faustino and in his South Bronx neighborhood ''if you're soft you're lost,'' as a popular rap song by Boogie Down Productions goes.
Tito, a student at Bronx Regional High School, is part of the I Have A Dream program, which offers college scholarships to students if they finish high school. He grew up a few blocks from the Sports Foundation and is as street-smart as they come.
''I fell into stuff a couple of times but I got out of it,'' he said. ''I said to myself, 'This ain't my style.' My father didn't raise me like that.''
Tito has two gold tooth caps, worn for show, that he slips off for job interviews or when he talks with Mr. Hilliard. Sometimes he forgets.
''Smile for me, little brother,'' Mr. Hilliard asked him. Tito smiled.
''No gold. All right,'' Mr. Hilliard said.
Later, Tito and Mr. Hilliard were walking through the throng of addicts on the corner. Tito asked if he could put his caps back on. ''Yeah,'' Mr. Hilliard said. ''You're back in the 'hood.
''Faustino looks devious - gold teeth, wearing his hat crooked - but that's the neighborhood camouflage so he looks tough so he doesn't get beaten up,'' Mr. Hilliard explained. ''He wouldn't bust a grape.''
Last week, Mr. Hilliard's cramped office was filled with teen-agers -Nierobie, Ruben, Aileen and 16-year-old Michele C., her big earrings and bracelets jiggling when she gestured, sounding like a wind chime.
Nierobie and Ruben said they want to become businessmen. Nierobie said he wanted to be his own boss and open a grocery store. But Mr. Hilliard told them that to do well in business they would have to attend school.
''My father had his own business and he dropped out at the sixth grade,'' Nierobie said. ''It's much different than when your father was a kid,'' Mr. Hilliard said. ''The days of 'Lift that bale' and 'Tote that barge' are over. Computers rule the world now.''
The conversation turned to the violence sweeping through the streets. Aileen said the city ignores crime and violence as long as it occurs in poor black and Hispanic neighborhoods.
All four teen-agers said they knew someone who had been shot. ''That's the way it goes,'' Nierobie said.
''That's the problem,'' Aileen snapped. ''You think that way and you'll never get out of the ghetto. That's what's wrong with those dope fiends.''
Aileen, a tall, poised young woman who lives in the South Bronx, said she used to ''be wild, running the street.'' Now, she said, she has settled down and hopes to attend college.
''In my neighborhood, people think that every black and Hispanic who wants to go to college wants to be white,'' she said. ''College is not cool for a lot of kids. I think I'll be the first person in my family to graduate from high school. Right then and there that will be an accomplishment.''
As they talked, a police patrol car cruised slowly down the street. A soft rain was falling on the crowd of addicts. ''Get off the corner,'' a police officer said over a loudspeaker from his car. He sounded like the Wizard of Oz as his voice floated into the office. ''It's raining, for Christ's sake.''
As soon as the patrol car had gone, the addicts returned. Nierobie laughed and said, ''That's the way it goes.''
Wednesday afternoon, Nierobie bounded up the stairs at the Sports Foundation, smiling and excited. He was scheduled to register for a general equivalency degree course at the East Side Settlement House. He was two hours late. Mr. Hilliard rolled his eyes but said nothing. Nierobie smiled again.
Mr. Hilliard walked Nierobie over to the school and introduced him to an instructor, John Bond.
''You must have something going for you since there are so many people interested in you,'' Mr. Bond said to Nierobie. ''They may see something in you that you don't see yet.''
Mr. Bond said the only thing he would ask of Nierobie was to work hard.
''I just want my G.E.D.,'' Nierobie said. ''No games. I'm going to pass them games up.''
On Friday, Nierobie arrived on time for his first day of school.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nierobie Hardy, 17 years old, is one of a generation of young people who are struggling to resist the fast flash of the streets of New York's bleakest neighborhoods. He listened to music in his Harlem apartment. (pg. A1); ''I'm sure he's a good kid,'' said Vincent D. Hilliard of one of the youths he counsels at a youth organization in the South Bronx. ''But the streets aren't good. They can change anybody. It's a 50-50 chance that he may be sucked into his environment.''; ''You can't be free unless you got money,'' said Faustino Garcia, an 18-year-old who dresses tough to survive in his South Bronx neighborhood. ''Without some cash in your pocket, you ain't nobody.'' (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TEENAGERS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ; CHILDREN AND YOUTH ADOLESCENTS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); TRENDS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); 

PERSON: HILLIARD, VINCENT D; HARDY, NIEROBIE; TERRY, DON MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



274 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: New York City's Budget Problems Threaten to Raise Borrowing Cost

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
New York City's economic weakness and budget problems are starting to spill over into the financial markets, which may make it increasingly costly for the city government to issue bonds to raise needed funds.
Responding to the continuing reports about the city's economic troubles, professional investors sold more than $30 million of city bonds last Friday, bond traders said. With few investors eager to buy them, the price of the bonds fell sharply, causing interest rates to rise 15-hundredths of a percentage point.
For New York City, which borrows more money in the bond markets than any other entity except the United States Treasury, a rise of a fraction of a percentage point in interest rates adds many millions of dollars to the cost of raising money for long-term projects such as building schools and repairing bridges. 
More important than the recent increase in rates is the concern that it may be the start of a trend, unless the Dinkins administration can put together a clear-cut plan for curbing municipal costs and raising revenues. Without a credible budget package, the city may have to pay even higher rates on its bonds to attract skittish investors.
''The ball in squarely in the city's court,'' said Harrison J. Goldin, former city comptroller and now a corporate consultant. ''The market knows it is confronting considerable supply of new city bonds and it is waiting for the city to provide some specific and meaningful indication of the steps it is going to take to close the budget deficits.''
New York City sells more than $800 million of bonds every three months. Over the last month, the interest rates on the city's bonds have increased by roughly a quarter of a percentage point more than the rates on bonds issued by other cities. The quarter-point move means that the interest payments on the amount of bonds the city sells in the course of a year would increase by $80 million over 30 years. Bonds are issued for terms from one to 30 years.
The municipal bond markets were closed yesterday for Columbus Day. Officials at bond rating agencies were not available to comment on city bonds.
The sharp reaction in the markets last week seemed to recall the financial turbulence of the city's fiscal crises, like the one in the mid-1970's. But investors insist that the circumstances today are quite different. At present, investors are mainly concerned that the value of their bonds will fall as the city's credit rating declines during the region's economic downturn. They are not yet worried that the city will fail to pay its debts, which happened in 1975.
''The question today is where are the city's elected officials going to cut the budget,'' said William H. Hayden Sr., a managing director at Bear, Stearns & Company, the securities firm. ''The problem is not going to get so serious that there are questions about whether or not there is money available to pay investors.''
Still, the effect of higher interest rates is felt at a time when the city's $28 billion budget seems to be in precarious shape. City officials have already begun plans to reduce spending on long-term projects, and perhaps reduce borrowing in future years.
Some money managers note that more than financial considerations lie behind investors' reluctance to hold New York City bonds.
''It is wealthy people who own New York City bonds, and their fears about the social changes in the city, with a new mayor and more political power to minorities are being reflected in the market,'' said Dale Krieger, an investor in municipal bonds at the Carnegie Hill Company, an investment advisory firm in Princeton, N.J.
Mr. Krieger, who has continued to invest in New York City bonds this year said, ''Those political changes are good for the city, but they make it a tougher environment to borrow.''
 
Effect of Race
But Mr. Hayden of Bear, Stearns, who has served as a financial adviser to many local governments, replied that the racial composition of New York City's leaders was not an important factor for investors.
''Other cities and states have minority leaders,'' he said, ''and if people are concerned about that, and I don't think they are, those concerns will soon dissipate as investors see that the hard facts are being faced and the hard decisions are being made.''
The city's new leaders ''are as capable of making those decisions as any in the country,'' Mr. Hayden added.
The head municipal bond trader at one New York City bank said, ''So far, the city has not even come close to the problems that it faces, whether you are talking about the infrastructure, crime, or the budget deficit.'' He insisted that he not be identified so that his comments would not jeopardize the bank's future business with the city.
 
Steep Drop in Price
On Friday, prices of some city bonds due in 20 years fell more than one and a half points, or $15 for a $1,000 bond, to yield about 8.40 percent, up from 8.25 percent the previous day.
For years, New York City has benefited from the fact that interest on its bonds are exempt from Federal, state and city income taxes.
In 1988, when its credit rating was raised to the single A category, the demand from individuals was strong enough that the city could sell long-term bonds at interest rates lower than similarly rated municipalities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST (MONEY) BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; GOLDIN, HARRISON J WILLIAM H HAYDEN SR (59%); 



275 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
At least 19 Palestinians were killed and more than 100 wounded during an hourlong battle outside Al Aksa Mosque between Israeli policemen and thousands of Arabs hurling rocks and bottles at Jews praying at the Western Wall below. Page A1

 
A site of ageless piety and modern strife A12

Baker urges Israeli restraint A12

 
Daily life in Baghdad seems normal. Along the boulevards of the city center, there is a mix of horn-honking traffic jams, the bustle of shopping and the blare of Arab love songs and Western rock music from garishly lit nightclubs. A13

 
500 Saudi militiamen graduate A13

 
Brazil tried to build an atom bomb, the new Government's top science official says. The official, Jose Goldemberg, secretary of science and technology, said the project was started in 1975 under the presidency of Ernesto Geisel, an Army general. A1 
 
 
Political violence has hit Guatemala as it prepares for presidential, legislative and municipal elections in November. The coming election is to lead to a democratic watershed: power is to be transferred from one elected civilian to another. A1

 
Caste plays a surprising role in Pakistan election A6

Democrats divided on China trade policy A5

 
Tokyo Journal: Most Japanese seem less than obsessed by the debate over whether Emperor Akihito becomes a deity next month when he is formally elevated to the Chrysanthemum Throne. But some specialists are locked in a bitter clash. A4

 
The once-mighty Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party, meeting to discuss strategies for the country's survival, came face to face with its own looming irrelevance. A3

 
A professional Romanian diplomat, Mircea Raceanu, freed nine months ago from a death row cell in Bucharest, is living in Washington as a kind of political exile. He says his life has been threatened at home. A10

 
Poland arrests two police generals in '84 killing of priest A8

 
Negotiations in South Africa between the Government and the African National Congress have been slowed by a disagreement over whether right-wing whites inside South Africa's security apparatus orchestrated the recent violence among blacks. A3

 
NATIONAL A16-23
 
Stopgap spending legislation was approved by the Senate that would avert a suspension of most Government services today. The House moved toward passage of the measure, and the White House said President Bush would sign it. A1

 
For Congress, the real struggle lies ahead A20

 
President Bush had a cheesy day. Cost-cutting measures resulted in a meager swearing-in ceremony for David Souter as an Associate Supreme Court Justice, as well as traffic headaches for the President and his humble motorcade. A1

 
Sworn in as 105th Justice, Souter says shock recedes A22

 
A majority of Americans blame President Bush and Congress equally for the difficulties in dealing with the budget, and they overwhelmingly say the current crisis is due to ''political bickering'' in Washington, according to a CBS News Poll. A21

 
The Clean Air Act may not be revised this year. A Congressional committee rewriting the bill is deadlocked over a plan to limit state enforcement of auto emission standards, raising the possibility that Congress will not finish the bill this year. A18

 
Were the thermometers wrong? All sorts of explanations have been offered for record high temperatures across the country. Now the National Weather Service is examining whether its new thermometers are inaccurate. A18

 
John R. Silber's bid for governor of Massachusetts has been highly unorthodox. In an interview, he said the trouble with the U.S. is too much prosperity and materialism. A16

 
Steep taxes on wine, beer and liquor may be imposed in California to support alcohol-abuse and mental-health programs. Voters will decide the issue next month. A23

 
Federal agents monitored lectures, religious services and street demonstrations attended by people suspected of having ties to international terrorist groups, a Congressional study has found. A16

 
Minnesota Journal: Land of 10,000 lakes is mired in weeds A16

 
REGIONAL B1-5
 
New York City's economic weakness and budgetary problems are starting to spill over into the financial markets, which may make it increasingly costly for the city government to issue bonds to raise funds for municipal operations. A1

 
An almost forgotten state agency is re-emerging as a focus of power in New York City's future. The State Financial Control Board could wrest control of city spending from Mayor Dinkins and the City Council. B1

 
The slump in the real-estate market in the New York metropolitan region has disrupted lives and disconcerted many New Yorkers for whom real estate has long been a barometer of personal well-being. B1

 
A generation of young New Yorkers is in danger of being lost. Amid the drugs and unemployment of the city's bleakest neighborhoods, hope and opportunity have a hard time measuring up to the flash of the streets. A1

 
The condition of New York's youth remains dismal, three years and more than $1.4 billion after Gov. Mario M. Cuomo declared the Decade of the Child. B1

 
New Jersey's Republican candidate for the United States Senate, Christine Todd Whitman, is confident that she can unseat the state's most popular politician, Bill Bradley. B1

 
Columbus's nationality perplexes paradegoers B3

Noise and excitement for the fans as silent struggle begins B3

Chess masters play to a draw B3

Columbus Day parade tackles ethnicity issue B3

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
SCIENCE TIMES
 
Why the Himalayas surge and what limits them C1

The treasure trove of the Andes, the potato, goes worldwide C1

What price fusion? An ambitious next step is proposed C1

Nobel Prizes go to American transplant pioneers C3

Science Q&A C7

Personal Computers C10

Peripherals C9

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
Derek Walcott on ''Omeros'' C13

Theater: Martha Clarke's latest C13

Louisville's Commedia festival C14

Music: ''La Fanciulla del West'' C16

Dance: Baryshnikov in Brooklyn C13

Word and Image: Patrick McGrath novel C17

CNN's special team C18

''Bangkok Hilton'' C18

 
FASHION PAGE B6

 
In Milan, lots of color and skin
Patterns
By Design
 
SPORTS
 
Baseball: Homers give Reds edge B9

Reds have Smith's number B9

Red Sox take their woes on the road B11

Column: Vecsey on Pirates B9

Football: Ga. Tech takes over No. 1 in The Times's ranking B10

Big East invites Miami to join B10

Jets weak in the late stages B13

Hockey: Rangers win home opener B9

 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Harold L. Ginsberg, biblical expert and author
Melvin M. Payne, geographic society leader
Betty Walberg, musical arranger for choreographers
Andre Grabar, expert on Byzantine art
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A24

 
Make art, not trouble
Brazil needs a boost
Still a hot war over bases
Topics: No hoops?
 
LETTERS A24

 
A. M. Rosenthal: The Arab nightmare A25

Russell Baker: What a direness there was A25

Leonard Zeskind: For Duke, just a start? A25

Josef Joffe: In the gulf, allies are doing their part A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ROMANIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATION (86%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); POLITICS (73%); CITIES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); POP & ROCK (70%); MUSIC (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); BUDGETS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); APPROVALS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ARMIES (55%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); DAVID SOUTER (50%); 



276 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: THE MIDDLE EAST;
In Baghdad, Few Signs of War Ahead

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 7

 BODY:
The moon was rising over the oldest part of Baghdad when Saad Aziz arrived at the Maqha teahouse for a game of tawle, an Iraqi board game with links to backgammon. The game is a weekly event for Mr. Aziz and his friends, played after the group of men, Arab Christians, attend evening Mass at a church nearby.
Approached at his table on the tiled teahouse terrace, Mr. Aziz, a 33-year-old spice merchant, gestured quickly for space to be made on the straw-mat on the bench beside him. ''Welcome, welcome,'' he said, speaking English and calling for an extra cup of the Maqha's sugary tea. 
Then, to the tap-tap rhythm of dominos hitting the wooden boards at neighboring tables, he set out to discuss the situation in Kuwait, making a plea for the United States to withhold military action until a negotiated settlement can be worked out with President Saddam Hussein.
''I don't think there's going to be a war,'' he said, switching back and forth between English and his native Arabic, translated by a visitor's Iraqi guide.
As his companions nodded, Mr. Aziz added: ''I think that peaceful negotiations will be held, and the reason I think so is that a war would be disastrous, not only for Iraq and the United States, but for the whole world. Remember, both sides in the war would possess very destructive weapons.''
 
Few Signs of War
As the Iraqi merchant spoke of the specter of Baghdad's being bombed, the scene around him suggested how little life has changed for many people here since Mr. Hussein's troops stormed into Kuwait.
Although tens of thousands of soldiers have been rushed as reinforcements to Kuwait, there is little in the Iraqi capital to suggest that Mr. Hussein's Government is preparing for war. There is no curfew, and when soldiers appear at downtown intersections, it is usually only for a few hours, and then they disappear.
Apart from the heavy defenses around Mr. Hussein's palace, there is no obvious sign of intensified military activity, no tanks rolling down the wide boulevards and no trucks filled with troops.
So far as a visitor can tell, daily life here remains normal. Along the broad boulevards of the city center, there is a mix of horn-honking traffic jams, the bustle of shopping and the blare of Arab love songs and Western rock music from garishly lit nightclubs.
Largely unseen are the workings of what is reputedly the Arab world's most ruthless police state, a pervasive network of agents and informers whose reports can lead to sudden disappearances, to long prison terms, even to death.
Mr. Aziz bantered with apparent ease, saying little that seemed likely to arouse the interest of Mr. Hussein's secret police. Only once did the merchant pause, when he was asked if he thought Mr. Hussein would be ousted if war broke out and Iraq lost. Before Mr. Aziz replied, the visitor's guide, a former soldier working part-time at the Information Ministry, interrupted with a flow of Arabic that sounded cautionary.
''If we lose the war, at that point Saddam Hussein is going to find another job,'' the merchant said, choosing his words in Arabic with evident caution. ''But if they lose the war, are not President Bush and Mrs. Thatcher going to lose their jobs, too?''
After moving a white checker, he said: ''We don't wish to fight America anyway. But if we do, Iraqis will be fighting at home, and Americans will not. When our soldiers die, they will be heroes. If Americans go home in coffins, who will remember them?''
Talk of negotiations has been common here for the last week, as though it were obvious that the nations arrayed against Iraq will eventually bargain with Mr. Hussein. But so far, officials who have publicly discussed the matter have stopped short of conceding the only point that seems likely to interest Baghdad's adversaries, an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait.
Mr. Aziz, too, appeared hesitant on the point, saying that although Mr. Hussein has made a link between Kuwait's annexation and Israel's occupation of lands claimed by Arabs, that did not mean that Iraq would consider giving up Kuwait.
''But if you want my personal opinion, that will not be easy, because Kuwait is part of Iraq,'' he said. ''It's a territory torn from its mother country by the British, and only restored to us two months ago. Whereas the West Bank is Arab land; even America says so.''
Voice rising, he continued: ''For 40 years, America has offered the Palestinians nothing, nothing but sympathy for what they lost. Now, two months after Iraq occupied Kuwait, you have sent an army against us. Where is the justice in that?''
 
A Message for Bush
Mr. Aziz, looking at his watch, said that it was time for him to be going home to his wife and three children, but that he had a message before he left for President Bush, about the futility of hoping that the economic embargo declared by the United Nations would bring Iraq to its knees.
''You tell this to Mr. Bush,'' he said. ''The embargo is how old now, two months? Well, that's eight weeks without food imports, and nobody has died here yet.''
''Iraq is a country rich in agricultural land,'' he said. ''We have all the area of Mesopotamia, between the Tigris and the Euphrates, and we can grow all the grains there we want. So don't expect that we will collapse because of the embargo, and don't think that we are afraid of a war. We ordinary Iraqis want peace, just like people everywhere else. But if you come with your troops, you will never forget the result.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); KUWAIT (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (59%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ); PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BOARD GAMES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); MUSIC (74%); RELIGION (72%); CITY LIFE (66%); POP & ROCK (60%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); 



277 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: For a Political Neophyte, the Preacher's Approach

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The trouble with the United States, said John R. Silber, the resolutely unorthodox Democratic nominee for governor of Massachusetts, is too much prosperity and too much materialism.
Quoting Francis Bacon and Juvenal and comparing Americans to the ancient Israelites, Mr. Silber said that the United States had ''enjoyed prosperity on an unprecedented scale for an unprecedented length of time,'' and that ''only a very small percentage of our population hasn't participated.''
The result, he said, sounding more like a preacher than a politician, was inevitable, because ''luxury destroys the moral fiber and temper and sense of realism and common sense among people and they begin to get a lot of fanciful ideas.''
For Mr. Silber, the 64-year-old president of Boston University who is on leave to make his first bid for public office, the worst of those fanciful ideas are the social and foreign policies advocated by most liberals. In an interview this week he heaped scorn on the way that Massachusetts and the country as a whole have dealt with problems of race, drugs, education and public health. 
 
'Sheer Malice'
He castigated television for exposing children to ''the total sordid range of human experience at very tender ages.'' He attacked journalists, who, he said, ''express their power by destroying things, because it takes a hell of a lot longer to build something.'' In his own campaign, Mr. Silber said, many journalists had demonstrated ''sheer malice'' toward him.
''If we want to stop the drug trade,'' he said, ''we have got to stop the demand, and the only way to stop the demand is first of all to recognize that the big money in the drug trade comes from people who earn their money honestly, and not from hoodlums and not from people who are drug pushers working in the bowels of the underclass. These are highly responsible lawyers, doctors, socialites, socially accepted women, professional women, who use drugs recreationally.''
Then, as always, the attention-getter, he would put them in jail.
''If you put a few yuppie lawyers in jail who make a recreational use of cocaine, if their pictures on the front page of The Globe, if they went to jail for three or four days, that would do a lot to put a stop to all that money flowing in,'' he said.
In a speech the other day, Mr. Silber mounted a bitter attack on what he described as the economic blunders of the Democrat he hopes to succeed, Michael S. Dukakis, and on the Republican candidate, William F. Weld, of whom he said: ''His experience is that of a lawyer and bureaucrat. I cannot think of two less useful qualifications for dealing with the crisis that faces us.''
 
A New Populism
The attention-getter: proposals to limit legislative sessions to six months and to limit legislators to three terms so that ''no one in Massachusetts will be able to plan for a lifelong career in state politics.''
It all comes pouring out in a great rush, thousands of words without pause - full of anger, full of ideas, a kind of egghead populism that captured the imagination of Democratic voters in this economically battered state and gave Mr. Silber a stunning upset victory in the primary on Sept. 18.
Much of the attention focused on what came to be known as ''Silber shockers,'' comments like his statement that he had no intention of going into one particularly crime-ridden black neighborhood to ''talk to a bunch of addicts'' about law and order.
In the interview, Mr. Silber conceded that a lifetime as a teacher may have inculcated in him habits that cause trouble with reporters looking for arresting sound-bites: ''If it's a class at 8 o'clock in the morning or if it's a class at 1 o'clock after lunch, you've got to get them awake and you've got to get their attention.''
But he argued angrily that journalists had ripped his remarks from their context, making it sound, in the case of the remark about addicts, as if he had never campaigned in Boston's black neighborhoods when, in fact, he had on many occasions. He added: ''If you want to have any kind of freedom of expression while you're talking about these subjects, there shouldn't be a requirement that a politician be deadly dull while he's doing that.''
Suggestions that some of his comments constitute a kind of code verging on racial exploitation cause Mr. Silber to explode in indignation. He cited, in great detail, his support for blacks going back to his boyhood in Texas and insisted, ''I've got the best record for race relationships and for doing something to support minority groups of any college president anywhere. Not Derek Bok at Harvard, not Paul Gray at M.I.T. or any of those people ever busted their tails on behalf of the integration of the Boston schools. I did.''
 
Failure of Welfare
The major error in the welfare system, he said, was that ''instead of encouraging the provider to stay with his wife, we rewarded his wife if there were no provider, and with that piece of social engineering, we declared war on poor families, and unfortunately it hit black families a lot harder than white families just because there were more of them at the poverty level.''
He continued: ''Now we've got the typical black male, aged 30, living with his parents, and the typical black female, aged 16, living in her own household, having married Uncle Sam. This was a piece of legislation, designed for a wonderful purpose, that backfired. Unlike real engineers who change their design when something doesn't work, we've just perpetuated this flawed design, year after year. Now I think we have to create rewards for responsibility and not rewards that depend upon persons adopting a passive, dependent role.''
His message involves large amounts of help for poor black children, including day care and incentives to get their mothers off welfare, which suggests that efficiency and not higher taxes will cure the state's fiscal problems. The message is anti-establishment and anti-elitist, but it is more cerebral than most populism. It lacks the anti-business bias of George C. Wallace and earlier Southerners, and it lacks the anti-government fervor of Ronald Reagan, who rode earlier waves of public dissatisfaction with government.
People ask him, Mr. Silber said, ''Why aren't you a Republican?''
''The fact that I don't believe in waste and I don't believe in fraud and I don't believe in unilateral disarmament doesn't make me a Republican,'' he said. ''It makes me a Democrat in the tradition of Franklin Roosevelt or Harry Truman or John F. Kennedy or Scoop Jackson. It doesn't give me much common ground with Dukakis. It doesn't give me much common ground with Jimmy Carter or Eugene McCarthy. But I believe in a pro-active government.''
Whom does he admire on the present-day political scene? He mentioned a mixed bag: Bruce Babbitt, the former Governor of Arizona, usually described as a centrist, ''a man who had interesting things to say,'' and Senator Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois, a liberal, a man with ''a very good mind,'' even if ''a little bit too ideological,'' and Representative John Murtha, Democrat of Pennsylvania, and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, especially because of his program linking pay increases for teachers to their performance on proficiency examinations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John R. Silber, Democratic nominee for governor of Massachusetts, criticized the way his state and the country dealt with race, drugs, education and public health. He was joined at a campaign rally in Boston by his running mate, Marjorie Claprood, and Senator John F. Kerry, right. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); CHILDREN (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); LAWYERS (66%); COCAINE (66%); 

PERSON: SILBER, JOHN R; APPLE, R W JR JOHN KERRY (79%); 



278 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
Countdown to Crisis: Reaching a 1991 Budget Agreement

 BODY:

Jan. 29, 1990 - President Bush sends a $1.2 trillion budget to Capitol Hill for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. The President says his plan will leave a $64.7 billion deficit.
March 5 - Congressional Budget Office issues its own analysis of the President's budget and predicts that the deficit will be about $131 billion. 
May 6 - Facing concern over a weak economy and high interest rates, President Bush calls the four top Congressional leaders to a private White House meeting. They agree to set ''no preconditions'' an effort to negotiate a bipartisan budget compromise.
May 15 - Congressional leaders and Bush Administration officials begin their ''summit meetings'' on the fiscal 1991 budget and its growing deficit.
June 26 - With the budget talks stalled, President Bush breaks with his ''no-new-taxes'' vow and says any deficit-cutting agreement would require ''tax revenue increases.''
July 16 - In its mid-session review of the budget, the Office of Management and Budget projects that without changes in taxes or spending, the fiscal 1991 deficit will be $168.8 billion - not counting spending for the thrift bailout.
Sept 7 - The budget negotiators meet at Andrews Air Force Base for a new round of talks.
Sept. 30 - President Bush and Congressional negotiators announce in the Rose Garden that they have agreed to a plan that would reducethe Federal deficit by $40 billion next year and by $500 billion over five years. It would raise $134 billion in new taxes over five years including higher taxes on gasoline, tobacco, alcohol and make deep cuts in Medicare. Congress approves a stop gap spending bill, good until Oct. 5, to keep the Government going in the absense of a 1991 budget.
Oct. 1 - Fiscal year 1991 begins.
Oct. 2 - Faced with a revolt in his party's Congressional ranks and wariness around the country, President Bush appeals on television for public support. He predicts ''economic chaos if we fail to reduce the deficit.''
Oct. 5 - President Bush and the Democratic leadership suffer a stunning defeat in Congress as the House rejects the budget compromise in an early morning vote. Late in the evening. Congress approves another stopgap spending bill, to keep the government running until October 12.
Oct. 6 - President Bush vetoes the stopgap legislation needed to keep the government running. Later in day, the House fails to override the veto by a vote of 260 to 138, 6 short of the two-thirds needed. The Government starts to close down, but the full impact is not felt. It is a weekend.
Oct. 8 - In the early morning hours, a weary and bitterly divided House passes a Democratic budget plan that would cut Medicare less severely than the plan rejected on Oct. 5. It would also leave room for a deal in which taxes on capital gains would be cut in exchange for raising income tax rates for the wealthy. The compromise contains very few specific and leaves Congressional committees with the power to draw up key components. Late in the day, President Bush and Congressional leaders agree on a bill that would avert a Government shutdown. The Senate approves it and sends it to the House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); VETO (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); MEDICARE (69%); FUEL TAX (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); ARMED FORCES (51%); AIR FORCES (51%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



279 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
After Budget Trauma, Still More Trauma Lies Ahead

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
For all the trauma that Congress has put itself through in the past four days to produce a budget, the real struggle lies ahead.
Over the next week and a half, nearly two dozen Congressional committees will be deciding how to make the spending cuts or raise the taxes needed to reach the deficit reduction targets in the budget for the 1991 fiscal year. If the past 15 years are any guide, the process promises to be a collision of competing regional, constituent and political interests as powerful chairmen and rank and file members vie to protect their pet projects or programs from the budget ax.
This fractious process is known as ''reconciliation.'' 
 
Finding Cuts, Piece by Piece
Under the process devised in the 1974 budget act, each committee is given a figure designating the amount that must be cut from benefit programs under its jurisdiction. The House and Senate Appropriations committees, which do not deal with entitlement programs, will be directed to hold spending for other types of domestic programs to levels that rise no more than the rate of inflation in each of the next three years.
When the final tallies from all the committees are in, the result is supposed to be a $40 billion reduction in the deficit for the 1991 fiscal year and a $500 billion reduction over five years.
The two panels with the biggest responsibilities are the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee, which have jurisdiction over both taxes and much of the Medicare program.
The tax committees have been asked to find about $3 billion in spending cuts and to raise about $13 billion in new revenues for the 1991 fiscal year, and they have been given the choice of spending cuts or tax increases to reduce the deficit by an additional $2 billion.
 
Lobbyists at Work
Their Democratic chairmen, Representative Dan Rostenkowsi of Illinois, and Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, were involved in many of the negotiations that produced the original deficit reduction package rejected by the House last week. And it is on their panels where most of the intrigue and horse-trading will occur. Both chairmen, however, were excluded from the final deal struck by top Congressional leaders and the White House, and both have expressed misgivings about the tax breaks for investments in small businesses that were included in that package.
''Every lobbyist in the world is now coming at us and saying, 'If you've got all that wiggle room, take care of me,' '' said one senior member of the Senate Finance Committee.
Many of these measures are likely to be substantially redesigned or jettisoned altogether. If a trade-off linking a cut in the capital gains tax rate and an increase in income tax rates for the wealthy comes to be, these are the two who will broker it.
Mr. Rostenkowsi, who favors a gasoline tax, may have trouble with Mr. Bentsen, who does not. While the two chairmen are expected to soften the blow to the Medicare program, they have a longstanding rivalry about how to do it.
To spare Medicare recipients from the brunt of the cuts in the program, the tax committees will be looking for alternatives, like reducing Government payments to hospitals and health care providers. In that battle, Mr. Rostenkowski, who represents Chicago, has traditionally tried to protect large urban hospitals.
Mr. Bentsen, on the other hand, has tried to look out for smaller rural hospitals, many of which have been forced to close their doors in the past few years because of previous Medicare cuts.
 
Cuts in Farm Programs
The two other panels that will bear a major share of the burden of finding budget cuts are the House and Senate Agriculture committees. Under the plan, the committees will have to find about $1 billion in cuts for the 1991 fiscal year and more than $13 billion over the next five years.
For Representative E. (Kika) de la Garza, the Texas Democrat who heads the House Agriculture Committee, and Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who heads the Senate panel, the task may be slightly less complicated than it will be for other committees, where negotiators will have to reconcile conflicting House and Senate versions of deficit-reduction measures.
By contrast, the two Agriculture chairmen have already spent months working on major legislation overhauling farm programs, and that legislation is now before House and Senate negotiators.
Most of the decisions on spending cuts will thus be made by the agriculture negotiators. That means fewer lawmakers and fewer competing consituencies to mollify.
But that does not mean the cuts will be painless, particularly for committee members like Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, and Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, both of whom face tough re-election battles this year.
A senior aide on the Senate Agriculture Committee estimated that the spending cuts required under the budget will mean a 10 percent reduction in income for the average farmer.
Essentially, the lawmakers face three choices to make the savings: reduce the number of farmers eligible for various subsidy and price support programs, cut the level of existing benefits or eliminate lower priority programs like those that help farmers sell their crops abroad.
Members of both the House and Senate Agriculture panels would like to tie some of the future year reductions to the outcome of current international trade talks.
The United States has been trying to get its trading partners, particularly the European Community, to reduce farm subsidies.
 
Wily Dealers
Farm politics tend to have more to do with region than party affiliation, and the battles ahead will pit cotton and peanut interests against those of wheat and corn.
In some ways, the House committee members have an advantage. They know the details and intricacies of farm programs better than their Senate counterparts, whose duties and outside interests involve them less in farm business.
On the other hand, Senate committee members will have an important and powerful champion in their corner: the Senate Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, who is a member of the conference committee.
Two other committees that will play critical roles in the deficit-reduction process are the House and Senate Appropriations panels, headed by two of the most senior and wily lawmakers in Congress, Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, and Representative Jamie L. Whitten, Democrat of Mississippi.
In the past 15 years, they have chafed at the incursion by the House and Senate Budget committees on more of their turf. But they remain a sanctum for last-minute deals.
Mr. Whittten, contemplating the spending strictures imposed on him by the lawmakers involved in writing the defeated budget package and their efficient plans to save money, does not relish the task. ''These folks just don't think like I do,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lloyd Bentsen, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, talking to a reporter before attending a meeting on the budget crisis. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); FUEL TAX (72%); INCOME TAX (68%); JURISDICTION (68%); MEDICARE (64%); INFLATION (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEN); RASKY, SUSAN F LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (61%); 



280 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
The Arab Nightmare

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
Almost every day, a particularly important falsehood keeps popping up about the choice facing the United States in the Iraqi crisis.
The choice is between trying to find a diplomatic formula that would persuade Saddam Hussein to get out of Kuwait but would leave him with military power, or seizing the moment to destroy him so that he can never again use his tanks, planes, poison gas and missiles to blackmail the world.
The falsehood: Israel is virtually the only foreign country that believes military action is the best course for the United States to take.
Most often this lie spills out of the brew that is kept aboil by Israel-haters of the American right and left. 
That is nasty enough in itself. But the danger is that it is coming to be assumed as true by many Americans who are not anti-Israel, but simply do not want to enter a war that only Israel supports. The assumption is becoming so pervasive that Zbigniew Brzezinski points to it as one of the risks of military action.
''At some point the public might blame Israel for allegedly having pressed America to go to war against Iraq for the sake of Israeli interests,'' he wrote on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times.
Possibly, but the admirable Mr. Brzezinski could have diminished the risk by adding another sentence about what he and other sophisticated opponents of military action know but often neglect to point out: The current Arab allies of the United States believe that to leave Saddam Hussein's power intact would be a disaster they could not survive.
Arab rulers opposing Saddam Hussein know that if he stays in power he will be victorious in the minds of the Arab world, defeating them and the combined political and economic strength of the West. They will be the losers in their own homeland, frighteningly next door to Saddam Hussein, not thousands of miles away in Washington or Europe.
The Saudi monarchy is likely to be brought down in a year or two by its internal enemies strengthened by agents dispatched by Iraq. If they are not eliminated immediately the Saudis and other Persian Gulf princes will once again try to buy off Saddam Hussein with oil billions.
President Mubarak of Egypt will find it impossible to stay in office for more than a couple of years. Some Egyptians who support him believe it may take the Egyptian fundamentalists that much time to overthrow him, not more.
But State Department specialists, who talked about Saddam Hussein's peaceful intentions before he attacked Kuwait, now put out stories about how to contain him peacefully. Nothing is more dangerous than diplomats trying to justify past mistakes by duplicating them in new policies.
So fantasies are floated. We will create a new order to protect the Middle East.
What Arab government would be stupid enough to sign up with this new, make-believe alliance if Saddam Hussein is left with a poison gas shell in his hand and his gangs of terrorists searching Arab capitals for high-ranking victims?
We will leave troops and stocks of weapons behind to deter the Iraqis, say the diplomats. Really? Name the Arab leaders suicidal enough to keep sliver Western units on their territory after full Western force was withdrawn unused.
''We will put an embargo on arms sales to Saddam Hussein.'' Sure, sure, but how do we deal with the production of the huge arms and chemical factories that the West and the Soviet Union already have built for him?
No Arab despotism is worth American lives. But the only justifiable reason for the American intervention was not for their sake, but for our own - to prevent one bitterly hostile dictator from dominating the Middle East, turning its oil on and off as his hatred of the United States moved him.
Out of Kuwait, but still in power, he will be able to stand astride the Middle East as he never could before the invasion. Arab rulers who oppose him will either be killed or do what he tells them to save their necks. He will control them and their oil by telephone.
Yes, the Israeli Government favors military action, but not joyfully and not just with its mouth. Saddam Hussein is unlikely to go down without trying to strike Israel. The gas masks are not a propaganda stunt.
President Bush will make his own decisions in his own time. But it could help if he told Americans beforehand the full story about which countries support or oppose military action and why. He owes that to himself for the support he will need, one way or the other.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (93%); KUWAIT (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; IRAQ; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: ARABS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%); 



281 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Realty Slump Traps Some as Buyers Nibble Warily

BYLINE: ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
During the giddy 1980's, restaurants from Columbus Avenue to TriBeCa reverberated with customer boasts of shrewd real-estate deals and tales of manic co-op profits. But the binge in housing prices did not bring universal cheer. For many people, high rents and heavy mortgages cast an anxious pall. Economists worried that the escalating cost of housing put New York at a competitive disadvantage.
Now that the cost of housing has plummeted, however, there are few audible sounds of relief.
Parties, dinners and other social events brim with stories of people who have put apartments or houses up for sale and received not a single bid. For those able to sell, the prices generally range from disappointing to crushing. 
Real-estate brokers say the price of New York City houses and apartments has fallen as much as 20 to 30 percent since the peak in 1988. The tumble, after seven years of growth, has dislocated the market, disrupted lives and disconcerted many New Yorkers for whom real estate has long been a barometer of personal well-being.
 
'Not Had a Single Offer'
Ellen Miller-Wachtel, a lawyer who works for a television network, put her Brooklyn Heights brownstone on sale in April. ''We have not had a single offer,'' she said. Her family's plan to move to Westchester has been delayed. ''The bottom line is that I wish it were my choice, as opposed to it being totally outside my control,'' she said. ''I think that's very frustrating to many of us who are used to controlling our life decisions.''
Hardest hit in practical terms are those who bought near the peak in the late 1980's and who must now try to sell, usually at a considerable loss. For those who bought earlier, the loss may be less financial than psychological, though hardly less distressing. Few seem reassured that their homes, purchased before the price run-up, are generally worth many times more than what they paid for them.
Sellers like Ms. Miller-Wachtel, unable to attract a buyer, feel immobilized. Some have taken their homes off the market or have rented them in the hope that the market will turn within a year or two.
While this is disconcerting to families who must delay cherished plans, there is a bright side for the city at large. Some real-estate executives say they suspect, based on the number of sellers, that more middle- and upper-income families are trying to flee the city than at any time in the recent past. But since it is so hard to attract buyers, the slumping market is keeping many of those families in New York.
The market's volatility has created great uncertainty. It is difficult to determine a property's current value or even a reasonable asking price. Ms. Miller-Wachtel said she had dropped hers by $100,000, but that, too, had produced no bids, not even a low offer that might start a serious negotiation. She declined to say how much she was seeking.
 
'Two Different Worlds'
''The problem we've got is that buyers and sellers seem to be living in two different worlds,'' said Carl F. Peek, president of the Prudential-Carl F. Peek Real Estate Company in Brooklyn. ''The sellers seem to think it's 1985 and 1986, and the buyers think it's 1930.''
Many potential buyers lack confidence in the economy, real-estate brokers and economists say. They are so concerned that the housing market will continue to slide that they are afraid to make a commitment, even though today's prices are bargains compared with those of just two years ago.
Sellers are uneasy, too. Brokers say many resist the need to drop asking prices, because they are obsessed with what their homes might have been worth two or three years ago. ''The major reference point still is, 'What would I have gotten?' rather than 'What can I get?' '' said Barbara Corcoran, president of the Corcoran Group, a Manhattan brokerage.
Of course, in a region as large as New York, there are exceptions to every trend. Sales still take place, though the rate has declined sharply, and some sellers obtain prices far beyond their expectations. A couple in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn, for example, sold their co-op last spring for $20,000 to $30,000 more than comparable apartments in the building have fetched.
 
For Some, an Opportunity
Some buyers see this as a great time to buy. Rebecca L. Feinstone, a corporate executive, is scheduled to close next week on a one-bedroom co-op in Murray Hill. ''I always wanted to buy in New York,'' said Ms. Feinstone, who has rented an apartment since moving to the city three years ago. ''I thought this was an opportune time to plunge in and do it.''
She said she was confident that the city's economy, and with it the real-estate market, would rebound soon.
Many sellers share that hope, perhaps a little desperately. Unwilling to accept real or perceived losses - or simply discouraged that they have received no offers - they have withdrawn their apartments from the market.
Dr. Steven Blumenthal, a pediatrician, bought a 4 1/2-room apartment two years ago on Riverside Drive at 111th Street. He and his wife decided earlier this year that they wanted to rear their two young children in a smaller city. They put their apartment up for sale in April while Dr. Blumenthal looked for a new job.
He got an offer to join a practice in Portland, Me., but turned it down because no one had bid on his apartment. He lowered the asking price by 7 percent, but still there was no interest.
 
Renting Instead of Selling
When the medical opening was still available a while later, the Blumenthals decided to take their apartment off the market, rent it to friends and move to Maine. They will have to rent a home there because their capital is locked away in the apartment.
The family hopes New York's market will be better in two years, but they are aware that they may have to take a substantial loss when they finally sell. In their co-operative, like many in New York, shareholders can only rent their apartments to outsiders for a limited time, usually a year or two.
Some co-ops do not permit any rentals, which can make owners prisoners in their apartments. Helen Kaptsan, a financial planner for Nynex, had planned to buy a house, after her apartment in Scarsdale, N.Y., and her fiance's apartment on Manhattan's Upper West Side were sold.
Her fiance, whom Ms. Kaptsan declined to name, bought his apartment two years ago. He sold it this year at a $40,000 loss, she said, adding, ''At least we sold it.''
 
A Matter of 'Expectations'
Ms. Kaptsan's one-bedroom apartment has been on the market for a year. She initially asked $109,000, and now is down to $89,000. No one has even looked at the apartment in the last two months.
She cannot rent the place either, under the co-op's rules. ''This has put a damper on our plans,'' she said, indicating that she did not feel deprived, in part because she had immigrated to the United States from the Soviet Union when she was 13.
''It's probably a lot different for my fiance, who is American-born,'' she said. ''His sense of frustration is probably a lot higher. Coming from Russia, expectations of having a house were not part of my upbringing.''
Some disappointed sellers say they strive to keep their problems in perspective, particularly in a city where tens of thousands of people are homeless and hundreds of thousands more live doubled-up in cramped quarters.
Still, the inability to sell a house or apartment carries economic and emotional burdens. Ann P. Heilakka, her husband and their two small children moved early this year to a house in Stamford, Conn. They simultaneously put their four-story brownstone in the Boerum Hill section of Brooklyn, on sale. They are now asking $445,000, a price that she says brokers consider appropriate.
''We have not had a single bid in 10 months,'' said Ms. Heilakka, a portfolio manager.
Some buyers, emboldened by the market shift that has given them far greater leverage, complain that the main reason properties are not selling is that owners have been too slow to adjust to the changed market.
''As a buyer, it is extremely unpleasant to go into a situation where you know someone is asking 30 percent more than something is worth,'' said Harry Rubin, an executive in an entertainment company, who began looking at Upper East Side apartments after his wedding in May.
Mr. Rubin thinks prices will continue to slide. Like many potential buyers, he is determined to pay not a penny more than what he calculates as ''real economic value.''
In June, he said, he looked at an apartment that was listed at $695,000. He bid $400,000, which was immediately rejected. ''Now the seller is indicating that he is willing to accept in the mid-400,000's,'' he said.
Where does that leave Mr. Rubin? ''Getting close,'' he said. ''But now I'm beginning to wonder whether $400,000 is maybe too high.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Steven Blumenthal and his wife, Holly Ovenden, in their Riverside Drive apartment in Manhattan. Even though they lowered the asking price of the apartment by 7 percent, there were no buyers. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN REBECCA L FEINSTONE (55%); 



282 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: After 3 Years, Gains in 'Decade of the Child' Are Isolated

SERIES: Third article of a series on Mario M. Cuomo's record as New York's Governor.

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 8

 BODY:
When Gov. Mario M. Cuomo presented his first Decade of the Child awards last month, it was a celebration of small and poignant victories over the unfathomable plagues of modern childhood.
Among those honored by the Governor was a high school dropout from Long Island who returned to school after kicking a drug habit with the help of a state-financed treatment program. Another citation went to an 18-year-old homeless mother from Chautauqua County who had secured housing with state assistance, enabling her to graduate from high school and find a secretarial job.
But as the ceremony seemed to suggest, the successes of Mr. Cuomo's ambitious Decade of the Child agenda must still be measured in individual accomplishments.
 
Complex Problems Remain
Three years and more than $1.4 billion after he declared the Decade of the Child, the exasperating reality is that the broader condition of New York's youth remains dismal. Because the increasing complexity of children's problems is outstripping the state's capacity to solve them, New York's government is merely treading water. And in the areas most affected by the drug epidemic, it is being tugged below the surface. 
With crack tearing families apart, the number of children in foster care has nearly doubled in two years, as has the number of recorded cases of child abuse and maltreatment. Although the state's welfare grant has been raised four times during the Cuomo years, nearly a quarter of the state's children still live in poverty.
While there has been significant success in attacking infant mortality, the progress has been diminished by growth in the number of babies born with dangerously low birthweights. Meanwhile the adolescent pregnancy rate has climbed steadily in the last six years.
 
Dropout Rate Rising
The high school dropout rate, after declining in the mid-1980's, is rising again, and there is a similar trend in the number of arrests of juveniles for violence and drug-related offenses.
Even the most critical advocates for children's causes do not blame Mr. Cuomo for much of the deterioration. Indeed, as the Governor seeks a third term, most applaud him for having the political courage to unveil lofty goals at a time when it was becoming clear that the state's social-service system was about to be battered by the overlapping waves of a new drug crisis and an economic downturn.
''During a very tough period, the Governor has managed to keep children on the agenda,'' said Barbara B. Blum, president of the Foundation for Child Development. ''Without the Decade of the Child we'd be seeing figures that were much, much worse.''
But other advocates contend that Mr. Cuomo has not dedicated enough of the money available to attacking root problems like poverty and drug abuse.
 
Further Problems Envisioned
With the state's economy sliding and its populace choked with new taxes from all levels of government, they fear that the bloodiest battles in coming years will be over maintaining existing programs rather than adding new ones. And they predict it will be increasingly difficult to expand the pilot programs that the state has used to build political support for its social services experiments.
Fiscal reality has forced Mr. Cuomo to become highly selective in allocating resources. He has targeted health and educational programs with proved records of providing long-term savings through modest investments.
But Mr. Cuomo has been reluctant to support programs that bear the risk of unlimited spending. This year, for instance, he cited budgetary concerns in vetoing a bill aimed at keeping children out of foster care by providing housing subsidies to families without shelter.
Michael S. Dowling, the Governor's deputy secretary for human services, said Mr. Cuomo's moderate approach and his skill at marketing children's programs as economic investments had made it possible to sell the Decade of the Child to the business community during difficult fiscal times.
Some critics complain that there should be little room for compromise on issues affecting children. And they argue that many of the solutions favored by the administration are often more reactive than preventive, that children are being caught by the state's safety net but that little is being done to keep them from falling.
''If we don't invest in these families now, we're going to be investing in their children and their children's children for a long time,'' said Elie S. Ward, a policy analyst with Statewide Youth Advocacy. ''If the state is willing to do a bond act for its environment, isn't it willing to do that for the people who inhabit that environment?''
When Mr. Cuomo declared the Decade of the Child in his 1988 State of the State address, he was smart enough to realize that there were few quick fixes for the complex problems associated with education, child welfare, juvenile delinquency, and children's health. As a result, he set few specific goals.
His political instincts, as usual, were right. The only two benchmarks he set that day - to cut the dropout rate by half and to provide half-day prekindergarten programs for all 4-year-olds within five years - are far from realization.
 
Commitment Seen as 'Watershed'
But simply by declaring that the future of New York's children ''demands a bold and broad commitment,'' Mr. Cuomo provided children's advocates with a rhetorical weapon they have not hesitated to use against him.
''I guess I saw it as at least a hook,'' said Eve Brooks, the director of Statewide Youth Advocacy. ''In retrospect, it really was a watershed because before that children were considered just another age group.''
Ms. Brooks is among those who believe that poverty is the root cause of children's problems and that the state's priority should be on raising welfare reimbursement rates.
New York ranks sixth among all states in the amount of its grant, which is $577 a month for a family of three in New York City. When combined with food stamps and state energy aid, that amounts to 90 percent of the Federal poverty level. But costs are such that housing alone absorbs most of the grant in places like New York City, and the state is being sued by welfare recipients who argue that their shelter allowance is inadequate.
The chief accomplishments of the Decade of the Child have come in the areas of health and nutrition. Financing for the state's nutritional assistance program for women and children has grown from $7.5 million in 1984 to $42.4 million this year.
There have been three expansions of Medicaid coverage for poor children and pregnant mothers totaling more than $100 million, although one of them was mandated by the Federal Government. Money has also been increased for the state's prenatal care program.
This year the Governor pushed through the Legislature a state-subsidized health insurance program for the children of the working poor. Although the plan covers only outpatient procedures for children up to the age of 13, and not hospitalization, as Mr. Cuomo had hoped, the program is one of the few of its kind in the country.
Impressed by the success of Head Start, the Governor has focused his education efforts on the expansion of prekindergarten programs. But two years before the Governor hoped the program would be universal, only 20 percent of the state's 4-year-olds are enrolled.
Most of the criticism aimed at the Governor's children's agenda concerns the state's response to the crack crisis, particularly in the areas of foster care and juvenile justice.
Spending on foster care, which is mandated, has increased by $538 million in three years, but only a negligible fraction of it has been spent on programs to prevent the dissolution of families ravaged by drugs and poverty. State officials concede that not enough money is being devoted to forestalling the problems of child abuse and homelessness before they incubate.
''In the best of all possible worlds we would intervene with the families much earlier,'' said Cesar A. Perales, the Social Services Commissioner.
The same critique is leveled at the juvenile justice system, where youthful offenders are being warehoused rather than rehabilitated, according to judges and social workers. For example, although 56 percent of the youths entering correctional centers of the Division for Youth need drug treatment, the state began providing drug counseling only this year. It is now available in 11 of 52 centers.
In defending his agency's record during the Decade of the Child, Leonard G. Dunston, the director of the Division for Youth, pointed to two pilot programs that provide alternatives to incarceration through intensive supervision at home and in foster care. But out of the more than 2,000 youngsters in the system, the programs accommodate a total of 26.

GRAPHIC: Graphs indicating poverty rate, infant mortality, droupout rates, foster care, birthweight and teen-age pregnancy among New York State's children (Source: Census Bureau, New York State of Social Services, New York State Department of Health and New York State Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); FOSTER CARE (73%); TRENDS (72%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (66%); POLITICS (65%); INFANT MORTALITY (64%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MARIO M CUOMO (97%); 



283 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Control Board Is Re-emerging As Power Focus

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
As word of New York City's financial distress circulates from the corridors of government to the financial marketplace, an almost forgotten state agency is re-emerging as a major focus of power in the city's future.
The Dinkins administration is facing a major test - will it get on top of a worsening muncipal deficit or risk losing the confidence of the public and markets?
In either case, the State Financial Control Board will set the terms of public debate, vindicate or vilify the administration and, in the worst case, wrest control of city spending from a Mayor and City Council elected by the public.
All this at an agency that found its warnings about deteriorating city tax revenues and fiscal uncertainties about the future largely ignored by the public in recent months.
 
'Times Have Changed'
''We have been actively articulating the view that times have changed, that business as usual has ended,'' said Allen Proctor, the 38-year-old former city budget official who was named executive director of the control board in January by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Mayor David N. Dinkins. But until now, Mr. Proctor said, ''nobody decided to write about it.'' 
With the Dinkins administration facing a financial crisis, the board is now the center of attention. The administration has yet to show that it will be able to pay for labor settlements after a surprisingly expensive contract with city teachers or to provide promised police officers at a time when tax revenues are falling.
The city has promised to submit a financial plan to the board by early November By JOSH BARBANEL As word of New York City's financial distress circulates from the corridors of government to the financial marketplace, an almost forgotten state agency is re-emerging as a major focus of power in the city's future.
The Dinkins administration is facing a major test - will it get on top of a worsening muncipal deficit or risk losing the confidence of the public and markets?
In either case, the State Financial Control Board will set the terms of public debate, vindicate or vilify the administration and, in the worst case, wrest control of city spending from a Mayor and City Council elected by the public.
All this at an agency that found its warnings about deteriorating city tax revenues and fiscal uncertainties about the future largely ignored by the public in recent months.
 
'Times Have Changed'
''We have been actively articulating the view that times have changed, that business as usual has ended,'' said Allen Proctor, the 38-year-old former city budget official who was named executive director of the board in January by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Mayor David N. Dinkins. But until now, he said, ''nobody decided to write about it.''
Now with the Dinkins administration facing a financial crisis, the board is now the center of attention. The Dinkins administration has yet to show that it will be able to pay for labor settlements after a surprisingly expensive contract with city teachers or to provide promised police officers at a time when tax revenues are falling.
The city has promised to submit a financial plan to the board by early November that will show that it is in control of its own financial destiny. It has already announced a hiring freeze and a proposal to lay off 15,000 city workers.
The governor, the mayor, the city and state comptrollers and three private members appointed by the governor sit on the board. Their approval of the plan could help restore the public's, as well as the financial markets', confidence in the city administration. Objections could undermine supporters of Mr. Dinkins who believe that he has not been given a fair chance to take his case to the public.
In the meantime, Mr. Proctor has been meeting weekly with the private members - Stanley S. Shuman, Donald D. Kummerfeld, Heather L. Ruth -who have become increasingly concerned about how the city administration has responded to fiscal difficulties.
 
A Legal Brief
Two weeks ago, even before the administration's problems became public, Mr. Proctor requested a legal brief detailing precisely what conditions needed to exist under the 1975 law that created the board before the panel could take over city finances.
At the same time he has been trying to dampen speculation that the current crisis will get out of control. He said the threat of a board takeover of city finances, like the threat of nuclear war, would go a long way to assuring that it would never happen.
''A lot of people, myself included, are issuing public statements of concern precisely to prevent a sense that there might be no end to disorder,'' he said. ''The city has ample opportunity to maintain an orderly budget process.''
He praised the city's statements that it was beginning an $800 million program of service cuts, including possibly 15,000 layoffs. But he said that so far he has seen no details and that the plan outlined so far would not do the job. The city has projected a $1.4 billion deficit, while the City Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, said it could rise as high as $2.6 billion.
But he said it was because the city was required to disclose its financial condition to the board that its problems have become known. ''That is not true of other governments in the United States,'' he said. ''Other governments are not talking about their problems.''
 
'Consistent and Deliberate'
Last night, as members of the Dinkins administration met at Gracie Mansion to discuss the city budget and labor negotiations, Albert Scardino, the Mayor's press secretary, said the adminstration had followed a ''consistent and deliberate'' approach to the city's fiscal circumstances.
''What has been unstable is the New York City economy,'' he said. ''The people of the City of New York elected him to be mayor. They did not elect the Financial Control Board.''
The control board can assume its stronger powers only if one of the following specific conditions are met: if the city runs a $100 million deficit at the end of the fiscal year; if it is unlikely to be able to pay the principal or interest on its debts; if the city and state comptrollers say the city can no longer borrow money, or if the city impairs its credit by violating budgeting and accounting practices required by the state.
Fiscal experts said that even if the city could not get its finances under control, the board would have difficulty acting for many months, unless the city has trouble selling its bonds.
The city plans to sell both revenue-anticipation notes and long-term bonds in the next few months.
 
'Plenty of Leeway'
State Comptroller Edward V. Regan said the Mayor and the City Council had ''plenty of leeway'' to cut the budget and reduce taxes, especially since Mr. Dinkins's budget calls for an increase of between 8 and 11 percent in spending.
But he added that the problem was one that was also of perception. ''If the city were to bounce up one hill and down the vale, with the situation of control at City Hall, there is no question that confidence and perceptions could change about the city.
''The problem would have to deteriorate,'' he said. ''The Mayor would have to be unwilling or unable to come to grips with the problem.''
Ms. Holtzman, the City Comptroller, said the city would have to have a ''credible comprehensive plan to balance the budget'' before the city could go to the market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL CONTROL BOARD (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); BONDS (59%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); BARBANEL, JOSH MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); 



284 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Patterns;
By Woody Hochswender

 BODY:

 
Some Aren't Crying
Name a fashion business that thrives when times are slow. (Hint: When it makes an entrance, Wagner is playing; as it exits, Mendelssohn.) You got it: the bridal business. Even in hard times, makers of wedding dresses can depend on a steady demand. In 1989, a rocky year for fashion, there were 2,404,000 marriages, the seventh greatest number in United States history, according to Government reports. That adds up to millions of high-ticket sales that don't require a lot of retail romancing. 
Last year, the average wedding dress cost $794, not including veil, which cost about $170, according to a survey by Bride's Magazine. This is market week for New York's wedding suppliers, and the orders have been encouraging, they say.
''The bridal business is pretty much recession proof,'' said Vincent Piccione, the president of Alfred Angelo of New York, the largest bridal manufacturer in the country. ''In tough times, more people get married. Two can live better than one.''
Last year the company made more than 750,000 dresses, including bridesmaid dresses, which are half of all sales, and expects business to increase by 10 percent this year. Although the number of single women in this country has been declining, second marriages are increasing and formal weddings for such marriages are becoming more acceptable, Mr. Piccione said.
At Carolina Herrera, where wedding dresses cost $2,500 to $6,000, business is up about 30 percent. Stylewise, there's a movement away from ornate, beaded, body-hugging looks toward pretty, classical looks with full skirts, fitted bodices and sparing use of lace and beads.
''I don't like these very sexy gowns with decollete and masses of embroidery,'' Ms. Herrera said.
 
To Benefit AIDS
 
With Seventh Avenue gearing up for a huge AIDS benefit next month, European designers are contributing to another effort. Rifat Ozbek and Jean-Paul Gaultier have designed special lines whose profits will be donated to AIDS causes.
It's all part of ''Red Hot and Blue,'' a benefit that will include a record album and video of musicians singing Cole Porter tunes (for example, Sinead O'Connor sings ''You Do Something to Me,'' U2 renders ''Night and Day'' and David Byrne croons ''Don't Fence Me In).
Samples from the two designers were being shown to New York retailers last week by Anneliese Estrada, widow of the designer Angel Estrada. The sweatsuit styles in psychedelic and harlequin prints will be available in February.
 
The Mood Wasn't Woolly
It was a beautiful weekend, unless you happen to be in the coat business. The Columbus Day weekend is considered pivotal to outerwear manufacturers, who look to retailers to reorder, for November and December delivery, based on October sales.
The 80-degree weather, with potential shoppers wearing shorts and strolling outside in the sun, was the last thing they needed. Several of New York's large retailers had advertised their fall-winter coats last week. On Sunday you could send a bowling ball down the aisles and not hit a shopper.
 
What About 'Maybe'?
One can now purchase all kinds of fashions with a message, from Iraqi-made watches with portraits of Saddam Hussein to T-shirts that read, ''Nuke the Simpsons.'' But a pair of Joe Boxer pajamas sold in Bloomingdale's sends out ambiguous signals.
The cotton pj's have the word ''No!'' printed in black letters all over them. When you switch the lights off, they say ''Yes!''
At $42, they are perfect for those times when the lips say no but the eyes say yes, yes, yes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (76%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS; APPAREL WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); MARRIAGE (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); APPAREL MFG (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TICKET SALES (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); MUSIC (65%); 

PERSON: HOCHSWENDER, WOODY CAROLINA HERRERA (54%); 



285 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Sabyasachi Mukharji, India's Top Justice, 63

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Sabyasachi Mukharji, the Chief Justice of India's Supreme Court, has died in London of heart-related complications, the authorities here said today. He was 63 years old. 
Justice Mukharji, who court officials said died on Sept. 25, had a legal career spanning four decades.
He was a lawyer in London after graduating with honors in economics from Calcutta University in 1946. He was general secretary of the Indian Socialist Group from 1948 to 1949.
On his return from London in 1949, Mr. Mukharji was appointed to the Calcutta High Court.
In 1982 was appointed member of the Government's Finance Commission.
He became a member of the Supreme Court in April 1983 and in the same year was appointed Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court.
Fifteen days after his appointment as acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, he was appointed a judge of the Supreme Court of India. Six years later, on Dec. 18, 1989, he was appointed Chief Justice of India.
Mr. Mukharji died on his way back to India after attending a conference of chief appellate judges in Washington last month. His death has further delayed judicial action in the case of the toxic gas leak at Bhopal in 1984.
He is survived by his wife and a daughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WEST BENGAL, INDIA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); KOLKATA, INDIA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (73%); 

COMPANY: CALCUTTA HIGH COURT (90%); CHIEF JUSTICE OF INDIA (90%); SUPREME COURT OF INDIA (69%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS APPOINTMENTS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JUDGES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (73%); 

PERSON: MUKHARJI, SABYASACHI (CHIEF JUSTICE) JUSTICE MUKHARJI (93%); 



286 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 2; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Richard Louie, 51, Smithsonian Official <888>

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Richard Louie, an associate director of the Freer Gallery of Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution system, died on Sunday in the Washington Hospital Center after being struck by a car on Saturday in Arlington, Va. He was 51 years old and lived in Arlington. Mr. Louie became assistant director of the Freer in 1978 and participated in the planning and financing of the Sackler in the 1980's. Both museums are noted for their collections of Asian art.
Mr. Louie, who grew up in the Cleveland area, received a bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1960 and master's degrees in Far East studies and economics from the University of Washington in Seattle.
Before joining the Smithsonian, he was an economist for the Institute for Defense Analyses in Alexandria; the Private Investment Company for Asia in Tokyo, and the United States Postal Service. Mr. Louie had also been president of Asian Development Business Services and vice president of May Lee Industries, both in New York City.
He is survived by his wife, Katherine Preciado; his mother, Gam B. Louie of St. Louis, and two sisters, Sue Fay King of St. Louis and Maie Lin Carrell of Evansville, Ind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (52%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (88%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: PRIVATE INVESTMENT CO FOR ASIA SA (69%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%); FREER GALLERY OF ART (84%); ARTHUR M SACKLER GALLERY (84%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (84%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (84%); FREER GALLERY OF ART (84%); ARTHUR M SACKLER GALLERY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR DEFENSE ANALYSES (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%); INSTITUTE FOR DEFENSE ANALYSES (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); POSTAL SERVICE (52%); 

PERSON: LOUIE, RICHARD RICHARD LOUIE (93%); ARTHUR M SACKLER (74%); 



287 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2036 words

HEADLINE: Next Bold Step Toward Fusion Proposed

SERIES: BIG SCIENCE: IS IT WORTH THE PRICE? - A PERIODIC LOOK AT THE LARGEST NEW RESEARCH PROJECTS

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

DATELINE: PLAINSBORO, N.J.

 BODY:
ON a grassy site here surrounded by cornfields and dense woods, not far from Princeton University, scientists want to build a machine of vast complexity and cost that they hope will lead to a powerful new source of energy half a century from now.
Their proposal is confronting the Bush Administration with a difficult choice as it tries to develop new sources of energy while cutting an enormous budget deficit.
The machine, the Compact Ignition Tokamak, would be the next stage of development in what is turning into a century-long quest to harness the kind of thermonuclear fire, or fusion energy, that lights the sun and produces the awesome blast of the hydrogen bomb.
Scientists here at the Princeton University Plasma Physics Laboratory say the new machine could be a major step toward ushering in a future age of relatively safe, cheap, clean and nearly inexhaustible energy.
But the device, meant to be switched on in 1998, would cost nearly $1 billion, a huge sum in an era of tight Federal budgets. Moreover, skeptics say the machine, even if successful, offers no guarantee that the field could advance in the 21st century to produce electrical power that would be economically competitive. They say that fusion advocates, long noted for promising more than they deliver, are engaging in another of their periodic bouts of hyperbole meant to promote Federal financing of yet another costly project. 
The new machine would be based on traditional ''hot'' fusion principles rather than the low-temperature or ''cold'' fusion that was proposed with great fanfare last year. The allure of cold fusion was that it seemed to promise enormous energy from simple devices that worked at room temperature, in contrast to hot fusion machines, which must operate at temperatures above those on the sun, and are vastly complicated and expensive. But after a year of intense investigation, most experts have dismissed the notion that cold fusion, if it exists, will ever be a significant energy source.
Controlled fusion, which seeks to fuse hydrogen atoms to generate bursts of usable energy, has long been one of the most risky, daunting, contested and costly aspects of big science ever undertaken by the Federal Government. Billions of dollars have already been spent but, even amid reports of progress, the goal of practical fusion energy always seems to recede into the distance. Today experts estimate that the payoff, if it comes at all, will represent an investment of tens of billions of dollars as well as roughly a century of hard work by generations of scientists. The pursuit got under way in the 1940's and, in optimistic Government scenarios, could culminate in the 2040's with the operation of the first commercial power plant.
Fusion produces energy by fusing, or welding, the atoms of light elements together. In contrast, the nuclear fission reactors now in operation generate energy by breaking apart the atoms of heavy elements like uranium.
In the interior of the sun, where temperatures are 14 million degrees centigrade and gravitational pressures are crushing, nuclear particles are driven so close together that they fuse and release vast energy. In a fusion reactor, the temperature must be even higher, around 100 million degrees centigrade, since the fusion fuel undergoes far less compression than materials at the center of the sun. The main fuel for fusion experiments is a heavy form of hydrogen known as deuterium, which is found in endless quantities in water.
For years, the main path to achieving controlled fusion has been to heat fusion fuel so it breaks into a cloud of electrically charged particles known as a plasma, which can be contained by magnetic fields. No earthly vessel would be up to the task. Any kind of metal, ceramic or glass would melt. So magnetism has been used to build increasingly powerful magnetic ''bottles,'' which today are usually housed in building-size machines that have a doughnut shape.
The job has not been easy. Edward Teller, a founder of the field, once said that confining the plasma with lines of magnetic force was ''like trying to confine jelly with rubber bands.'' The hot plasma would heat water to rotate turbines and generate electricity.
 
A Vast Supply of Energy
Despite the challenge, scientists here say the practical payoffs are so great that forging ahead is worth the risk and expense. In theory, they say, the process could extract far more energy from the top two inches of Lake Erie than exists in all the earth's known oil reserves. And they say the alternatives of relying on coal supplies that pose a threat of global warming, or on nuclear fission reactors that raise safety concerns and generate mountains of high-level radioactive waste, or on oil from politically unstable parts of the world, are likely to grow increasingly disagreeable in the 21st century.
''The fight over oil at $100 a barrel is going to make the fight at $30 look pretty trivial,'' said Dr. Rob J. Goldston, the scientific head of the proposed machine. ''The question is whether there will be a new energy source to keep us at a high level of civilization.''
Skeptics dismiss this type of statement as misguided at best. Dr. Lawrence M. Lidsky, a nuclear engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, quit the field six years ago because he felt fusion reactors would be too big, too complex, too expensive and too fragile to be practical. He still feels that way.
''It's hard to make an economically based argument for fusion,'' he said. ''You can't justify it, especially as other sources of energy look better and better, as people find better ways to gasify coal and build fission reactors'' that are safer.
In spite of such sentiments, the Federal Government may be edging toward greater support for fusion research. In late September, a panel of scientists, formed at the behest of Energy Secretary James D. Watkins, urged the department to greatly expand the financing of its fusion effort, citing progress in the field and the size of potential payoffs. Specifically, it backed the building of the new machine, which seeks to contain the energy of nuclear fusion with powerful magnetic fields.
Here at the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, the nation's largest center for fusion research, the current big machine is known as the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor (Tokamak being a Russian acronym for doughnut-shaped chamber). Built at a cost of $314 million and switched on in 1982, it recently achieved temperatures of 400 million degrees centigrade, a world record, and triggered fusion reactions that can be interpreted as just shy of break-even, the point where the energy released by a fusion reaction matches that put in to cause the fusion, if only for a moment. In the course of the decade, the machine has been slowly advancing the three key fusion parameters: temperature, density and time of plasma containment.
 
Introducing New Problems
The device, rising some five stories, emits a high-pitched whine during a ''shot.'' The critical action lasts one second before it dies out because of limitations in the plasma-heating mechanism and the need to cut rising temperatures of powerful magnets. In late 1993, the device is expected to reach break-even after its fuel supply gets a dose of tritium, a heavy form of hydrogen that speeds the reaction.
But tritium will introduce new problems. Nearby in a hangar-like hall is a $5 million robotic arm, some 25 feet long, that is meant to inspect and repair the machine's interior once tritium is added. Today people can go inside. But with the addition of tritium, the machine will vastly increase the production of subatomic particles known as neutrons, making its parts radioactive.
In a vacant lot next to this machine, Princeton scientists would like to take the next big step in the fusion venture, the Compact Ignition Tokamak, at a cost of $940 million. This would be the first machine in the world to achieve the true burning of fusion fuel, the point where fusion reactions are so abundant they become self-sustaining. Its ''shots'' would nonetheless be brief, lasting about 10 seconds.
To attain ignition, the new machine would reach the same general temperatures as the current machine but have a plasma that is far denser and less likely to lose heat, a feat achieved mainly by better design of its doughnut-shaped chamber and more powerful magnets. Its energy output would be much greater than the current Princeton machine.
So too, its need for robotic maintenance would be greater, since it would operate far longer with tritium fuel and the resulting fusillade of neutrons, which not only induce radioactivity but make parts brittle and prone to break. Dr. John A. Schmidt, the leader of the project, said its robots would cost about $66 million.
The proposed plan, which the Energy Department has yet to back, would have construction start in 1992, under the budget currently being prepared by the Bush Administration. $6 Billion Proposal Beyond that machine, the attainment of fusion energy would require a series of additional multibillion-dollar machines. One is known as the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor, a joint effort between the United States, the Soviet Union, Europe and Japan to build the world's first fusion reactor early in the 21st century. While the Princeton device would ignite fusion fuel in short bursts, the 10-story international machine, estimated to cost at least $6 billion, would be the first to operate continuously.
Some experts believe that fusion, more than any other ''big science'' project, will become a catalyst for international cooperation, since its research costs will become too great for any single country and the payoff would be so enormous that many countries will want to share in the venture.
Nevertheless, Dr. Kenneth L. Kliewer, dean of science at Purdue University, a self-described fusion skeptic who became an advocate after joining the Federal fusion panel, said the Princeton machine was a critical precursor to the international collaboration.
''We need additional and important data,'' he said. ''The Princeton machine gives the U.S. an opportunity to be a prominent and important partner in the fusion business.'' Several reports have recently said the United States is starting to fall behind the fusion efforts of other countries.
Beyond the international collaboration would be another machine, conceivably built by the United States alone, that would have, in addition to the reactor, a welter of pipes, plumbing and turbines meant to turn fusion heat into electricity. The Federal panel said such a Federal demonstration plant might be completed by 2025. The final step in the process would be the construction of a commercial plant, which the panel said might be accomplished by 2040.
Scientists here at Princeton say fusion is so attractive that the enterprise should proceed with dispatch. Fusion reactors might produce less radioactivity than their fission counterparts by a factor of thousands, they say. And a meltdown, the potential worst catastrophe of a fission reactor, is impossible with fusion.
 
Hurdles to Overcome
But skeptics note that the field is haunted by hurdles that threaten its commercial success. Dr. Lidsky of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology said the neutron barrage would be so great that the materials in a fusion reactor would probably be continuously damaged, hurting its prospects of ever turning a profit. A reactor, he added, would also be vastly more complex than a fission reactor, meaning it would probably break down a lot.
Princeton scientists say these are very real problems that the program seeks to address. Dr. Schmidt, head of the proposed new machine, said fusion researchers' aim was to develop new materials and metals that are far stronger than current ones. And he conceded that a fusion reactor would be ''much more complex,'' saying the program was trying to find ways to simplify the endeavor.
''There's no assurance that fusion power will be economical and competitive,'' Dr. Schmidt said, ''but that's the whole point of the program - to find out'' if that is possible.

GRAPHIC: Graph: The Federal budget for fusion research from '70 to '90 (Source: Princeton University) (pg. C1); Photo: The Compact Ignition Tokamak, proposed for construction at Princeton, would be the first machine to mimic the sun's source of energy (Princeton University) (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TITLE: COMPACT IGNITION TOKAMAK (FUSION DEVICE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: FUSION (NUCLEAR REACTION); RESEARCH; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ENERGY AND POWER; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FINANCES SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); PHYSICS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); POWER PLANTS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); PLASMA PHYSICS (71%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)



288 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 4, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Reclaim the Rain Forest

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: PARAGOMINAS, Brazil

 BODY:
FROM a 45-foot-high observation tower, the American ecologist surveyed a landscape that is increasingly common in Eastern Amazonia: white Nelore cows dotting fields of African coloniao grass that stretched to a distant horizon of rain forest.
''Once the forest is beaten down for the pasture is it gone forever?'' asked Daniel C. Nepstad, the ecologist. ''That is the conventional wisdom in the United States and Europe.''
Swiveling, gingerly because of the swaying tower, Dr. Nepstad answered his own question by pointing to a pasture that was abandoned 10 years ago. What once was a field was lost under a tangle of vines, woody bushes and saplings 25 feet tall. 
''This is the future,'' said Dr. Nepstad, who recently earned his doctorate from Yale University's School of Forestry and Environmental Studies for research here on regeneration of the Amazon rain forest. ''It will be missing a whole lot of animal and tree species, but it will be a forest.''
Since 1984, an American-financed research team has been investigating human impact on the forest, and researchers feel that their findings will give advance warning of future trends as Brazil's penetration of its vast Amazon wilderness expands and takes new forms in the 1990's.
The researchers have discovered that selective logging of the forest is surprisingly destructive, that conditions for vast devastating fires exist and that regeneration of land used as pasture depends on how heavily it has been used.
 
An Area for Study
Situated three degrees south of the Equator and sprawling over 10,422 square miles, Paragominas was chosen largely because it was considered a ''mature'' Amazon frontier municipality. The first ranches were cleared from the rolling hills and valleys here in 1964, the year a two-lane highway was pushed through.
''It's an old frontier, and you can pick out the patterns,'' said Christopher Uhl, a plant ecologist from Pennsylvania State University who started the project with funds from the National Geographic Society.
One significant and surprisingly destructive pattern in the Amazon's future will be selective logging, Dr. Uhl warned.
Increasing steadily in recent years, wood harvests from the Amazon region now account for about half of Brazil's total, up from 14 percent in 1976. The number of commonly marketed species has jumped from 6 in the 1950's to about 140 today. In Paragominas municipality the number of sawmills has jumped to 300 now from one in 1970.
At the current rate of expansion, much of the Amazon forest could be selectively logged by the middle of the next century, Dr. Uhl calculates.
In a study of two forest tracts here, only 2 percent of the trees were harvested, according to research by Dr. Uhl and a Brazilian plant ecologist, Ima Celia Guimaraes Vieira.
But this selective logging left a destructive trail: 26 percent of trees with trunks greater than four inches in diameter were killed or damaged. Twelve percent lost their crowns in felling, 11 percent were uprooted by bulldozers and 3 percent had their bark scarred.
Cutting 2 percent of the trees also caused the canopy cover to be roughly cut in half, from 80 percent to 43 percent. Such a ''gapped'' forest is vulnerable to further destruction by wind, vines and fire.
Virgin tropical forest rarely burns in the Amazon because of its high humidity. But compared with virgin forest, selectively logged forest in Paragominas is 25 percent drier and 33 percent hotter, and has three times as much combustible material, largely dead branches, vines and saplings.
 
High Risk of Fire
''Six days without rain is enough for the combustible materials to be ready for burning,'' Dr. Uhl and his colleagues wrote in the August issue of Ciencia Hoje, the monthly publication of Brazilian Society for the Progress of Science.
Ranchers and farmers here and in the rest of the Amazon routinely use fire to clear weeds and tree sprouts from pastures near logged forests. Similar conditions created a mammoth fire in Indonesia in 1982 and 1983 that burned 14,300 square miles of tropical rain forest, destroying an estimated $5.5 billion in hardwood.
Studying rainfall patterns with a grant from the World Wildlife Fund, Dr. Uhl and his colleagues concluded, ''The data show that conditions already exist for fires of great size in eastern and southern Amazonia.''
Tropical forest damage during selective logging can be cut in half if loggers plan the trails used to gain access to the trees to minimize damage.
But research here found that loggers have little economic interest in using costly and time-consuming techniques. The loggers do not own the land they forest, and they are under pressure to cut as much wood as quickly as possible. The dry season lasts six months.
Faced with the end of government loans and tax credits, and the steady degradation of pasture, many ranchers are selling logging rights to their forest reserves in order to finance bulldozing, replanting and fertilizing of their pasture land.
Given the emerging fire threat from reckless logging practices, Dr. Uhl said, the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources should start a campaign to promote less wasteful logging techniques and then enforce them.
 
After the Pasture
Turning to another future development, Dr. Nepstad has studied the eastern Amazon's emerging ''post-pasture ecology.''
''Most of the land originally cleared for pasture will not be used for pasture - it was only valuable with government subsidies,'' said Dr. Nepstad, a staff scientist with the Woods Hole Research Center of Massachusetts, which helps finance the research here.
As much as 25 million acres of the Amazon was cleared for pasture in the last two decades. But lacking in soil nutrients, much of the land loses its utility for grazing cattle after four to eight years. In recent years, ranchers and small farmers have abandoned as much as 15 million acres of cleared land.
''At least 50 percent of the land cleared for pasture will be let go,'' Dr. Nepstad predicted as he walked by chest-high underbrush covering an abandoned pasture. ''The perception in the United States and Europe is that deforestation is a terminal event.''
Instead, Dr. Nepstad discovered that forest regeneration depends on the amount of tree roots in pasture soil, the level of old forest seeds in pasture soil, the spreading by birds and bats of seeds from neighboring old forests, and the survival rates for seedlings in the face of drought, cutter ants, and root competition with field species.
''There are a series of overlaid sieves that strain out all but a few species,'' the ecologist said of his work conducted with National Science Foundation grants. ''The cut forest is often gone forever, but clearly something comes up.''
 
Regeneration Possibilities
Research here has confirmed a popular perception: the lighter the land use, the faster the rain forest regeneration. Fields that had only one year's use as pasture regained after eight years of abandonment about one third, or 80 tons, of the original forest vegetation. These plots supported 21 to 25 tree species.
More common to Paragominas is moderate use, grazing for six to eight years and weeding with machetes and by fire. Eight years after abandonment, these study plots had regained about 10 percent of forest vegetation, with 16 to 19 species taking root.
Given current abandonment rates, Dr. Nepstad believes that a major issue in the Amazon in the 1990's will be, ''What do you do with 10 million acres of regrowth forest?''
Answering his own question again, the biologist turned to one experiment, a test field planted with seedlings of 30 varieties of fruit and nut trees. Among the undergrowth of the abandoned pasture were seedlings of several internationally known trees, Brazil nut, mango, mahogany and cashew, and seedlings of local Amazon fruit trees, sapota, genipapo, cupuacu and urucu.
''One man with a machete tends 500 plants a week,'' he said of the seedlings, which on the average would yield a commercial value in four years. ''You can restore agricultural production to these lands at a low cost.''

GRAPHIC: Map: Paragominas, Brazil; Photos: Daniel C. Nepstad, ecologist, using a probe to examine roots at a research station in Paragominas, Brazil. He has discovered that rain forest regeneration depends heavily on how many tree roots remain in pastures. (Bob Strong for The New York Times); Chainsaw operator logging in the rain forest in Paragominas. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); EQUATOR (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (52%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AMAZON JUNGLE

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; RESEARCH; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES RAIN FORESTS (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); MAMMALS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); FOREST FIRES (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); TRENDS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); GEOGRAPHY (68%); SAW MILLS (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES CHRISTOPHER UHL (88%); DANIEL C NEPSTAD (59%); 



289 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
President Bush and Congressional leaders agreed on stopgap spending legislation that averted a suspension of most Government services. The agreement came shortly before the Senate adopted the broad outline of a budget identical to the one the House approved earlier in the day. [Page A1.] 
 
New York City's economic weakness and budgetary problems are starting to spill over into the financial markets, which may make it increasingly costly for the city government to issue bonds to raise funds for municipal operations. Professional investors sold more than $30 million of city bonds on Friday, traders said. [A1.]
 
California voters will weigh steep new taxes on wine, beer and liquor to support alcohol-abuse and mental-health programs. [A23.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Three unions are expected to present to UAL's board an offer to buy the parent of United Airlines for about $160 a share, or a total of $3.5 billion. Of that, only about $70 a share will reportedly be in cash, while the rest will mostly be in notes secured by airplanes. [D1.]
 
The nation's three leading long-distance carriers have sharply increased spending on advertising and other marketing this year. Recent television and print campaigns are becoming nastier. [D1.]
 
Philips is developing a digital tape recorder that will also be able to play conventional analog cassette tapes, it announced. [D1.]
 
Motorola and Hitachi reached a settlement in their dispute over chip patents. [D4.]
 
Nordstrom's Paramus store appears to be off to a strong start in its first month, analysts and company executives say. [D17.]
 
Dow Jones said its net income fell 17.5 percent in the third quarter as the acquisition of Telerate weighed on profits. [D19.]
 
Continental Airlines ordered 25 new Boeing 757's, with an option for 25 more, in anticipation of long-term growth. [D4.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Although the pound jumped and London stocks soared in response to Britain's formal entry into the European Monetary System, some economists said the euphoria may be short-lived. [D1.]
 
As Washington's diplomatic relations with Hanoi begin to thaw, the Administration is under increasing pressure to end a 15-year-old trade embargo. [D1.]
 
A group of American experts has taken on Bulgaria's moribund economy and has drawn up a plan for transforming it. [D20.]
 
MARKETS
 
Oil prices moved up again on scattered military news in light trading, with crude up 96 cents, at $38.95 a barrel. [D2.]
 
Stocks moved up in light trading after moving sharply higher at first on hopes of a break in the budget deadlock. The Dow gained 13.12, to 2,523.76. [D10.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities dipped and interest rates rose slightly in thin trading overseas. [D20.]
 
The British pound took center stage again in foreign exchange trading, while the dollar weakened. [D21.]
 
Prices of soybean futures soared as much as 17 cents a bushel amid heavy speculative buying. [D21.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Support is growing for taxpayer-supported subsidies to help buy private health insurance for low-income people. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
 
Problems at other insurers are probably less severe than at Travelers, analysts say. Market Place. [D10.]
 
SportsChannel has found its first sponsor for high school sports broadcasts: Gatorade. Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (66%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); UAL (NYSE) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (66%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); BULGARIA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (66%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); BOEING CO (55%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); PRICES OF TREASURY (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); BOND ISSUES (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BEER & ALE (74%); AIRLINES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (69%); BRITISH POUND (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); COMPANY LOSSES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); MENTAL HEALTH (54%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 



290 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Hard Tests Seen for British Despite European Linkup

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Although the British pound jumped and the London stock market soared in response to Britain's formal entry into the European Monetary System, some economists warned yesterday that the euphoria might not be long-lived and that the British economy still faced difficult tests.
The decision to join the system, which was announced on Friday and was effective yesterday, sent the pound climbing. It was up almost 4 cents, or 2 percent, on Friday and more than 2 cents, or 1 percent, yesterday, to $1.9760, in New York trading. [Page D21.] The London stock market's Financial Times-stock exchange index jumped 73.5 points on Friday and another 57.7 yesterday, to 2,201.6, for a two-day rise of 6.3 percent. Other European stock markets, including those in Germany and France, were also buoyed yesterday by the decision. 
But Britain's entry into the monetary system, which ties the value of the pound to other leading European currencies, does not change the nation's fundamental problems, including high inflation and an economy near or in a recession, nor does it make them any easier to resolve.
In addition, the entry into the system does not provide new evidence of the Government's resolve to fight inflation. In fact, an accompanying cut in Britain's interest rates, also announced on Friday, seems to undercut the resolve to curb inflation, which is usually battled with higher rates. In the short term, the rate cut, although overshadowed in Friday's announcement, is a more important policy change than the decision to join the monetary system.
The gravest short-term risk, both for the pound and the stock market, economists said, was that the financial markets would lose confidence in the Government's intention to continue the fight against inflation. This risk exists because the cut in the official interest rate - by one percentage point, to 14 percent - came even though the country's inflation has yet to begin to decline. Britain could have joined the system without any change in interest rates, but the Government said the slowing economy justified the rate reduction.
The cut in rates also adds a new political bias to the Government's economic policy, which could backfire, analysts said.
The Conservative Government of Margaret Thatcher could face a disaster if further cuts in interest rates, which are now expected before a possible election in 1991, result in a sharp decline of the pound that would force the Government to raise interest rates sometime next year to keep the pound within the ranges established for it in the European Monetary System.
There is also the possibility that the cut in interest rates now will mean that once the British economy begins growing at a healthy pace again, inflation will not have fallen sufficiently, and that could force a new round of rising interest rates.
The underlying inflation rate in Britain, which excludes the impact of the poll tax and mortgage interest rates, is around 8 percent, 2.4 percentage points above the average for Europe.
 
Downward Pressure Expected
Several analysts also said yesterday that they felt that the pound would likely begin to come under downward pressure as new data show the British economy slowing further.
''The major impact of the decision Friday in altering expectations is not joining the European rate mechanism but the cutting of interest rates early,'' said John Lipsky, director of international bond research at Salomon Brothers in London. ''Monetary policy is geared to near-term political possibilities that had not been understood before.''
He and many other analysts are now predicting that Prime Minister Thatcher will call the election next year and that interest rates will be cut further to stimulate the sluggish economy and to bring down mortgage interest rates.
 
Political Motivation Denied
John Major, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, denied in a televison interview on Sunday in London that the decisions to join the monetary system and lower interest rates were politically motivated or a reflection of a easing of the Government's stand against inflation. And he said that he would be willing to raise interest rates if inflation continued to rise.
But Mr. Lipsky said that the chancellor's explanation of the policy change was not good enough to offset these concerns. The interest rate cut, he said, still came ''even before inflation has peaked, even before the autumn wage negotiations and even before any convergence of the inflation rate toward the much lower European average.''
Beyond the short-term outlook, the move to join the European Monetary System poses some longer-term pain for the British economy. Warren Oliver, an economist at UBS Phillips & Drew in London, said that Britain was likely to continue for some time with an underlying inflation rate above the rest of Euorpe.
 
Costs Will Remain Higher
But because the pound is now tied to other European currencies, with only a 12 percent range to move in, the higher inflation rate will mean that British companies will become less competitive against their European rivals because their labor and other costs will remain higher.
This process of adjustment and declining competitiveness, which France and other European countries in the monetary system have gone through, is likely to force another round of rising interest rates in Britain to cool inflation.
But Mr. Oliver is not confident that either British companies or British labor unions will respond quickly with the changes needed to reduce costs and make exporters more competitive. So this adjustment process, he said, could be difficult.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A London currency trader dealt with a steady flow of business yesterday as the pound rose on Britain's entry into the European Monetary System, which was announced on Friday and was effective yesterday. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



291 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Urged To End Hanoi Trade Curb

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
As Washington's diplomatic relations with Hanoi begin to thaw, the Administration is under increasing pressure to end the 15-year-old trade embargo that excludes American business from the country that many economists and business executives say could become Asia's next industrial tiger.
Since Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and the Vietnamese Foreign Minister, Nguyen Co Thach, met in New York on Sept. 29 for the first high-level encounter between officials of the Governments since 1973, speculation has increased that trade normalization may come soon.
 
Groups Pressing for Shift
The pressure is coming from lawmakers and business executives who argue that the sanctions are of diminishing foreign policy importance and are hurting the long-term economic interests of the United States.
The United States Chamber of Commerce notes that other countries are expanding their trade and investment in Vietnam, while American business is kept out. The board of the business organization unanimously passed a resolution in early summer calling for normalization. 
''It's time,'' said William T. Archey, the chamber's international vice president.
While State Department officials are sympathetic, they point to the still-bitter issue of 1,678 American servicemen lost in Vietnam whose status has not yet been resolved.
The Baker-Thach meeting set up a process for further accounting by Hanoi of the American personnel. Mr. Thach is expected in Washington around Oct. 17 and will see Gen. John W. Vessey Jr., the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who is the special Presidential negotiator on the issue of the prisoners of war and those missing in action.
Mr. Thach is also expected to meet with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, several of whose members want to lift the sanctions, which have been in effect since the United States pulled out of Vietnam in 1975. The committee is preparing hearings on the issue early in the next session of Congress.
Supported by economists of the World Bank, many business officials see Vietnam, which has adopted ambitious enterprise-oriented measures, as a market about to take off.
 
New Growth Market
The World Bank has completed studies showing that Vietnam bears an uncannily similar economic profile to South Korea of 1965, which was then just emerging from a long period of economic stagnation after the Korean War. For instance, the gross national product per capita for Vietnam in 1988 was $109, compared with $106 for Korea 25 years ago. Exports as a percentage of national output were 10.3 percent for Vietnam, compared with 9.5 percent in Korea.
Korea today is one of a group of Asian industrial nations that are known as the tigers because of their great economic strength surging out of market-oriented policies. Other tigers include Taiwan, Singapore, Malyasia and Hong Kong.
World Bank and other economists say Vietnam, in efforts to attract foreign capital, has gone even further than new democracies in Eastern Europe in writing liberal investment and banking laws in the last year. Vietnam's new investment law, for example, provides both for joint ventures and for 100 percent foreign ownership of local property.
 
Now Exporting Rice
A former rice-importing nation, Vietnam has now become a rice exporter, thanks to new agricultural policies. About 80 percent of its farm economy is in private hands, according to World Bank economists, and about half of its food market is privately operated.
Steven K. Baker, Citicorp's division head for North Asian Countries, said the economic conditions in Vietnam could offer even greater market potential in the coming decade than China.
But while the sanctions remain in effect, advocates of rapprochement say, the United States risks losing out to Japanese, European and other Asian competition.
Before Vietnam's withdrawal of an estimated 300,000 troops from Cambodia last year - a condition set by the United States for normalization -American allies grudgingly supported the embargo.
 
Requirements Are Met
But today most of these countries say that Vietnam has satisfied fundamental requirements for trade relations. Japan announced last week that it was allowing its banks to operate in Vietnam for the first time since 1975.
The Bush Administration, on the other hand, now says that before normalization, Vietnam must cooperate on a comprehensive peace settlement for Cambodia. Some American businessmen and lawmakers say the imposition of this new condition is equivalent to moving the goal posts.
The President's advisers, however, are divided on how to proceed. Mr. Baker, according to Administration officials, is more eager to repair the economic links with Vietnam than the national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft. Their deputies, Robert Kimmitt and Karl Jackson, have clashed repeatedly on the issue.
Hotels and business centers in Vietnam, meanwhile, are described as full of non-Americans ready and willing to do business.
 
War Zone to Trade Zone
Thailand has taken the lead in efforts to transform Indochina from a ''war zone into a trade zone,'' as Thai leaders like to put it.
Through the end of last year, Vietnam had approved 106 foreign investment projects with a total registered capital of $1 billion. Hong Kong, French, British, Australian and Thai concerns completed the most agreements.
The biggest losers may have been American oil companies. Off-shore oil drilling and exploration leases for what are considered especially promising tracts in the South China Sea went to such foreign companies as Shell, British Petroleum and Total of France.
To assess the pent-up demand for expanding into the Vietnam market, Citibank recently canvassed 162 companies involved in commerce in Asia. Seventy-five percent expressed an interest in doing business right away, 85 percent over the longer term.
Fifty-seven of the 87 participating American companies indicated an interest in Vietnam business.
 
Loans Being Sought
To support its market-oriented policies and help raise capital, Vietnam, as a member of both the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, is pressing to borrow from both institutions.
For the time being, it cannot, because it is running $140 million of past due debts with the I.M.F. Arrears bar a country from any dealings with the twin organizations, which offer loans to support market-oriented economic policies in third world countries.
Yet later this month, according to international monetary officials, the Vietnam arrears are likely to be paid off, making Vietnam once again eligible for bank-fund assistance.
This would create thorny problems for Washington. Should the Administration try to block the aid, it could antagonize allies the United States has courted in the Persian Gulf crisis.
Should the aid go forward, American business would complain that it was being shut out of a country being aided by American-supported international institutions, further increasing the pressure for a lifting of the sanctions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABCC (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3581 AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINES (91%); 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); VIETNAM (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS COMPUTERS CORP (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS NETWORK INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS PRINTING INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS EQUIPMENT INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS CARDS INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS SERVICES INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS PRODUCTS INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS SERVICE & COMPUTER TECHNOLOGIES INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS INFORMATION INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ALLIANCE INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS INSURANCE INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS SYSTEMS INC (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS FORWARDERS CORP (91%); AMERICAN BUSINESS PARTNERS (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; VIETNAM

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); KOREAN WAR (71%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) STEVEN K BAKER (59%); 



292 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Scattered Military News Lifts Oil by 96/, to $38.95

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
With little diplomatic news from the Persian Gulf, oil prices moved up again on scattered military news in light trading yesterday, a holiday for some.
Crude oil for November delivery closed up by 96 cents, at $38.95 a barrel, in trading at the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The close was the third highest since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. But several traders said there were few developments, if any, worthy of moving the market. 
 
'Continuing Tidbits'
''It's just continuing tidbits out of the Middle East,'' said Peter C. Beutel of the Pegasus Econometric Group of Hoboken, N.J. ''Helicopters missing, things like that, don't make you feel all that secure.'' Two Marine helicopters with eight men aboard were reported missing yesterday after what the Navy said was a ''routine night training mission.''
News that a British warship fired across the bow of an Iraqi freighter with a cargo of food and stopped it also buoyed prices, as did a report of a jet plane crash that killed two American pilots in Saudi Arabia. In addition, violence between Palestinians and Israelis pushed prices up, some traders said.
''In a market that's trading at these levels,'' said Brian W. Tagler, an energy futures trader at Lehman Brothers, ''a couple of news items like that are enough to support the market and keep prices on the run.''
 
Fears and Momentum
Mr. Beutel said that what moved the market were ''fears that nothing has gotten better in the Middle East,'' along with momentum. ''A market in motion wants to keep in motion, and continue in the same direction it has been going,'' he added.
At Purvin & Gertz, a Houston consulting firm, Ken Miller, an analyst, said: ''The movements in the markets these days are a function of technical and psychological reaction. There really is no fundamental basis for this kind of radical move.''
Gasoline prices rose 1.11 cents, to 93.75 cents a gallon, and heating oil rose 0.26 cent, to 102.96 cents a gallon, in contracts for delivery next month.
Oil for delivery in later months also rose. December oil was up 90 cents, to $37.77.
 
Worries Again a Factor
November oil has moved from a post-invasion peak close of $39.51 on Sept. 27 down to $33.95 at the close on Oct. 2, in reaction to a speech by President Bush at the United Nations that included some conciliatory words. But according to Mr. Tagler, ''that's already over a week old; that's becoming ancient history now.'' He added, ''The worries about the future are being factored back into the price.''
The supply of oil appears to remain balanced with demand, however. The executive director of the International Energy Agency, Helga Steet, told a conference in London yesterday that there were no critical shortages, and that there would be none unless there was an unusually severe winter or an industrial accident.
 
Differences in Estimates
Experts differ about precisely how much the crisis has reduced oil output. The Middle East Economic Survey, a newsletter based in Nicosia, Cyprus, estimates that September production by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was 22.49 million barrels a day, compared with 23.5 million in July, meaning that the gap was a million barrels a day, which is a little under 2 percent of world production. The Energy Department has been predicting that the shortfall, which was initially 4.3 million barrels a day, would shrink to under a million barrels a day by November.
But Platts, another newsletter, put September production at 22 million barrels a day. Part of the difference between the two estimates was for Saudi Arabia; the Middle East Economic Survey put the Saudi increase at 2.1 million barrels a day, but Platts said it was less than 1.9 million. They also differed on estimates of output from Venezuela and other OPEC producers.
Experts say consumption is down, too, in response to higher prices. But demand is up, because nervous buyers want to prepare themselves for a siege. Thus, stocks may be rising as the crisis progresses.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Oil prices per barrel from 7/90 to 10/90 (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (74%); HELICOPTERS (74%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 



293 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: More Women Own Concerns

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
The number of United States businesses owned by women climbed by 57 percent between 1982 and 1987, the Census Bureau reported last week.
The bureau said American women owned 4.1 million companies in 1987 - the most recent year for which statistics were available - or 30 percent of all businesses in the nation, up from 2.6 million in 1982. 
The number of new enterprises owned by women grew four times faster than the overall rate of business creations in the United States. From 1982 to 1987 the total number of new businesses rose by 14 percent.
The Census Bureau said women's businesses had total receipts of $278 billion in 1987, 13.9 percent of the total.
Most women were sole proprietors of their concerns. Only 4 percent owned their businesses through partnerships and 6 percent through small corporations. The bureau said its survey did not include larger corporations.
Just over half of the women-owned companies were described as personal or business services, while 19 percent were classified as retail trade and 11 percent as finance, insurance and real estate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WOMEN WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (91%); WOMEN (91%); CENSUS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (67%); 



294 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Anticipating Growth, Continental Buys Jets

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Continental Airlines said today that it had ordered 25 new Boeing 757 jets, with an option for 25 more, in anticipation of long-term growth.
The firm order, including engines and spare parts, is valued at about $1.2 billion and will be financed through ''significant participation'' by the Boeing Company and the engine manufacturer, Continental said in a statement.
Continental said it had not yet chosen between Rolls-Royce P.L.C. and Pratt & Whitney for the engines. 
In Seattle, a spokesman for the Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, Craig Martin, declined to discuss Boeing's financial arrangement with Continental. ''We never comment on such arrangements with our customers,'' Mr. Martin said.
A Continental spokesman, David Messing, said: ''We're looking at the long-term needs of the airline. We know we have higher fuel prices, and some expect a recession, but we want to add capacity for when the economy returns to strength.''
The 757, a twin-engine aircraft that seats up to 190 passengers, will replace older aircraft when delivery begins in May 1993.
Mr. Messing also said the order would help the airline to save money if fuel prices remained high because the 757's were more fuel-efficient than other models.
''This order is a significant component of a well-reasoned fleet plan we have developed for the '90's and beyond,'' said Continental's chairman and chief executive, Hollis L. Harris, who replaced the confrontational Frank Lorenzo as head of the airline earlier this year.
''The 757 is especially well suited for service on our high-density, medium-to-long-distance domestic routes,'' Mr. Harris said. ''We feel this order will make a substantial contribution to our other plans for improving the quality of our service.''
Continental also has an order with Seattle-based Boeing for 100 of its 737's, some of those on option, and with the French consortium Airbus Industrie for 40 long-range A330's, some of those also on option.
With the order announced today, Continental has a total 190 aircraft on order, including 95 on option, to add to its fleet of 338 aircraft.
Continental's stock rose 37.5 cents a share today, to $4.50, on the American Stock Exchange, while Boeing gained 37.5 cents, to $43.875, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); UAL (NYSE) (92%); RRS (FRA) (72%); RR (LSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (94%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); AIRBUS SAS (84%); ROLLS-ROYCE HOLDINGS PLC (72%); PRATT & WHITNEY (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; BOEING CO

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOEING 757 AIRPLANE AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: CRAIG L MARTIN (71%); CRAIG L MARTIN (57%); 



295 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Ford to Shut Down 2 Plants in Ohio

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LORAIN, Ohio, Oct. 8

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company will close two plants in northern Ohio next week because of a shortage of dealer orders, the United Automobile Workers and company officials said. 
A Ford spokesman, Joel Pitcoff, said the Lorain assembly plant, which makes Mercury Cougar and Ford Thunderbird cars, would be closed for a week beginning next Monday. The shutdown affects more than 4,800 workers. Don Schnur, president of U.A.W. Local 2000, said there would also be a weeklong shutdown at the company's Avon Lake Econoline van plant, affecting about 1,400 employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (87%); AURORA, OH, USA (87%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OHIO

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (88%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (86%); 

PERSON: JOEL PITCOFF (55%); DON SCHNUR (55%); 



296 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Control Data Unit To Martin Marietta

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BLOOMINGTON, Minn., Oct. 8

 BODY:
The Martin Marietta Corporation will purchase the Control Data Corporation's reconnaissance systems business segment for an undisclosed price, the companies said. The Air Force must approve the transaction.
Control Data was awarded the reconnaissance system contract in 1988 to provide sensor integration and management systems to the Air Force's Aeronautical Systems division. The system records video information on magnetic tape that can be transmitted directly from aircraft to ground stations. Martin Marietta's stock rose $1.25 a share today, to $39.375, while Control Data's slipped 37.5 cents, to $8.625, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (97%); ARB (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (94%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (97%); CERIDIAN CORP (94%); ARBITRON INC (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); US AIR FORCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTROL DATA CORP; MARTIN MARIETTA CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (83%); 



297 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: U.S. View of Soviet Market

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Trading on a Soviet stock exchange could start next year, but foreigners will probably remain on the sidelines until the ruble is convertible, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange said today.
John J. Phelan Jr., the Big Board's top executive, and a delegation of 20 Wall Street executives were invited to Moscow to give a three-day seminar on the nuts and bolts of running a stock market. Dealings in stocks and bonds has been illegal in the Soviet Union since the 1917 revolution.
Mr. Phelan predicted that whatever economic plan was finally adopted, within the next 18 months the Government will have reorganized financial structures, permitted the development of private companies and lifted legal restrictions on private transactions between individuals. He added that a stock exchange could begin as soon as late in 1991.
More than 400 Soviet bankers, economists, academics and Government officials attended the course on securities, American style, seeking explanations for several concepts foreign to the ideology of Communists and to their command economy.
Mr. Phelan said long-term foreign investment in a Soviet stock market probably would require a fully convertible ruble, the right to export profits and the right to receive dividends in a stable currency. The state now controls the price of the ruble against world currencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY STOCK EXCHANGES (95%); CURRENCIES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: PHELAN, JOHN J JR JOHN J PHELAN JR (91%); 



298 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Sales Strong for Jersey Nordstrom's

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARAMUS, N.J.

 BODY:
Nordstrom Inc.'s store here, its first in the New York metropolitan area, appears to be off to a strong start in its first month, industry analysts and company executives say.
Nordstrom executives refused to give details on the store's sales but said it had had the best initial sales volume of any of the company's three East Coast stores.
Managers at competing stores and securities analysts who have long followed Nordstrom said the opening sales, if sustained, would allow the store to reach sales of $100 million in its first year. That is well above average for large new stores. 
When the fashion clothing store opened on Sept. 7 in the Garden State Plaza shopping center, some analysts and retail store consultants wondered how it would fare, given the slump in the New York area's retail economy.
 
Ahead of Rivals
Thomas Rauh, the director of retail consulting for Ernst & Young, said that based on early reports of foot traffic and sales estimates, the Paramus Nordstrom should match the 1989 company-average sales of $475 a square foot. If so, that would put it well ahead of rivals like Macy's, Bloomingdale's and May Company stores. Macy's stores, for example, average $250 a square foot. The new Nordstrom store has 245,000 square feet spread over three levels.
''Even if they underperform their own company average in Garden State Plaza in the first year,'' he said, ''they will outperform the department stores in the area.''
Some analysts say that sales at Nordstrom's East Coast stores will help offset the slumping sales of those on the West Coast, where most Nordstrom stores are situated. But the company is still taking a cautious stance for the rest of the year. Several weeks ago, it said that it planned to reduce its staff natonally by 6 to 12 percent, but would leave the details to its individual store managers.
Jack McMillan, Nordstrom's president, said he was pleased with the early sales but concerned about the shaky economy in the Northeast.
''We're off to a great start and running above our planned sales,'' he said in a telephone interview from Seattle, where the company is based. ''But I think we have a mixed message. The regional economy is tough, but our store is kicking off well. Since we want to expand further, we are concerned whether the economy's turndown will be short- or long-term. So how fast should we go in expanding beyond the other two New Jersey stores we have planned?''
Nordstrom, with 62 stores nationwide, is noted for its high level of customer service. It opened its first East Coast store in April 1988 in the Tyson's Corner shopping center in McLean, Va., and followed it in October 1989 with a store in Pentagon City, Va., both near Washington. The Paramus store is larger than either of those. Other New Jersey stores are planned for Edison and Freehold.
 
Reversing the Usual Pattern
Strong sales in the first few weeks at the new store are no guarantee of long-term success. But Cody Kondo, Nordstrom's corporate vice president and general manager for New Jersey, said the second Saturday after the opening was as strong in sales as the first Saturday. ''That is the reverse of the usual pattern,'' he said.
''The store seems to be doing very, very well,'' said Lawrence Stone, the chairman and chief executive of Stern's department stores, based in Paramus. ''It is always active and apparently very successful.''
So far shoes, men's wear and children's apparel are the leading departments in sales volume at the Paramus store, company officials said. They added that sales of women's wear had not fared as well.
R. H. Macy & Company, which has operated an anchor store in the mall since 1957, says that since Nordstrom's arrival on Sept. 7, business has picked up at Macy's 440,000-square-foot store.
Although Macy's in Paramus had started a $31 million renovation almost a year before Nordstrom's appearance, once Nordstrom announced its entry, ''we decided to accelerate our renovations in two key areas: the men's wear departments and the 'better' women's apparel area,'' said Joel Sneider, Macy's senior vice president and director of stores in the Northeast.
 
Service a Factor
When asked why they thought Nordstrom seemed to be doing well, shoppers often mentioned the novelty of an unfamiliar big new store and Nordstrom's customer service.
''I first learned of Nordstrom's fine customer service when I visited Seattle,'' said Shirley Lieberman of Springfield, N.J. ''They have a well-deserved reputation for being attentive and solicitous to customers.''
Dianne Mauro of Passaic, N.J., said: ''The atmosphere is pleasant. They explain everything to you. Other department stores pack in too much merchandise, so it is hard to move around.''
One loyal Macy's customer voiced an exception. Claire Surgan of Cresskill, N.J., said: ''Nordstrom's prices are much higher than Macy's. Nordstrom has this reputation for service, but Macy's has its own program and you get more attention from the salespeople.''
Mr. Kondo, the Paramus store's general manager, said there was no special manual of customer-service rules that employees had to memorize or any extra-tough training program to prepare them to meet demands by Northeastern customers.
''But we urge our 35 department managers to hire 'nice people' who can respond well to the customer,'' he said.
It does not hurt that salespeople earn commissions, raising some salaries to as high as $100,000 a year.
Even so, some Nordstrom employees in the state of Washington filed labor grievances, charging management had put pressure on them to do many time-consuming tasks for customers for which they were not paid. In August, the company said it had reached a settlement.
Marlene Kraut, one of the Paramus store's 900 employees, said she sometimes went to great lengths for her customers - from booking a manicure to scouring the store for shoes and accessories to match an outfit.
Mr. Stone of Stern's said Nordstrom's marble floors, big atrium and high ceilings set the store apart from others in the area.And Nordstrom's main section echoes with the sound of classical music played on a grand piano.
Macy's, not to be outdone, now has a pianist tinkling light show music in its remodeled women's department on the second floor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The children's department at the new Nordstrom store in Paramus, N.J. In its first month, the store appears to be doing well despite the overall slump in the New York area's retail economy. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (94%); M (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (94%); MACY'S INC (93%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORDSTROM INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PARAMUS (NJ)

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); SALES PROJECTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



299 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Plan to Turn Engineers Into Teachers

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
IN the 1960's and early 1970's, when employment was relatively stable, many big companies like the Digital Equipment Corporation worked on the theory that they would not have mass dismissals or voluntary early retirements during economic downturns or corporate reshufflings. Now, it is a different story.
Digital Equipment, of Maynard, Mass., in the once-booming high-tech area around Boston, said in its annual report that 3,000 people voluntarily accepted a financial package to resign last year - its first effort to shrink the size of the company. The company took an accounting charge of $455 million to reflect those employee separations and related expenses. The program has continued this year. 
Much more quietly, it began in January to train a small number of engineers to become teachers.
Each engineer selected for the Digital program had at least a bachelor of science degree and five years' employment at Digital as well as a good performance rating. All went through 10 weeks of discussion about the move.
Of 30 offered the program, 26 decided to resign and study for the transition to teaching in school or college the subjects they know best: mathematics, physics, engineering and computer science. Digital expects to have 60 more participants by the spring of 1991. Nationally there has been an extreme shortage of able teachers in these subjects at high school or college levels, and jobs should be available.
Each participant receives an allowance of 40 to 104 weeks of pay, depending on length of service, much like the package offered the 3,000 who resigned. For the engineers in the special program, Digital provides tuition reimbursement up to $13,000 for a year of approved full-time study or two years part time, plus $2,500 to cover costs like books and laboratory fees. It also maintains medical, dental and life insurance coverage for one year.
The initial group of 26 ranges in age from the 20's to the early 60's and has a variety of backgrounds.
Cindy M. Capuano, 29 years old, who graduated from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Worcester, Mass., with a bachelor of science degree in industrial engineering, worked for Digital for seven years in quality control, manufacturing and purchasing. ''I have always been interested in teaching,'' she said in a telephone interview, ''because my father and mother are teachers, and that made the transition easier.''
She now teaches computer science to grades 4 through 12 at Hudson Catholic High School in Hudson, Mass., and an adjacent elementary school. Several afternoons a week she drives to Cambridge, Mass. to take courses at Lesley College, where she is working toward a master's degree in computer education.
Bruce D. Smith of Hancock, N.H., who is 62 and spent 16 years with Digital, calls the program ''just right for the country.'' It is also just right for him. He is working for a master's degree in liberal arts at Keene State College in Keene, N.H.. He already has a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology and a masters's from Drexel University.
''My thesis will be engineering in contemporary society,'' he said. ''My goal is to influence the educational process rather than to teach. There is a critical shortage of applied engineers who use fundamental principles to create new products and improve quality of old ones.'' He hopes to be an administrator.
Some in the group are working mothers with master's degrees. Several attend Harvard University for education courses needed for teaching certificates.
Many universities like Harvard now offer midcareer opportunities for transition to teaching and other jobs, and so encouraging engineers to make such a move is not new. What is new is the large amount of friendly suggestion and financial support given by Digital.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); TUITION FEES (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); QUALITY CONTROL (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); DENTAL INSURANCE (62%); INTERVIEWS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (57%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M



300 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Issues Off in Foreign Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dipped and interest rates rose slightly in thin trading overseas yesterday, as market participants in the United States took Columbus Day off.
Analysts said the small drop in prices, which amounted to as much as 3/8 point for some securities, was somewhat surprising, because the dollar was battered on foreign currency markets.
At the close of trading in Europe, the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 99 11/32, down 9/32, to yield 8.81 percent, up from 8.78 percent late Friday. 
On the Chicago Board of Trade, which was open for business yesterday, the near Treasury bond futures contract closed at a price of 90 15/32, down 15/32.
Although the House of Representatives approved a vaguely worded budget agreement late Sunday night, and the Senate appeared likely to do the same, it remained uncertain late yesterday whether President Bush would go along with the plan.
The House also approved an increase in the Federal debt ceiling, to $3.19 trillion. The increase would be enough to carry the Government through Oct. 20. The Senate, which was deliberating over the budget last night, was also expected to approve the increase in the debt ceiling.
Should Mr. Bush decide to veto the new budget, the debt ceiling would not be raised and today's auctions of three-month and six-month Treasury bills would be delayed, analysts said.
Despite the budget proposal's vague terms and promises, economists said they did not anticipate an adverse reaction in the credit markets to the plan when traders return in force today.
''I don't think the market will be tremendously put off by it,'' said Susan M. Hering, an economist at Salomon Brothers. ''People may be a bit more disturbed by the fact that the accord is a bit flimsier than its predecessor. But you can't cast stones right now because you don't know what is in the package.''
Under the terms of the budget agreement reached by the House, specific spending cuts and tax increases are to be agreed to by various Congressional committees over the next two weeks.
Activity in other debt markets was limited because of the holiday.
Prices of investment-grade and high-yield ''junk bonds'' were unchanged in extremely sparse trading.
And participants in the tax-exempt municipal bond market said prices of New York City bonds, which were marked down by as much as 2 points on Friday, were basically unchanged yesterday. As on Friday, few city bonds actually changed hands yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (83%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (83%); PRICES OF TREASURY (71%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); DEBT CEILING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); CURRENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); FUTURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); VETO (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 



301 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Bulgarian Strategy Is Made in U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
A group of American experts has taken on the moribund economy of newly democratic Bulgaria and has drawn up a plan for transforming it into a supply-side, free market.
Their work, under the auspices of the United States Chamber of Commerce, was hailed by President Zhelyu Zhelev, who said during a visit here last month that major features of the American plan would be adopted and incorporated into Bulgarian law later this month.
The so-called Action Plan for Bulgaria was drafted by 18 Americans, including some high-powered Reagan Administration officials. It includes such predictably simple recommendations as ''privatization of the means of production and distribution'' and ''basic reform of the monetary, banking and fiscal systems'' to remove impediments created by 45 years of Communist rule. 
 
Guidelines and Deadlines
It is in the details and timetable worked out by the Americans, in cooperation with Bulgarian specialists, that the plan displays its originality as a schedule for transition from what remains largely a Communist economic structure to one recognizable as a Western model.
For example, the plan declares it ''absolutely essential for the functioning of a market system'' that by the end of the year, Bulgaria should adopt a ''privatization program,'' begin basic monetary reform and allow free circulation of foreign currencies, eliminate wage and price controls, take steps to protect the poorest elements of the population from hardships and agree on tax reform. It then provides precise guidelines for carrying out these measures.
''It is the most fascinating thing I have ever done in my life,'' said Richard W. Rahn, vice president of the Chamber of Commerce and its chief economist. It is a sentiment echoed by the other Americans on the project, which was initiated last spring.
''The only way to prevent me from going back to Bulgaria is for the U.S. Government to take away my passport or the Bulgarians to deny me a visa,'' said Charles E. McClure, a former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, who wrote the chapter of the plan on tax policy.
Another enthusiastic participant is Eugene L. Stewart, a Washington lawyer who specializes in commercial legislation. Mr. Stewart, who is 70 years old, spent August taking apart the Commercial Code of Bulgaria, which was promulgated in 1896, and rewriting it to make way for modern international business transactions.
Charles Murray, the conservative social thinker, who is the author of ''Losing Ground,'' contributed a chapter on revision of Bulgaria's social welfare policies.
The chapter on privatization was written by Ronald D. Utt, former associate director of the Office of Management and Budget and now vice president of the National Chamber Foundation, the research arm of the Chamber of Commerce, which has sponsored the Bulgaria project.
Mr. Rahn said in an interview that the impetus for the plan came from Government officials in Sofia who were aware of a lecture he gave last winter in Hungary on transition to market economies. ''They invited me in March,'' he recalled.
He met with economists of the post-Stalinist Government that had taken power in November 1989 and with Prime Minister Andrei Lukanov, himself an economist. ''We need technical assistance,'' Mr. Lukanov and the other Bulgarians told Mr. Rahn.
After visits by an American delegation to Sofia and a Bulgarian delegation to Washington, the American team spent several weeks in August in Bulgaria working with their counterparts on the final draft of the plan, which was put together and printed in late September. The head of the Bulgarian delegation is Ivan Angelov, economic adviser to Mr. Lukanov.
Evidence of the enthusiasm of the members of the American group may be seen in the fact that they have paid their own way to Bulgaria and have donated their time, Mr. Rahn said. As far as he could tell, the Chamber of Commerce's Bulgaria plan is unique in terms of its Western origin and its comprehensiveness.
 
Acceptance Likely
In a news conference at the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Zhelev said he was confident the Bulgarian Government would accept virtually all the recommendations, even though the Government is in the hands of the Socialist Party, which is the successor of the former ruling Communist Party.
''They will be eager to proceed,'' he said, ''because otherwise the Government will fall.'' Mr. Zhelev heads the main coalition of opposition parties in Bulgaria.
The American team delivered its 600-page draft to Mr. Lukanov in Sofia last week. The Bulgarian reform program is to be taken up in the Grand National Assembly on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BULGARIA (96%); 

COMPANY: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (68%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (58%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BULGARIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PRIVATIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID RICHARD W RAHN (70%); ANDREI LUKANOV (68%); 



302 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Pound Rises Sharply Again; Dollar Ends Broadly Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The British pound took center stage again in foreign exchange yesterday, while the dollar weakened against all major currencies amid continued economic jitters.
Market activity continued to focus on the British pound's entry into the Exchange Rate Mechanism of the European Monetary System. The mechanism links European currencies to one another to avoid large swings in exchange rates. The move, which was announced on Friday and sent the pound surging, is expected to help Britain fight inflation and improve that country's economic prospects. 
The pound jumped to $1.9745, from $1.9455 late Friday, in London, and to $1.9760 from $1.9525 in New York.
Trading over all was thin, with many United States banks closed in observance of Columbus Day.
Timothy Barton, an assistant vice president at the Harris Trust and Company in Chicago, said technical factors, along with concerns about the weakness in the United States economy, helped depress the dollar in trading against other major currencies.
 
Budget Plan Awaited
Most traders in the United Statesd and abroad were also awaiting a new deficit reduction package. The House passed a new budget plan overnight Sunday, offering an alternative to a proposal that was rejected in Congress last week.
A narrower gap between the Government's revenues and spending would probably result in a drop in interest rates, and that is expected to further depress the dollar.
In Tokyo, where trading ends before Europe's business day begins, the dollar fell to a one-and-a-half-year low against the Japanese yen, closing at 130.05 yen, down from 133.72 on Friday. It traded at 130.70 yen in London, and 130.48 in New York, down from 132.20.
Against the German currency, the dollar fell in New York trading to 1.53225 marks, down from 1.5475.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's quotes, were: 1.2800 Swiss francs, down from 1.2940; 5.1300 French francs, down from 5.1850; 1,151.50 Italian lire, down from 1,160.25, and 1.15135 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1524.
In the bullion market, gold prices rose after declining overseas. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $394.90 an ounce, up $1.30 from late Friday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $395 an ounce, up $1.
Gold fell in London to a late bid price of $392.45 an ounce, from $394.35 late Friday. In Zurich, gold closed at $391.80 an ounce, down from $394.40. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $3.26, to $388.69.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (51%); HSB (PAR) (51%); HBC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (51%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (51%); NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (95%); BRITISH POUND (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); 



303 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: WARNING IS ISSUED TO NEW YORK CITY ON BOND RATINGS

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
In a sign of concern about New York City's fiscal condition, the Standard & Poor's Corporation warned yesterday that the city's credit rating on its bonds might fall and that it must revise its financial plan ''in line with the realities'' of a slipping economy.
Citing questions about how the city would balance its budget in the face of growing revenue shortfalls, rising costs, pressure for labor settlements and proposed police hiring, Standard & Poor's, one of the nation's major credit rating agencies, placed the city's $13 billion in general-obligation bonds on ''credit watch.''
If the city's credit rating fell, it would cost more for it to borrow money to build roads, bridges, parks and the other long-term projects that it is already planning to scale back to save money.
Fiscal experts said the move was not unexpected and reflected the levels at which the city's bonds had recently been trading. But it was the first time that Standard & Poor's had placed the city on a credit watch in the nine-year history of the warning, and in doing so, it prodded the Dinkins administration to act aggressively to close a budget gap for the next fiscal year, now estimated at $1.4 billion or more. 
 
'A Heightened Concern'
The rating agency noted that the city had a ''history of 10 years of satisfactory financial operations'' and that it had successfully closed substantial budget gaps in many of those years. It said that if the rating dropped from its current level, A-, it was expected to fall within the BBB category, where it was in the mid-1980's and which is still considered investment grade.
''It's a heightened concern,'' said Hyman Grossman, a managing director at Standard & Poor's, who is one of a handful of experts responsible for revising the ratings. ''We're looking for them over the next two or three months' time to create a plan that's credible and that moves forward based on the new reality of a weakened economy and the counterproductivity of continual tax increases.''
The other major rating agency, Moody's Investors Service, does not have the city's rating under formal review and no immediate change is contemplated, said Jeffrey F. Rizzo, a managing director. But he added, ''We may be coming out with a comment in the next day or so to report on recent developments.''
Market reaction to the Standard & Poor's announcement was fairly muted.
Prices of outstanding New York City bonds fell by about half a point yesterday, municipal bond traders said. But prices of fixed-income securities fell sharply yesterday, and the drop in city bonds was in line with declines recorded by other issues, dealers said.
Last week, Mayor David N. Dinkins said he was considering the layoff of at least 15,000 city workers as well as hundreds of millions of dollars in service cuts to close gaps in the budget for the current and coming fiscal years. He also announced a partial freeze on hiring and a moratorium on most raises.
Asked yesterday about the credit warning, Mr. Dinkins said, ''I don't think it is a reflection on my stewardship.'' He added: ''Certainly, I didn't affect the economy. We've had a downhill run.''
''I'm confident that we're going to be able to satisfy them that we have a plan as to how to meet this gap,'' the Mayor said.
 
Quarterly Revision
The city is to submit its regular quarterly revision of its four-year financial plan to the State Financial Control Board next month.
Earlier this year, the state was placed on a credit watch and its bond rating was eventually lowered to A by Standard & Poor's, in a rebuke to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the State Legislature for their failure to pass a budget on time. At that time, city officials expressed satisfaction that their credit rating was not under review, thanks in part to the stringent budget controls imposed during the city fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's.
Yesterday, the city's Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, said the credit watch was ''a disappointment'' but said he was ''very confident that we're going to be able to take up their challenge'' and present a revised plan that ''reaffirms our ability to work through these problems.''
 
'Ducks All in a Row'
''We have our ducks all in a row,'' Mr. Michael added. ''We know where the problems are and we're going to knock them off one at a time.''
But it was precisely because the administration did not appear to have all its ducks in a row that it came under mounting pressure last week from fiscal monitors to explain its overall plan for dealing with a budget gap that it had been warning of for weeks.
The city began last week with a tentative agreement on a 5.5 percent pay increase for teachers - financed with previously budgeted money and a mix of other uncertain sources - that a number of outside fiscal monitors criticized as too costly. Then, Mr. Dinkins proposed $1.8 billion in new taxes over the next four years to finance a major anti-crime plan, on top of more than $800 billion in higher taxes passed to balance the current budget.
Most of the new taxes would require approval by the Legislature, which has expressed reluctance to pass them, as would much of the money for the teachers' settlement, which involves recalculating pension fund earnings.
Only after proposing such spending did Mr. Dinkins impose the hiring freeze and suggest that the city might have to lay off thousands of workers.
 
'Clearly Not the Answer'
Mr. Grossman of Standard & Poor's said the issues raised by that sequence of events were among the questions the agency wanted to review with the city.
Privately, some mayoral aides linked the credit warning to a report by City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman last week suggesting that the budget gap for the coming year might be nearly twice as large as the administration's estimate.
Yesterday, Ms. Holtzman issued a statement saying the city ''can preserve its credit rating and overcome its budget difficulties by developing a credible, comprehensive budget plan.''
The State Comptroller, Edward V. Regan, the state's highest ranking Republican, said of the warning, ''It is a not unexpected further manifestation of the problem and underscores the need for the city to live within its means and brace for harder times ahead.''
The Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, said the city intended to proceed with its planned offering of about $800 million to $1 billion of new general-obligation bonds next month and was confident the credit rating would not be lowered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (96%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (96%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; POLICE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BONDS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); TRENDS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); TAX LAW (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



304 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET AGREEMENT;
BUSH HINTS AT RISE IN TOP TAX RATES, THEN BACKS AWAY

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
President Bush said for the first time today that he might agree to an increase in income tax rates for wealthy Americans as part of a budget compromise, but he later abandoned that position under strong pressure from Republican senators.
A few hours after signing a stopgap measure that averted a shutdown of most Government operations, Mr. Bush said in a morning news conference that if Congress agreed to the cut in capital gains taxes he had long sought, he would consider higher income tax rates. [Excerpts are on page A18.] He changed his mind after an afternoon meeting at which 17 senators opposed his proposal, throwing the already confused budget negotiations into near chaos.
Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, said the President agreed with the lawmakers' ''uniform position that we will not go up on the rates, no matter what.'' 
 
Democrats 'Thunderstruck'
White House officials confirmed his account tonight. One Presidential aide said Mr. Bush had concluded that a deal along the lines he had specified ''is not worth fighting for.'' The aide said the President had listened to the senators in silence, ''and it's fair to say he aquiesced in their views.''
The effect of the switch from morning to afternoon was to put Mr. Bush in a more partisan position than before, allied with Congressional Republicans against the Democrats. Democratic leaders were ''totally thunderstruck,'' said one senator, and it was not immediately known what they would do in the new political situation. But it appeared highly likely that the President's action had scuttled any chance of alterations in either the income tax or the capital gains rates and had made bipartisan cooperation considerably more difficult.
 
Tax Proposal Was Planned
Mr. Bush, who promised ''no new taxes'' in his 1988 election campaign and stuck to it for his first year and a half in office, retreated on excise and other taxes in negotiations this summer but until this morning had clung, at least in public statements, to his refusal to alter income tax rates.
Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, had been ready to propose on Wednesday a deal of the kind Mr. Bush outlined, members of his staff said.
In an interview this evening Mr. Bentsen said he was astounded by Mr. Bush's apparent change of heart. ''I think this is unprecedented,'' he said. ''This morning he says said he'll consider the trade and this afternoon we have this statement that there's no way they'll do it. I wonder what his position will be tomorrow morning.''
Mr. Bentsen said the President's reversal severely complicated efforts to complete a deficit-reduction package and to get it through his committee. His panel had planned to begin deliberations Wednesday on specific deficit-reduction proposals, but Mr. Bentsen said tonight he wanted to ''sleep on it'' before determining how to proceed.
''It looks as if they are determined to protect those making over $200,000 from having any increase in their taxes,'' he said.
Senate aides said he had planned to call for a rise in bracket rates for the richest Americans to 33 percent from 28 percent, smoothing out a so-called bubble in the tax system that since 1986 has resulted in richer Americans' paying a lower rate on the top portion of their income than did less affluent Americans.
 
Changes in Other Rates
Senator Bentsen had also planned to recommend lowering the capital gains rate to a maximum of 23 percent from the current 28 percent. And he had planned to raise the alternative minimum tax on all income, regardless of deductions, to 25 percent from today's 21 percent. This measure would also hit the very rich, who have so many deductions and exemptions and exclusions that their normal tax liability falls below those levels.
How all this would redistribute the tax burden among various income groups is not clear, though Senator Bentsen said today that his aim was to make the system more progressive.
Mr. Bentsen had also proposed softening elements of the deficit reduction package that the House rejected last week. These included scaling down a proposed increase in the gasoline tax, eliminating a tax on home heating oil and reducing cuts in Medicare.
Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican leader, was reported to have advised Mr. Bentsen to put aside the capital gains and income tax issues and move ahead on the larger question of finding enough new revenue and cuts in spending to meet the requirements of the new budget resolution.
Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the Democratic chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, had planned to make comprehensive proposals of his own Wednesday. But it was not clear whether he would go along with a tradeoff between capital gains and higher income taxes on the wealthy. His committee was meeting late this evening to discuss a tax package.
Even before Mr. Bush's switch today, it was by no means certain that Congress would approve what the President, Mr. Bentsen and Mr. Rostenkowski seemed to be focusing on. With opposition to new taxes strong among voters, with elections looming and with White House tactics misfiring, a painstakingly negotiated budget package failed last week to muster a majority among either Republicans or Democrats in the House.
 
Out of Touch
Some Republicans in the House said today that they still believed the President was out of touch with the sentiment of rank-and-file lawmakers.
After a holiday weekend marked by modest but highly visible reductions in Government operations, Congress early today passed a budget resolution similar to the one defeated earlier, but with deficit-reduction details left to committees like Mr. Bentsen's and Mr. Rostenkowski's. It also approved a resolution to keep Government spending at last year's levels until Oct. 19, a week from Friday.
Mr. Bush signed that resolution at 7 o'clock this morning after intense arguments within his staff about whether he should veto it to keep the heat on Congress. He had vetoed a similar measure last Sunday, which was unaccompanied by a budget package.
The revised budget resolution, incorporating a deficit-reduction plan, cleared the House on Monday, 250 to 164, and the Senate early this morning, 66 to 33.
There is no certainty that the new deadline will be met; a further delay until Oct. 21, a Sunday, is certainly possible, politicians of both parties said, and a postponement until after Election Day, Nov. 6, is conceivable.
The election is a major complicating factor in getting approval for any budget package. Every one of the dozen or so Republican and Democratic Senators facing close elections this fall, from liberal Democrats like Paul Simon of Illinois to conservative Republicans like Jesse Helms of North Carolina, voted against the resolution approved this morning. So did Senator J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, a Democrat who was re-elected last weekend.
 
Bentsen's Proposals
Mr. Bentsen's proposal includes a nine-cent-a-gallon gasoline tax, and less onerous cuts in the Medicare program than had been contempltated under a budget compromise rejected by the House last week. His plan would also scrap proposals to limit income tax deductions for those who earn more than $100,000 a year and to impose a new two-cent-a-gallon tax on refined petroleum products.
But Mr. Bentsen retained some of the other tax increases suggested by the Administration officials and top Congressional leaders who negotiated the ill-fated compromise that failed late last week. These include a 10 percent luxury tax on expensive cars, boats, furs and jewelry; increases in excise taxes on cigarettes, beer, wine and spirits and a requirement that state and local government employees pay Social Security taxes.
Hoping to meet objections by Republicans as well as Democrats to deep cuts in the Medicare program, Mr. Bentsen's recommendation would hold increases in monthly premiums and deductibles to a much smaller amount than had been outlined in the agreement reached by White House and Congressional negotiators, and would not require as large an increase in the portion of doctor payments beneficiaries are required to pay out of their own pockets.
 
Massaging the Opposition
At his news conference, the President took an emollient approach toward the Democrats, offering to help them in what he conceded was the difficult task of putting together a package that will achieve $500 billion in deficit reduction over five years while still winning his backing and that of both houses of Congress.
It was a recognition that what the elite group of private negotiators from Congress and the White House failed to accomplish in four months must now be achieved in 10 days, mostly in public.
''The action is in the Congress, but we'll work with them,'' the President said, refraining for the moment from further finger pointing. ''I will do everything in my power to encourage Congress as it struggles to bring forth the most comprehensive and significant deficit-cutting plan ever.''
He defended his two main budget negotiators, John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, and Richard G. Darman, the budget director, who antagonized Republicans as well as Democrats on Capitol Hill with what many lawmakers considered outrageously heavy handed tactics.
''When passions get high, there's bound to be a little broken china,'' Mr. Bush said. ''They did an outstanding job.'' But White House officials said that Mr. Sununu and Mr. Darman would probably play only secondary roles in the 10 days of bargaining and maneuvering that now lie ahead.
Asked about raising income tax rates for the wealthiest taxpayers, the President replied in language that seemed unequivocal: ''That's on the table. That's been talked about. And if it's proper, if it can be worked in proper balance between the capital gains rate and income tax changes, fine.''
 
Bush Sees No Dents
Mr. Bush was unwilling to accept the contention that his prestige and power have been dented by the budget battle, inisisting that ''the jury's still out.''
Still, his ratings in public opinion surveys have slipped back to where they stood before Iraq invaded Kuwait; his leadership capacities are being questioned after his failure to convince even the usually docile House Republicans to back him on the original budget package, and he has abandoned his no-new-taxes pledge.
''I can understand the frustration,'' Mr. Bush said about the sour mood of the American public. ''I feel it myself at times.''
The President may have suffered little longterm damage so far, as his aides argue, and he will not face re-election for many more months. But he does face major political trouble on three fronts - the Middle East, the budget and the faltering economy - with all three full of uncertainties.
Although he expressed, as usual, a reluctance to analyze his emotions -he said he did not want ''to get stretched out on the couch too far'' - Mr. Bush conceded that he took more satisfaction from coping with international problems like the Persian Gulf crisis than from dealing with difficulties at home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BRADY, NICHOLAS (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



305 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11

 
The U.S. asked for U.N. approval of a resolution condemning Israel for excessive use of force in killing at least 19 Palestinians on Monday. Washington was apparently trying to maintain the support of Arab countries opposed to Iraq. Page A1

 
Palestinians mounted protests in East Jerusalem, Israeli Arabs rioted in several towns inside Israel and Israeli leaders held themselves blameless a day after the violence in the Old City. A10

 
Bush assails Israel for lack of ''restraint'' A10

 
Iraqi President renews threat to attack Israel A11

 
Saudis say Jerusalem killings could hurt anti-Iraq alliance A11

 
Army limits night maneuvers to prevent accidents in Gulf A11

 
Oil prices soared to record levels, closing for the first time above $40 a barrel on renewed fears of war in the Middle East. A1 
 
 
Dow drops by 78.22
 D1

 
A debate over Kuwait's future has broken out among prominent Kuwaiti exiles. The issue concerns the need for a more democratic form of government. A1

 
New evidence in the bombing of the Pan American jet in December 1988 indicates that Libyan intelligence agents may have assembled and planted the bomb that destroyed the plane, American experts involved in the inquiry said. A1

 
A major Japanese business figure, Hisashi Shinto, was convicted of accepting bribes in the first big court case to emerge from a scandal that rocked Japan's political world. D1

 
The Philippine political scene is a little bit like California's seismic situation: There are regular tremors, and each rumbling provokes new doubts about if and when ''the big one'' will strike. A7

 
Hijacking sets off shake-up in China A3

 
The Benazir Bhutto hearings will not be postponed until after national elections on Oct. 24. The former Prime Minister, accused of corruption, had requested a delay so that she could concentrate on her political campaign. A3

 
Small traders give Polish economy a facelift A5

 
Naples Journal: Innocents die in organized crime killings A4

 
Guatemala arrests five in killing of an American A9

 
Rwandans report gains on rebel invaders A6

 
National A12-21

 
President Bush reversed himself on a tax issue, first saying that he might agree to an increase in income tax rates for wealthy Americans as part of a budget pact, then later abandoning that position under pressure from Republican senators. A1

 
New analysis: The President's way of making decisions, behind closed doors with a chosen few advisers, may have worked in matters of foreign policy, but has caused difficulties on the domestic side. A19

 
A southwest Texas medical center, the only hospital within a 16,000-square-mile area, is periously near closing because of debt. Officials there anxiously await the final budget pact. A20

 
Moynihan revives call to cut deductions for social security A20

 
American criminal justice is going through a transformation as the nation's police, prosecutors, wardens and researchers introduce an array of new strategies for dealing with the growth of violent crime. A16

 
Women do not belong in the United States Naval Academy, believe a ''considerable segment'' of midshipmen, faculty and staff there, an internal Academy review found. A12

 
Jurors in the Mapplethorpe trial had regretted that the prosecution had not given them more evidence to go on, two jurors said in telephone interviews. A12

 
Justice David H. Souter assumed his seat on the Supreme Court after taking the oath of office in a courtroom filled with New Hampshire friends and Washington dignitaries. A14

 
Court to study rules that help hospital unions A14

 
Council in Washington limits Barry's powers A21

 
F.B.I. man guilty of Soviet spying A21

 
Nebraska Governor curbs campaign after threat A21

 
Chrysler's message to union: pact like G.M.'s is too costly A13

 
After near perfect flight, shuttle is readied for return A21

 
San Francisco Journal: License plate debate - slurs or pride A12

 
Regional B1-4

 
New York City's credit rating on its warned the bonds may fall, warned the Standard & Poor's Corporaton, which said the city must revise its financial plan ''in line with the realities'' of a slipping economy. A1

 
The wage increase for teachers, gained in recent contract negotiations with the Dinkins administration, came over the fierce objections of top city budget officials, people who took part in the talks say. B1

 
Stein asks Dinkins to rescind teachers' accord B3

 
More New York City court sections will be created to speed the handling of gun-possession, murder and other violent-crime cases, the state's top court officials said. B1
 
Ten people were shot in the Bronx by a man who fired a gun during a dispute. None of the injuries were believed to be life-threatening. B1

 
Bensonhurst defendant testifies
 B3

 
Many immigrant Jewish children, bred in the atheistic culture of the Soviet Union, are being transformed by American yeshivas and Hebrew schools into observant Jews, and more than a few parents have been carried along in the process. B1

 
Welfare agency faulted for closing cases B3

 
His goals met, Parking Bureau chief resigns B2

 
Rivals of Weicker ask: Could he govern Connecticut alone? B2

 
Judge halting second inquiry in Teaneck case B2

 
Business Digest D1

 
Education Pages B6-7

 
''Afrocentric'' educational programs seek to inspire black students by teaching them more about their own ancestors. The programs are growing, while also stirring debate about their intentions and methods. A1

 
About Education B6

 
Educators fear taxpayers' revolt could scuttle finance law B7

 
The Living Section

 
Food
 
Frozen pizzas to feed a nation of homebodies C1

 
Performance art, with food as star C1

 
Living
 
Dazzled and dazed, bead fans gather C1

 
Dressing a la Milan: crotch-high hems C7

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Bernstein retires from stage C15

 
Analyzing Michelangelo C15

 
Films in which style is all C15

 
Endowment dispute moves into the House C17

 
Music: The Met's ''Boris Godunov'' C19

 
Word and Image: Second volume of a Dreiser biography C20

 
Sports

 
Baseball: A's go up by 3-0 B9

 
Oakland uses the steal B9

 
Reds take 3-1 lead B9

 
Bonds doesn't look like Bonds
 B10

 
Randolph comes through
 B11

 
Column: Anderson on Clemens
 B9

 
Football: Giants back to business B10

 
Hockey: Devils top North Stars
 B10

 
Sports Business: Japanese bullish on U.S. sports B9

 
Tennis: Davis Cup details almost set B10

 
Obituaries B24

 
John Stewart Bell, a physicist
 
Arthur H. Schwartz, a lawyer
 
Alexis B. Tatistcheff, an economist and language expert
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A22

 
New York's fears won't wait
 
Red scares and false alarms
 
No reprieve for honorariums
 
Kenya undermined, at the top
 
Letters A22

 
Flora Lewis: Ms. Doi's advantage A23

 
Kevin Phillips: Suddenly, Bush has reason to fear '92 A23

 
Benjamin DeMott: The myth of classlessness A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); KUWAIT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); RWANDA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); POLAND (75%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); HIJACKING (75%); POLITICS (75%); EVIDENCE (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); RIOTS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); BRIBERY (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); SCANDALS (64%); TAX INCREASES (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%); 



306 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: AQUINO UNTOPPLED, AT LEAST FOR NOW

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANILA, Oct. 8

 BODY:
The political scene in the Philippines is a little bit like California's seismic situation: there are regular tremors, and each rumbling provokes new doubts about if and when ''the big one'' will strike.
President Corazon C. Aquino has quelled an army mutiny in the southern island of Mindanao, the seventh uprising in the last four years. But although she claimed victory, the uprising underscores the disaffection and instability that appear to have risen steadily since she came to power in the revolution that ended the rule of President Ferdinand E. Marcos in 1986.
''Every time there is a coup attempt, eventually people get to asking, why is there a coup attempt in the first place?'' said Felipe B. Miranda, professor of political science at the University of the Philippines. ''This leads to the question: Isn't it the weakness of Government that eventually invites the coup attempt?'' 
 
Poll Shows Decline in Popularity
A survey conducted in late August by Professor Miranda found public opinion evenly divided over President Aquino, with 30 percent satisfied with her performance in office and 30 percent not. The rest declined to answer or did not have an opinion. It was a drop from a popularity of about 70 percent in the beginning of her term.
In many ways, Mrs. Aquino is bearing the brunt of the frustration of a nation struggling to establish democracy after about 15 years of military and dictatorial rule. The repeated uprisings raise further questions not only about the stability of the Government but also about the ability of the nation's democracy to survive until the next elections, which are scheduled for 1992. Mrs. Aquino has said she will not run. Beyond domestic political troubles, the Government faces a floundering economy with debt service and repayments that soak up about 40 percent of the national budget.
More recently, the country has been hobbled by a devastating earthquake, and soaring oil prices and the problems of thousands of Filipino workers who have been displaced in the Middle East have caught the country at one of its more vulnerable moments.
 
Problems Are Aired Now
Some Filipinos say today's problems seem particularly formidable because in the past, many comparable difficulties were covered up and the people were not aware of them.
''Yes, she has problems, but all these problems are coming out because of our democratic system,'' said Lieut. Gen. Eduardo R. Ermita, Undersecretary of National Defense. ''There was no democratic system under Marcos. The problems were there, but the problems weren't coming out.''
Some people say Mrs. Aquino rose to power in 1986 because she had become a powerful symbol by capturing public sympathy after her husband, the opposition leader Benigno S. Aquino, was slain returning to the Philippines in 1983.
In contrast with Mr. Marcos, she was a poignant figure of decency. But they add that while people still respect her decency and her suffering, they are grumbling for signs of administrative ability that she never particularly cultivated as the wife of a dissident. [In another threat to the Government, Reuters reported, at least 28 people were killed on Tuesday when Communist guerrillas of the New People's Army battled the army for eight hours on the island of Samar, 280 miles southeast of Manila.] While it is not clear whether the recent military mutiny was intended to overthrow the Government, Mrs. Aquino's ability to crush it as she did six efforts to unseat her may have improved her image for now.
Since a coup attempt last December, the most damaging to her Government, Mrs. Aquino has taken steps to consolidate loyalty and improve management within the military. The Government recently ended an investigation into that uprising, and it appears that Mrs. Aquino is becoming more adept at coup-crisis management. Was It a Coup Attempt? Some say the rebellion in Mindanao was far from a coup attempt, and one professor, Alexander Magno, calls it a ''spectacular local crime.'' Others say the surrender of the leader, Col. Alexander Noble, and the lack of coordination with other rebel leaders suggest that the underground network may not be as strong as some people feared.
Army officials say military rebels have been behind a number of bombings and bank robberies in the recent months, all of which have threatened the Government's stability.
Some political and business leaders say that while Mrs. Aquino may survive these uprisings and signs of instability, they point to real problems that she should address.
''How many times do we have to give this warning before President Aquino listens?'' Senator Ernesto Maceda, the chairman of the Senate Defense Committee, said in a statement. ''The Aquino Government must for once meaningfully and substantially respond to the problems of our people.''
On Friday, Mrs. Aquino announced an economic plan intended to stimulate growth. So far it has not ignited much optimism. Some people suggest the Philippines faces a vicious circle: while economic difficulties compound political instability, each sign of instability also disrupts the confidence of foreign and domestic investors and undermines economic prospects.
Some Filipino business executives also say weak leadership is particularly worrisome here because it invites assaults on the political system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT COUPS (92%); POLITICS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); BUDGETS (62%); DISPLACED PERSONS (61%); 

PERSON: AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES); WUDUNN, SHERYL BENIGNO AQUINO III (79%); 



307 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler's Message to Union: Pact Like G.M.'s Is Too Costly

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Lee A. Iacocca, chairman of the Chrysler Corporation, plans to tell the United Automobile Workers union on Thursday that the company cannot afford a labor agreement like those negotiated with the General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company.
The union leadership has so far rejected the idea of granting Chrysler, the country's third-largest auto maker, less-expensive contract provisions for its 78,000 blue-collar workers than those at Ford or G.M. But it is not clear how forcefully Chrysler bargainers will press the case or whether the company would risk a strike to reduce its labor costs, which are already the highest in the industry.
Employers often plead poverty during collective bargaining, but Chrysler has an especially difficult task since it has been trying to convince customers, investors and bankers that it is financially sound despite recent weak earnings and sales. The truth, analysts say, is in between. 
 
Missing a Financial Cushion
''Chrysler's balance sheet isn't in bad shape now,'' said Harvey Heinbach, automotive analyst for Merrill Lynch in New York, ''but auto makers are looking at significant cash outflows in the event of a recession. Ford and G.M. have a cushion and are in much better shape to weather that kind of an economy than Chrysler.''
Analysts estimate that Chrysler will post a third-quarter loss of $200 million to $250 million before the month's end. At the same time, the company has been saying it has ''plenty of money'' to weather hard times until an important new mid-size car is introduced in 1992.
Scott Merlis, the automotive analyst for Morgan Stanley & Company in New York, estimates that Chrysler's current labor costs of $32 an hour are as much as $2.50 higher than those of the other domestic auto makers. The most important reason is that Chrysler has a higher proportion of retired workers than its competitors, which means higher outlays for pensions.
 
New Mood in the Union
The union gave Mr. Iacocca concessions on salaries and holidays in the early 1980's when Chrysler was close to bankruptcy, but its mood has changed. Stan Marshall, U.A.W. vice president, was quoted today in local newspapers as calling Mr. Iacocca's expected assessment of Chrysler's financial condition ''garbage.''
''It will fall on deaf ears,'' Mr. Marshall was quoted as saying.
Privately union officials acknowledge that Chrysler is in a weakened state. But they are also angry about recent bonuses granted to retain executives and about Mr. Iacocca's own multimillion-dollar compensation package.
Union officials also criticize some acquisitions and other strategic moves that ''aren't consistent with crying poverty,'' said a union official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
''Why is it that the workers always have to make the sacrifices?'' the official said.
The union's customary bargaining stance has been to choose one auto maker as a target, negotiate a contract with it and use that contract as a pattern for those with all auto makers. This strategy is meant to prevent any domestic auto maker from gaining a competitive advantage through tough bargaining on wages and benefits.
 
Little Rancor in Bargaining
In recent years the union has been representing fewer domestic auto workers, as the three American car makers have closed plants and Japanese auto makers have opened plants in this country, some of which are non-union and have lower labor costs.
G.M.'s new contract, which has been ratified, and Ford's contract, which is up for a ratification vote in the next week or so, include provisions that could prove expensive. One provision limits to 36 weeks the amount of time that any worker may be laid off; another mandates a stiff financial penalty for paying overtime instead of hiring new workers. Executives at G.M. and Ford have also agreed to a 3 percent raise in the first year of the three-year contract and 3 percent bonuses in each of the two remaining years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION; 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES LABOR UNIONS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P; IACOCCA, LEE A LEE A IACOCCA (77%); 



308 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3739 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET AGREEMENT;
Excerpts From the Bush News Conference on the Budget and the Mideast

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a transcript of President Bush's news conference today, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a transcription company:
 
OPENING STATEMENT
Let me just go with an opening statement, and then I'll be glad to respond to questions.
First, on the budget, the committees of Congress now take up the arduous task of implementing the budget resolution that they just passed. We've been pulling and tugging at this framework agreement for nearly five months, and it's been difficult because that whole underlying problem is difficult. And we're trying to reduce the Federal deficit by $500 billion over the next five years - $40 billion of it in the first year. And this would be the largest such cut in history. 
So while it's easy to get caught up in the maneuvers and the countermaneuvers of the legislative process, I want to assure the American people this morning that I will do everything in my power to encourage Congress as it struggles to bring forth the most comprehensive and significant deficit-cutting plan ever.
This morning I outlined several conditions for a budget reconciliation bill. As the committees of Congress begin to fill in the blanks in determining how we raise the revenues and cut the spending, we must be mindful not to let the hard-won goals of the budget resolution dissipate or lose direction.
The budget reconciliation bill, due on Oct. 12, must measure up to the savings Congress has outlined, without smoke and mirrors, with growth-oriented tax incentives, with process reform, with enforceability, with bipartisan support, and with passages of both houses - by both houses of Congress by Oct. 19.
These are the objectives that we fought for since the beginning of the long budget struggle, but they're worthy of our effort. In any undertaking of this size, there is bound to be anguish, and I want to recognize the valiant Federal work force that had to suffer through some uncertainty of this period.
On Saturday morning I said we cannot have business as usual. But the Congress has finally acted and we are back on course and there can be no letup in our attention to detail and our commitment to purpose. We must fulfill the requirements of the budget resolution.
Now, I'd be glad to take some questions.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Confidence on Governing
Q. . . . A week ago you asked Americans to help get a budget passed and they gave you the back of the hand. Then, despite a Government shutdown, Congress still hasn't been able to produce a budget. How can Americans fail to have anything except grave questions about the - your ability and that of Congress to govern?
A. Well, I think there probably are some questions. I don't feel the American people gave the back of the hand to the budget agreement. If you look at the surveys that were carried in the magazines and all of this, they show that, I think, more people wanted the agreement than not. So we've just got to do a better job of getting it through.
But listen, I can understand the frustration. I feel it myself at times. And when you have a Government with one party controlling the Congress, where the action is and where the action will remain now for a while, and then you have a President of a different party, nobody thought it would be easy, and it isn't.
So I think there is some frustration, but I notice that there was strong support for the package. The problem was that you ask in individual categories of the package, 'Oh, no, we don't want this, we don't want that, we don't . . .' - you know, a lot of special interests. But people seem to want the deal.
I think the deal, though not keeping me happy in every way, was a good one and I was proud to join with the Republican and Democratic leaders in supporting that original budget agreement. Now we've got some of the main ingredients of it, broad instruction to these committees that were contained within the original agreement, and let's see if the Congress can get moving and come up with a deal that I can accept. And we'll be working with them. We're not - I'm not up here to assign blame. Yeah, Helen?
 
High Tax Rate for Wealthy
Q. Mr. President, no matter what you say, there was a lot of feeling in the country that the package was not fair. Are you willing to accept a higher tax rate for the wealthy, perhaps in exchange for a capital gains cut, but even so, a higher tax rate?
A. I haven't seen great sentiment for raising people's income tax rates, and I'm not for that. Now, during the budget process - and this was little noted - there was discussion about getting capital gains for straightening out the bubble, which means raising some rates. We were quite open-minded; there was some negotiation.
So I'm not - let me say this, I - that's on the table; that's been talked about. And if it's proper, if it can be worked in proper balance between the capital gains rate and income tax changes, fine. But I don't think it's fruitful here to negotiate the details, or try to.
What we've got to do is get up now with -particularly Ways and Means and Finance -Danny Rostenkowski, Lloyd Bentsen, Bill Archer and Bob Packwood - and discuss with them quietly what we can accept. I want them to know it. But I don't think I can stand here and kind of negotiate or mandate exactly what will happen.
 
Hopes for New Agreement
Q. Mr. President, House Republicans, by the end of last week, were being accused of behaving like Democrats. There seemed to be fairly deep divisions within their ranks. You didn't carry - you and the leaders did not carry a majority of House Republicans on the budget deal. What hope do you now have, and what reason do you have for holding that hope that you can do that the next time on a program that will, in effect, be written by the Democratic Party?
A. Well, I see that - Brit, you only stated -if I could - I don't want to be argumentative, but the Democrats didn't have their troops behind them. They didn't have what they needed to get it through. So it isn't just the Republicans. I think the hope is that people see more clearly now that it isn't easy, and as people go to go with their own alternatives now, they find that they can't get the support. So we may - so I think what we'll end up doing is staying very close to the agreement that I reached with the Republican and Democratic leaders.
The last couple of few days have been like a catharsis. There's been a clearing of the air. People out - here's what I'd do; here's what I'd like to do, and then they find, well, there's no votes to do exactly what they'd like to do. So I think we just have to work the process now and hope that the Congress will come up with a reasonable deal. The action is in the Congress, I keep pointing out, but we'll work with them. Yes?
 
Bitterness Among Republicans
Q. There seemed to be considerable bitter feeling among Republicans towards some members of your team, who felt they had been dealt with in a ham-handed or high-handed way. Has anything been done to patch this up, sir, and have you talked to members about that?
A. Well, I've talked to the leaders, our leaders, Dole and Michel and others, Bill Archer yesterday, over the weekend, Al Simpson and others. But, you know, anytime you have a difficult road like this, there's bound to be griping about it. I have total confidence in our team. I think they did a first-class job, and I don't think we would have ever gotten the agreement out if they hadn't done a first-class job.
So I think that - but also you need a little time to calm things down, cool things off, and let's try to go forward. I think it's my responsibility to say, 'Look, it's not easy; all of us have had to compromise; now let's move the country forward to what really everybody wants, and that is getting these deficits under control.' Yeah?
Q. Mr. President, getting back to the lack of support from Republicans, tomorrow you're going to be campaigning in North Carolina for Senator Jesse Helms, who was one of your opponents on the budget. What is your message to the voters? Vote blindly Republican or vote for legislators who support your policies?
A. If we had more people on fiscal policy like Jesse Helms, and by that I mean control of the Senate, we wouldn't be in this mess. People would have been doing it more the way I want it done. So I can't confine my support to somebody who agrees with me on a deficit deal today or some bill tomorrow. We're talking about the broad approach to saving money. And I think Senator Helms has been very good about trying to contain the growth of Federal spending.
Q. Well if there's no threat of retribution, what is to keep your fellow Republicans on the Hill from defying you with impunity on other issues?
A. Reason.
 
Popularity and Winning Support
Q. Mr. President, going back to Terry's question, you've had unprecedentedly high levels of popularity for a very long period of time. My question is: What do you suppose, sir, that popularity is good for if you can't use it to persuade the American people on an issue you, yourself, described as one that was critical to the country?
A. Well, I'm not - you know - well, I've been the one around here that - you always ask me on these polls, up or down, what do I think? Every Monday there's some new poll by some new combination of a magazine and a television studio. And every week somebody wants me to comment on these, and I've been rather consistent in saying, 'Look, I don't believe in these polls.'
But what it says is we're not doing too bad; like to be doing better. And I think there's pretty strong support. But I guess I learned that I can't do it exactly my way when we get down on something like the deficit. I do think internationally the support is still very, ver a strong.
So when you get into somebody's pocketbook or you get - worrying about a tax or a spending cut that affects someone, I've learned that it's just not going to be done the way I want it, especially if you don't control the Senate or you don't control the House. So I can't worry too much about it. I just have to try to get this process moved forward, and that's what we've done. I've had to compromise, but I think it will come it out all right. Yeah?
 
Price of Supply-Side Economics
Q. If I might - I wonder if you think, though, that you're paying the price now in asking the American people to sacrifice, and having them rebuff it the way it happened -paying the price for all these years in the Reagan-Bush Administration that you sold supply-side economics?
A. No, I don't think so. I think that when you see Democratic votes against the leadership, we're talking about something a little shorter-term here. I think you're looking at something that, when people have analyzed a package, and don't like parts of it, because they're still saying, Hey, we like - we want you to vote for the overall package. So the problem comes from some specific part of the package. That's the way I analyze it. Yeah, John?
 
Domestic Test of Presidency
Q. So you say you've learned that you just can't have things the way you want it on the budget. But earlier this year, you raised the stakes when you said the budget crisis would be the biggest test domestically of your Presidency. So far, have you failed the test, given that fiasco of the --
A. Give me a couple weeks here. I want to see if we can't get this deal through.
Q. Well, do you think --
A. I thought we did pretty well when we got an agreement with the Republican leadership and the House leadership - Democrat and Republican. To me, that's getting something done. Now we couldn't get it through the Congress yet, so we'll try again. So I think the jury's still out on that, John.
Q. Do you suddenly feel politically a bit more vulnerable now? The Democrats smell blood. They're looking to '92 now. George Bush has slipped. What do you think?
A. Well, without referring to the polls, that I don't like to refer to, have them take a look.
 
Problem With No-Tax Pledge
Q. Mr. President, during the campaign, when you took the position that you absolutely, positively would not raise taxes under any circumstance, and then a lot of your fellow Republicans, as you know, were encouraged to follow suit by taking this anti-tax pledge, do you think that that now is part of the reason --
A. Yes.
Q. -- that you're having so much trouble?
A. I think that makes it more difficult for people.
Q. Do you regret that you took that position?
A. No, because what I do is take a look at -at the situation at the time, see the changed economics, and say I've got to - got to, you know, go forward here.
 
Reaction to Incident in Israel
Q. Mr. President, yesterday Israeli forces used live ammunition to put down a demonstration in Israel, killing 19 Palestinians. Today, Saddam Hussein is using that incident in an attempt to rally Arab support against Israel and especially against the United States in the region. Do you think this incident could create a crack in the alliance against Iraq? And what's your reaction to the incident?
A. Well, I don't think it could do that, but look, let me just express my strong feelings about this. First my sorrow at this tragedy. It is particularly saddening, given the sanctity of the holy places and observances there, that violence shattered all of this.
And I want to echo what Jim Baker said earlier, that Israeli security forces need to be better prepared for such situations, need to act with greater restraint, particularly when it comes to the use of deadly force. And at this point what is needed most of all is calm on all sides.
Let me - I don't think I need to say this -but let me just state that we want to see the longstanding policy of maintaining open access to the holy places preserved, tempered only by mutual respect for people of other faiths. And so I am very, very saddened by this needless loss of life, and I would call on all for restraint. The action will shift to the United Nations now.
To your other part of the question, Jim, there's no relationship here. Saddam Hussein is trying to, from the very beginning, justify the illegal invasion of Kuwait by trying to tie it into the Palestine question. And that is not working. The Arab world is united - almost united - - against him.
And I don't think if he tries now to use this unfortunate incident to link the two questions, I don't think that will be successful. And certainly, I will be doing what I can to see that it is not successful.
Having said that, I hope nobody questions our interest in seeing a solution to the Palestine question, to the implementation of the Security Council resolutions. And that's what Jim Baker has been working so hard on for such a long time.
But let's separate out this violence and say, we deplore it, and it must not happen, and regret it - the loss of life for everybody.
Q. Also - a follow, please. Saddam Hussein also indicated today that the Iraqis have a new sort of missile that can reach into Israel and reach the U.S. troops. And he's threatening to use that force.
A. I noticed that and I notice he's getting a little more bellicose. Once in a while you see a conciliatory statement, and then you hear a lot of heightened rhetoric about what he is going to do and what he's not going to do.
Now I'm satisfied that we can defend our interests now. And I am satisfied that - that these threats of his are counterproductive in terms of solving anypeaceful resolution of the question. They don't help a thing, they just polarize.
So, you don't want to overreact to it. I keep reading statements like this, ever since this illegal annexation, illegal aggression took place. . . . We watch it very carefully, and it's pretty hard to detect a pattern.
Now, there's a theme, and that is trying to link the Palestine question into his - kind of giving justification for what he did against Kuwait, and yet the logic falls totally flat. Yes, Frank?
Q. Mr. President, on that subject, you said the action now shifts on this one to the United Nations. Having just been to the United Nations and talked about its increased relevance and role, how far are you prepared to go as far as the United States is concerned in meeting some of the Arab efforts to partially condemn Israel's action and pass a resolution that --
A. Well, I think it all depends what the resolution is, and so that's just starting up there now and we're not sure exactly what direction it all will take. So I'd want to stop short of saying exactly what I could - you know, what the U.S. Government could support or what it couldn't support.
 
Concern on Dismantling Kuwait
Q. If I may, sir, on a related topic, when the Emir of Kuwait was here, you expressed grave concern about the dismantling of Kuwait.
A. Yes, I did.
Q. Your advisers said that that could affect the timetable for permitting sanctions to work. What is your feeling on that now? Is the dismantling --
A. I thought General Scowcroft put it very well after the Emir left here. And I am very much concerned, not just about this physical dismantling, but of the brutality that has now been written on by Amnesty International confirming some of the tales told us by the Emir, of brutality and - - oh, it's just unbelieveable, some of the things at least he reflected. I mean, people on a dialysis machine cut off, the machine sent to Baghdad; people in - babies in incubators heaved out of the incubators and the incubators themselves sent to Baghdad.
Now, I don't know how many of these tales can be authenticated, but I do know that when the Emir was here he was speaking from the heart. And after that came the Amnesty International, who were debriefing many of the people at the border. And it's sickening.
And so I - if your question was how long, I can't give you an answer in days or months, but it is a matter that - it's a new equation in the last three weeks, the systematic dismantling of Kuwait that concerns us enormously. And I think the more people understand it, the more Saddam Hussein will be condemned.
But I have to stop short of telling you what that - where that leads me to, in terms of recommending action by the allied forces there.
Q. It does sound like your patience is wearing thin on the sanctions.
A. It's wearing very thin on that account, yes.
 
Foreign and Domestic Disparity
Q. Mr. President, a couple of minutes ago, you said that public opinion seemed to support your handling of foreign affairs better than domestic affairs. Why do you think that you're so much more comfortable with and better at foreign matters than domestic? To some people, it seems like almost two Presidents.
A. Well, I've read that sophisticated analysis, and I'm troubled, because I don't the - I don't really know the answer to it. Perhaps it has to do with the fact that in one, I think the Vandenburg theory applies. People really basically want to support the President on foreign affairs, and partisanshp does, in a sense, stop at the water's edge. Whereas on domestic policy, here I am with Democratic majorities in the Senate and Democratic majorities in the House, having to try to persuade them to do what I think is best. And it's complicated.
I mean, I think that's part of it, and - well, I don't want to get stretched out on the couch too far in terms of analysis now - but, you know, when you get a problem with the complexities that one - that the Middle East has now, and the Gulf has now, I enjoy trying to keep this - put the coalition together and keep it together and work towards what I think is a proper end, seeing that this aggression doesn't succeed.
Q. It doesn't sound like you have as much fun as it as you do with the other.
A. That's about right, yeah.
 
Erosion of Bush Leadership
Q. Mr. President, you pulled out all the stops on this budget deal, and it just flopped. Are you concerned, sir, that your leadership on other domestic issues now will be eroded since you didn't carry even half your own party in the House? You talk about clean air, you talk about crime. Are you worried that you're just going to - the honeymoon is entirely over?
A. No, because I want to talk to Speaker Foley about this, and Leader Mitchell, because they pulled out all the stops and they didn't get the votes they needed. And so I don't think they feel that they can't conduct their business in the House or in the Senate, and certainly I don't feel that I can't conduct my business here. So I don't think there is erosion. In fact, you saw the House side come together in terms of a veto, - right quick [snapping fingers] - like that. And I think that - that's - you know - there's a certain maturity there, and we go on to the next event. . . . So I don't - no, I don't worry about that.
 
A. Absolutely not.
 
Possibility of Another Veto
Q. As you pointed out, the hard work, a lot of the hard work really remains ahead. Are you determined, as you were before, to keep Congress to the October 19th deadline? Will you veto another C.R. if they haven't finished the job by then?
A. You know, I think the fact that I vetoed that last one resulted in the new budget resolution, and a continuing resolution that we could accept because the budget resolution was - passed both houses. I'm absolutely convinced that if I had not vetoed that C.R., and that had not been sustained, you would have had - everybody'd have gone home, they'd all have marched in the parades for Columbus Day, holding the signs up, and started negotiating today. So once in a while the President, using the veto, can indeed move the process forward. And that's exactly what happened, and I would do it again if I felt that it would constructively lead to getting the problem solved.
Now, they asked me the other day not to veto this continuing resolution - the Democratic leaders did. And I said, Look, I hope you don't think I've been under any false colors with you people, because I've made very clear that I'm going to veto it. And they agreed with that, but they just thought I made the wrong call on it. I don't think so. I think I made the right call, and I think there's one of the times when a President's veto can discipline the process. And so I reserve the option to use whatever constitutional weapons I have to move things forward.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush deferring a reporter's question yesterday to John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, at a news conference. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TAXATION; INCOME TAX BUDGETS (93%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX LAW (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); LABOR FORCE (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SUNUNU, JOHN H GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN SUNUNU (56%); 



309 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET AGREEMENT;
Moynihan Revives Call to Cut Deductions for Social Security

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan tried today to inject new life into his proposal for a cut in Social Security payroll deductions, but for much of the day the New York Democrat was a solitary figure as he lectured a chamber devoid of fellow senators. Even Mr. Moynihan admitted that his cause seemed less than compelling to his colleagues.
''Is there a reason there are no senators on the floor wishing to speak?'' he said. ''Is it because we don't want to face the fact that a very small segment of the American people saw their incomes double in recent years, while most of Americans saw their incomes fall?'' 
Almost a year after unveiling his first proposal for huge cuts in Social Security deductions, Mr. Moynihan tried again to stir debate on a bill that would save wage earners an estimated $160 billion in the next six years.
But while privately he has broad support from his Senate colleagues, his proposal could not come at a worse time for them. Consumed with trying to put together a budget package, senators seemed today to want to avoid intense debate on legislation that they support in principle, but which would amount to a large-scale tax cut and a huge addition to the deficit.
 
The Basic Problem
''This is an uncomfortable position for a lot of people who want to provide tax relief to average people who deserve it, but don't want to have to raise other taxes to make up the difference,'' said Robert J. Shapiro, vice president of the Progressive Policy Institute, a research organization whose orientation is considered moderate to liberal.
Mr. Moynihan's proposal did not find its way into the budget agreement, but at times it played a key role in the debate. Democrats, in particular, had on their wish list proposals that would have placed much more of the burden for paying for Social Security on the wealthy.
While Mr. Moynihan wants the Senate to vote on his proposal, it is uncertain what will happen. In an effort to scuttle the bill, some Republicans plan to propose amendments, such as a capital gains tax cut, that would make it politically unacceptable.
Some Democrats feel that since the bill deals with taxes, it would not go beyond the Senate, since the House must initiate all tax bills. Thus, should the Senate should go ahead and approve the measure, it would amount to no more than a symbolic vote.
 
A Debate, at Least
Mr. Moynihan admitted tonight that he was not sure if he had the votes to pass the legislation.''
But whatever the outcome, the New York Senator is credited with drawing attention to the fact that of all Federal taxes, Social Security is perhaps the most regressive, placing a far greater tax burden on the middle- to low-income wage earners, than on the weathly. He created a major policy debate late last year by calling for a large cut in Social Security taxes and creating a pay-as-you-go system.
Last year, he proposed a cut over two years in Social Security taxes and chided policy makers for using the huge surpluses of the Social Security trust fund to pay general debts of the Federal Government and mask the size of the deficit.
While the budget agreement now going through Congress takes the annual surplus of the Social Security trust fund out of the deficit calculation, it is little more than form. The revenues are still used to pay for general obligations of the Treasury, a practice Mr. Moynihan decried today as ''embezzlement.''
''What we are doing is taking money out of wages that have not changed in 30 years to pay bondholders in Europe and Asia,'' he said. Mr. Moynihan produced charts and graphs that showed that when inflation is taken into account, the average weekly income for Americans had not changed over the past 30 years.
 
A Change in Approach
Unlike his original plan, which called for a large two-year cut in the rate of Social Security taxes, his latest proposal calls for phasing in the cuts over six years.
The Senator's proposal would begin cutting the Social Security payroll taxes beginning Jan. 1, and by the end of 1996 it would reduce the tax rate by almost 20 percent.
From a rate in 1990 of 6.2 percent, Social Security deductions would drop to 6.06 percent in 1991, to 5.9 percent in 1992, 5.7 percent in 1993, 5.5 percent in 1994, 5.3 percent in 1995 and 5.1 percent in 1996.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); NASH, NATHANIEL C DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (94%); 



310 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Kenya Undermined, at the Top

 BODY:
Kenya's highhanded President, Daniel arap Moi, appears to have learned little from the collapse of one-party absolutism in Eastern Europe or from the pro-democracy ferment elsewhere in Africa. After threatening to crush opponents ''like rats,'' he arrested two former Cabinet ministers who dared call for a multiparty system.
Though his slogan is ''Peace, Love and Unity,'' his critics die mysteriously or vanish into so-called psychiatric prisons. And now, in banning the Nairobi Law Monthly, he has made it a crime to advocate respect for the law. 
''They will all be picked up and kept aside to cool down,'' Mr. Moi says of his critics. ''If they want chaos, Moi is not a coward.'' The President's way with dissenters threatens the stability he seeks to preserve. Washington has warned him, perhaps too gently, that U.S. aid and favor are at risk if he ignores the connection between economic progress and respect for political and human rights.
When Mr. Moi assumed power in 1978, Kenya was deservedly praised for its stability, its outspoken press and independent judiciary. Since then he has imposed single-party rule, abolished secret voting and given himself the right to dismiss judges and order prolonged detention without trial. Press criticism has been stifled in a campaign that climaxed with the banning of the Law Monthly and the detention of its editor, Gitobu Imanyara, on charges of sedition.
Mr. Moi's pretext has been the need to keep order and curb tribal rivalries. It is true that Kenya has been spared the bloody turbulence and harsher tyranny of Ethiopia, Uganda and the Sudan. But by defining dissent as treason, and by eroding belief in the law, Mr. Moi imperils the tolerance that has made Kenya different. This is the tactful message of the U.S. Ambassador and conservative well-wisher, Smith Hempstone. If Mr. Moi persists in his course, the deluge is all too likely to follow. This is a danger that should concern Congress when it next considers U.S. aid to Kenya.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KENYA (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); UGANDA (79%); SUDAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENYA

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); TREASON (77%); ARRESTS (77%); PRISONS (75%); 

PERSON: MOI, DANIEL ARAP (PRES) DANIEL ARAP MOI (94%); DANIEL TOROTICH ARAP MOI (94%); 



311 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: No Taxes Needed in Savings and Loan Bailout;
Lending and Spending

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Inflation Isn't Our Biggest Problem'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 25), Roger C. Altman of the Blackstone Group argues that the Federal deficit must be reduced if a serious recession is to be avoided. ''Never before,'' he declares, ''have we headed into a recession with a budget deficit as high as 5 percent of gross national product.'' The assertion is incorrect.
The Federal budget deficit in 1944 was 27.3 percent of G.N.P.; in 1945, it was 21.9 percent of G.N.P. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States entered a recession in February 1945, reaching bottom in October. That the deficits were incurred during a war is unimportant in economic terms.
If Mr. Altman is looking for analogies, he might recall that the national debt was greatly reduced in the 1920's (from $24 billion to $16 billion). Yet this close attention to Government spending and economic principles did not head off the Great Depression.
Mr. Altman is correct on one major point, but he overlooks its implications. Corporate debt is indeed dangerously high, with companies using as much as 50 percent of current earnings to meet interest payments.
These problems are traceable to huge borrowing for unproductive mergers and buyouts that enrich manipulators, while hurting everyone else, and to the deregulation of interest rates on savings deposits, which has driven up the costs of borrowing (including Government borrowing), not to mention the costs of the savings and loan bailout.
Corporations are obviously borrowing and spending too much, while the Government is spending much too little.
 
FREDERICK C. THAYER
Los Angeles, Sept. 26, 1990
 The writer retired as a professor of the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (86%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); WRITERS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); DEREGULATION (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, ROGER C; THAYER, FREDERICK C (PROF) ROGER ALTMAN (90%); 



312 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: No Taxes Needed in Savings and Loan Bailout

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Who Should Pay for the S.& L. Bailout?'' by Joseph P. Kennedy 2d (Op-Ed, Sept. 21) offers a popular nostrum: a surtax on the rich; not one cent from the poor. This scheme is, unfortunately, flawed, reflecting a widespread misunderstanding of the economics of the savings and loan fiasco. Policy prescriptions such as Mr. Kennedy's, stemming from this misunderstanding, threaten serious damage to the economy. 
The issue is not that of achieving a more equitable tax system, making the rich pay their fare share. Some of the recommendations Mr. Kennedy makes, such as closing the capital gains tax loophole on death, do make good sense.
The basic point, though, is that no one should pay higher taxes now to finance the savings and loan bailout. Government generally should raise taxes to finance increased expenditures. If we are to spend $25 billion more a year in connection with military operations in and around the Persian Gulf, taxes may have to be raised for that. If the Government finds itself paying out more over the long run in benefit payments of one kind or another or in interest on its debt, it may be appropriate to raise taxes for that. But there is no reason to raise taxes to keep depositors from losing their money in savings and loan institutions and thus to maintain the money supply. And that is exactly what is involved in the bailout. Imagine that we just learned $100 billion of currency was being destroyed in a fire; would we tax the American people $100 billion to secure funds to reimburse the losers? Of course not! We would simply print new money to replace the old.
Would printing new money be inflationary? Again, of course not! We would not be adding to the money supply, but rather keeping the money supply constant, that is, preventing it from going down by as much currency as had been destroyed.
All this is not to say that there may not have been real losses as a result of bad loans, high living and outright fraud in the savings and loans. These losses were the houses, office buildings or consumption that might have been undertaken if the savings and loan financing had been directed elsewhere. By the way, it is, unfortunately, not quite clear that if bad investments had not been made in Houston, there would have been more good investments in New York and Chicago. We might just have had less total investment. But raising taxes now will do nothing to remedy all that. It will only slow the economy.
And particularly at this point, with most analysts seeing us already teetering on the brink of recession, any significant increase in our total tax bill - or other tightening of fiscal policy - would very likely push us over that brink.
If Mr. Kennedy can find a way to tax the rich more and the poor, or any of the rest of us, less without injuring the economy, fine! But raising the level of taxes to prevent savings and loan deposits from being wiped out is the wrong way to go.
 
ROBERT EISNER
Evanston, Ill., Sept. 20, 1990
 The writer is the William R. Kenan Professor of Economics at Northwestern University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (95%); BAILOUTS (92%); BANK FAILURES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); RECESSION (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); TAX LAW (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FIRES (64%); 

PERSON: EISNER, ROBERT; KENNEDY, JOSEPH P 2D (REPR) ROBERT D KENNEDY (92%); 



313 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Paris Subway, Like New York's, Had to Turn Itself Around

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In regard to ''Underground Ideas'' (editorial, Sept. 19), about an American who likes the Paris Metro and wonders why it can't be duplicated in the New York City subway system, I would like to offer some observations of a Frenchman in New York with experience in mass transit.
Fifteen years ago, the Paris Metro suffered from the same problem of declining ridership that is plaguing New York City, and crime was a main issue. The Paris Mass Transit Authority started a campaign to reverse the decline, including complete renovation of stations, improvement in lighting, and a comprehensive closed-television and alarm system to monitor all areas in the subway, augmented by police patrols. The result was a measurable increase in the safety of subway platforms.
The Paris Metro also pioneered automatic fare collection with those little yellow tickets that have become a symbol of such fare systems. Convenient ticket-vending machines that are placed throughout the subway system allow passengers to buy tickets for single rides, daily, weekly or monthly service - often at a deep discount against the cost of multiple single rides. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's Trans-Hudson, or PATH, system is in the process of installing similar vending machines.
This aspect of convenience and economy has impressed regular Paris Metro riders and tourists alike, and I believe it would work in the New York subways as well.
In recent years, New York City has made great progress in improving its subway trains. The challenge for this world capital now is to improve security and convenience at the subway stations so that even its most sophisticated foreign visitors will be impressed.
 
ERIC BERNARDINI
New York, Sept. 24, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%); NEW YORK (94%); PORT AUTHORITY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PARIS (FRANCE); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (65%); 

PERSON: BERNARDINI, ERIC



314 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Was Told of Risk in Teacher Pact

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The 5.5 percent raise that Mayor David N. Dinkins gave New York City's teachers came over the fierce objections of top city budget officials, who warned it might have serious consequences for the city's fiscal health, interviews with officials who took part in the negotiations reveal.
The city's Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, argued that the pay increase should be held to 4 percent, just below the cost-of-living spiral and a figure that Mr. Michael thought would not hobble the city in its negotiations with other municipal unions. He was backed by Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel, who was sanitation commissioner in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch.
But Eric J. Schmertz, the city's Commissioner of Labor Relations and a former dean of the Hofstra University Law School, argued that the money for a 5.5 percent increase was available in state and pension sources outside the city's budget. With Mr. Dinkins's approval, he opened the city's accounts to the teachers' union and the Board of Education to show that the city was not hiding any funds that might be used for pay increases. 
Some negotiators for the city and the Board of Education think that strategy backfired. The union identified extra funds and strengthened its case for a higher increase. Ultimately Mr. Schmertz prevailed with Mr. Dinkins, and the Mayor made the 5.5 percent offer on Sept. 30. Albert Scardino, the Mayor's press secretary, acknowledged that there was a ''vigorous debate'' on the raise. He said Mr. Dinkins had sided with Mr. Schmertz's figure because he felt it would recognize the teachers contributions while allowing the city to ''maintain its fiscal balance.''
 
Split in City Ranks Apparent
The division in the city's negotiating ranks was so open that it became evident to negotiators for the other side. Technically the other side was the United Federation of Teachers, but in this case it sometimes included the Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, and his aides. Mr. Fernandez supported higher salaries to stop a drain of teachers to the suburbs.
Accounts of the negotiations, gathered from interviews with officials of the city, the board and the teachers' union, suggest that the union may have exploited the discord to achieve a figure that some fiscal monitors have challenged as an untimely extravagance.
''The city boxed itself in by being totally honest on how you would finance it,'' said one negotiator. ''The city didn't have a strategy, and they allowed events to overtake them.''
The negotiator, who supported the 5.5 percent increase, said he was nevertheless surprised by the successful outcome and astonished that Mr. Schmertz did not fight more tenaciously for a lower figure.
Officials of the teachers' union, however, praised Mr. Schmertz's ability to bring the sides together.
The 64-year-old Commissioner, a former arbitrator whose decisions in city disputes often angered Mayor Koch, said only that Mr. Michael ''argued his position, and I argued mine.''
 
Pact Defended as 'Prudent'
He said he had taken the position that ''a total package of 5.5 percent was a fair and reasonable and prudent settlement for the teachers, particularly because only 1.5 percent of the package came from the city budget.''
''This is the cheapest contract ever negotiated by the city for any group of employees,'' he said.
Mr. Michael, a former executive director of the New York State Financial Control Board, said he did not want to reveal any of the city's ''internal discussions.'' But he acknowledged that there was ''a lot of debate.''
''I think we worked together, and we came up with a settlement that we all signed off on,'' he said.
The city had always budgeted a wage increase of 1.5 percent for all its unions, or about $62 million for its teachers. It also knew that it could find 2.5 percent more - or $104 million - by recalculating the earnings of the teachers' pension fund to diminish the city's contributions. Any changes in the pension assumptions must be approved by the State Legislature, however.
 
Board Figures Disputed
The 4 percent was all Mr. Michael felt was available. The Board of Education felt there was more. It had earmarked state aid to offset inflation for the coming year, and of that aid, its officials believed $70 million could be used for increasing teacher salaries.
But city officials interviewed said that Mr. Michael, Deputy Mayor Steisel and others felt that the extra money was illusory. If past experience held true, the city officials felt, the city would be asked to cover board overruns in expenditures before the year was out.
''The board has traditionally gone out on many limbs, and then they asked the city to write the check,'' said one city official who took part in the negotiations. ''Why should this year be any different?''
''The Board of Education talked out of both sides of its mouth,'' he said. ''They screamed about layoffs, and then they squirreled this state money away.''
 
Wrong Signal Feared
The officials were also concerned about the signal a larger increase would send to other unions, as well as to the potential buyers of city bonds and others who base their decisions on the city's fiscal prudence.
''We could have stayed with 4 percent,'' the city official said. ''That would have been a signal of real austerity, yet it would have been a commitment that the teachers needed to receive some funds.''
Mr. Schmertz, who was particularly worried about the impact of a strike, did not agree.
''The budget department does not make labor policy about precedents for other labor contracts,'' he said.
While the teachers' union has a history of not working without a contract, Mr. Michael and Mr. Steisel believed that the city should have held to 4 percent.
Sandra Feldman, the president of the teachers' union and one of the earliest and strongest supporters of the Dinkins mayoral campaign, wanted 8 percent, negotiators said, and she did not trust Mr. Michael's figures. She felt there was more flexibility in the city budget than officials were admitting - in such traditional caches as the allocations for lawsuit settlements, for example.
 
Pitch for 6 to 6.5 Percent
Her aides felt they could identify enough money to increase teacher salaries by an additional 1 percent. That would have meant a total increase of 6 to 6.5 percent.
''We believe strongly - and we looked at the budget and the numbers, and we care about the city - that the money to pay for the settlement is there,'' Ms. Feldman said in an interview.
Mr. Michael rejected her figures, according to some officials who took part in the negotiations. But, they said, she got a sympathetic ear from Mr. Schmertz.
Mr. Schmertz denies that he ever moved beyond 5.5 percent.
As the deadline neared and as the negotiations moved to Gracie Mansion, Mr. Schmertz argued that the money was available in the three-part package he had outlined. Mr. Michael protested, in the words of one negotiator, that ''everything available for the teachers was bad precedent for everybody else.''
 
In-Fighting 'Assumed'
''They never argued in front of us,'' said one negotiator. ''But we knew they were fighting because they spent all those hours with each other. What were they talking about? We assumed they were split.''
Late on Sept. 30, Mr. Dinkins sided with Mr. Schmertz, pleased that the increase would not stretch the city's budgeted share beyond the original amount of 1.5 percent set aside for all unions. He made his 5.5 percent offer to the teachers, and Ms. Feldman, feeling she had got less than she wished but enough to please her membership, accepted.
Mr. Schmertz said the decision to offer 5.5 percent was the Mayor's. ''It's not unusual for advisers to have a disagreement, but the basic decision that was made in that situation was made by the one who should be making it -namely, the Mayor,'' he said.
''I believe our approach should be different from what it was in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch,'' he said. ''The Koch administration's approach was one of disrespect for unions. We wanted an approach of cooperativeness and problem-solving together. The teacher contract was consistent with that philosophy.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip R. Michael, left, the city's budget director, and Eric J. Schmertz, Commissioner of Labor Relations disagreed over increase in teachers' wages. Mr. Schmertz prevailed and a 5.5 percent raise was offered. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Neal Boenzi/The New York Times) (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (56%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (72%); SUBURBS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; MICHAEL, PHILIP R; STEISEL, NORMAN (FIRST DEPUTY MAYOR); SCHMERTZ, ERIC J; FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR) PHILIP R MICHAEL (90%); DAVID N DINKINS (82%); 



315 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sports Prominent on Japanese Shopping Lists

BYLINE: By GERALD ESKENAZI

 BODY:
From baseball to auto racing to golf, the games Americans play and watch have become the focus of a recent wave of Japanese buying interest in the United States. The buying activity appears to be part of an effort by the Japanese to expand their financial interest here to include their passion for American sports and leisure.
In recent months, Japanese investors, or their American subsidiaries, have acquired the Pebble Beach Golf Club; the 1989 horse of the year and Kentucky Derby winner, Sunday Silence, and one of the best-run minor league baseball franchises, the Birmingham Barons.
The most dramatic Japanese attempt was probably an aborted deal to buy the Dallas Cowboys, an icon of pro football in this country. The most symbolic attempt might be the interest they recently showed in acquiring part ownership of the New York Yankees. 
 
Having Fun With Money
''This is just the beginning,'' said a Japanese-born economist, Yoshi Tsurumi, professor of international business at Baruch College of the City University. ''Having an ownership gives a company not only an inside view of how a team works, but what's happening in America.''
This trend is symbolic, Japanese executives and observers say, of the rush to have fun with the money the Japanese have worked so diligently to earn.
''We believe in further growth of leisure and sports,'' said Shiro Yasuno, president of Suntory International Corporation, owners of the Birmingham Barons and the New York-based arm of Japan's largest privately held company. ''The Japanese have become rich. Everyone says Japanese work too hard and should take vacations.''
Yuji Minami, the vice president of Dentsu Incorporated, the New York arm of the world's largest advertising agency, added: ''Until the end of the 1970's, Japanese watched only Japanese play against other Japanese or against foreigners. But now they enjoy watching good games: National Football League teams, National Basketball Association.''
 
Concerned About Image
This year, an N.F.L. game of the week is being shown in Japan, and two N.B.A. teams, Phoenix and Utah, will open their seasons in Tokyo with two games Nov. 2-3. American baseball has been popular in Japan for three-quarters of a century, and Japanese leagues have grown since the end of World War II.
But the Japanese are greatly concerned about how their acquisitions will affect their image. Japanese buyers and American sellers are wary of offending an American public that has become sensitive to a burgeoning number of Japanese investors, who now trail only the British as foreigners with a financial investment in the United States.
That is why, a former official of the Dallas Cowboys disclosed, Japanese do not own the team. Jim Francis, a banker and partner of Bum Bright, the club's former owner, said that two years ago the Japanese conglomerate the Seibu Saison Group, whose American holdings include Inter-Continental Hotels, had studied the Cowboys and American football.
 
Fear of Public Backlash
''We had a lot of interest from Seibu,'' Francis said. ''First they sent a lawyer from Honolulu. Then two people came from Japan. They had a verbal offer on the table.''
That was late in 1988, when Bright's financial empire, which included a savings and loan institution, was toppling. But even though he needed cash, the deal was aborted. The Cowboys had become known as ''America's Team,'' and despite their poor performance in recent seasons they remain a powerful symbol of American sports and are as Texas as the Alamo and the 10-gallon hat.
''The Japanese were very worried about a public backlash, and very frankly so was I,'' Francis said.
Eventually, the club was sold last year to Jerry Jones, an American oilman. But it remains obvious to Francis why the Japanese had expressed interest in the Dallas team and not another football franchise.
''They wanted a crown-jewel N.F.L. franchise,'' he said. ''What ran through my mind was what the N.F.L. would say about it, what the country would say about it.''
 
Diversified Investments
Although Japanese investment is most visible in their purchases of traditional American sports entities like Pebble Beach, their involvement also includes land investment, the payment of rights fees and the purchasing of copyrights. Their involvement includes:
* Holding an $80 million stake in Gulfstream and Calder parks outside of Miami. The owner contends the Japanese are not his partners, but a rival insists the deal gives the Japanese control of the race track.
* Purchasing an event on the Virginia Slims tennis tour - the Dallas tournament - and transplanting it to Tokyo.
* Purchasing the right to the ''Indy'' name from the Indianapolis Speedway with plans to run a ''Japan Indy'' at a new track outside Tokyo. The track can accommodate 200,000 spectators.
The Japanese are also taking a stronger interest in areas of international competition they have previously shunned. They are planning their first challenge in the America's Cup yachting competition, to be sailed in 1993. Not just one boat, but two, are being built by competing syndicates, each boat costing about $20 million.
 
'Business Is Business'
In the recent turmoil involving the Yankees and their embattled owner, George Steinbrenner, two limited partners have attempted to unload their 9.6 percent share of the club. The broker says he is looking to Japanese investors. If they buy in, they would own a share of America's most valuable, and visible, sports franchise, worth a minimum of $250 million. Some owners put the value at more than $400 million. To Arthur B. Hancock 3d, this is not a happy trend. He was the principal owner of Sunday Silence, who fetched more than $8 million and is going to the island of Hokkaido for breeding. Hancock's roots are deep in the blue grass of Kentucky, and he contends that Government regulations have stifled initiative in this country.
''It breaks my heart to have to sell the horse,'' said Hancock, whose partners included the trainer Charlie Whittingham. ''But Charlie said we'd be fools not to take the offer. I've got six children. Business is business.''
 
Learning Baseball
Earlier this year, Art Clarkson, who bought the Birmingham Barons for $150,000 in 1980, sold them to Suntory for a reported $3.6 million.
''I was comfortable selling to them,'' Clarkson said. ''I knew they'd be responsible to the community.''
The new president of the club is Marty Kuehnert, who spent most of the past 20 years living in Japan as a broadcaster, writer and restaurateur before joining Suntory. He described the company's interest as ''a tremendous involvement in sports'' and said it had sent two men from Japan to learn stadium management.
Yasuno, the Suntory executive, said the main purpose of buying the Barons was ''to learn the baseball business, and this is where it started.''
''We don't have any plans now for further teams, but if there's a chance to buy a team in Japan, we will look into it,'' Yasuno said. ''We have no intention to buy a Major League Baseball team. Maybe Triple-A.''
 
Crowded Courses in Japan
Suntory remains sensitive about its involvement in the American pastime. When Kuehnert was asked by The New York Times to allow a photographer to take pictures of the two Japanese working with the team, he declined unless he could be guaranteed a ''positive'' article. The Times refused. Tom Oliver, the president of Pebble Beach Company, said that he had not encountered widespread anti-Japanese sentiment since the sale of the golf club. The 5,300-acre resort on the Monterey Peninsula was reportedly sold for $800 million.
''Some people had xenophobic sentiments - 'How can you sell to Japanese?' - but of course there's no answer to them,'' he said.
Affluent Japanese already travel to Hawaii and California to play golf rather than play on their own crowded courses, where a round of golf routinely costs $200 and club memberships go for as much as $1 million. Would Japanese ownership of Pebble Beach increase the flow of golfers to California?
''It's too early to tell,'' Oliver said, ''but they like it for its tradition and what it's done for the game.''
 
Importing Sports
Japanese are also bringing American-style sports to their own country. Auto racing, for example, has become a passion. So Japanese interests have bought the ''Indy'' name to create a track there, and are considering creating a duplicate of the Indianapolis track's 2.5-mile course.
Another American event came to Japan recently: a tournament on the Virginia Slims tennis tour. Each stop on the tour is independently owned, so Dallas interests were able to sell their event to Dentsu of Japan.
''Tennis has become a status symbol in Japan since Prince Akihito met Princess Michiko at a tennis match in 1960,'' Minami said.
America's games have been a longtime attraction for the Japanese. ''The young people are interested in United States sports,'' Yasuno said. Minami, the Dentsu executive, recalled: ''After World War II, Japan was ruled by the U.S.A., and we always tried to catch up.'' And what's next? ''We went recently to the head office of the World Wrestling Federation in Connecticut,'' Minami said. ''Sooner or later, we'll get interested in that.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Sports Pages on Oct. 10 about Japanese corporate involvment in United States sports misidentifed the company that tried to buy the Dallas Cowboys. It was the Seibu Railway Group, not the Seibu Saison Group.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''We believe in further growth of leisure and sports,'' said Shiro Yasuno, president of Suntory International Corporation. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 4324 (TSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: DENTSU INC (81%); SUNTORY INTERNATIONAL CORP (66%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); DALLAS COWBOYS (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); DALLAS COWBOYS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (88%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (88%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); HORSE RACING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); AUTO RACING (73%); HORSES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: ESKENAZI, GERALD JIM FRANCIS (70%); 



316 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 5; Living Desk

LENGTH: 2029 words

HEADLINE: Frozen Pizzas To Feed a Nation Of Homebodies

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
BELT-tightening and pizza-eating go hand in hand. Not that pizza is diet food - although it can be - but it is budget food. For the manufacturers of frozen pizzas, hard times can mean increased sales.
''With a downturn in the economy, this is a great time for frozen pizza,'' said Eugene Welka, president of the National Frozen Pizza Institute, a trade group. Mr. Welka is also president of McCain Ellio's, a major brand sold in the East.
For two years the frozen-pizza industry has accounted for more than $1 billion in sales, growing at a rate of about 7 percent a year. But it is dwarfed by the $25 billion restaurant and delivered-pizza market, which has been posting increases of 10 to 12 percent a year, in part because of expanding chains like Pizza Hut and Domino's. 
''Adults preferred home-delivered pizza to frozen and this part of the industry is driving consumption,'' Mr. Welka added. ''But we'll be seeing changes. In this economic climate, mealtime consumption of frozen pizza is bound to go up because of the price benefit. No other food delivers this much taste and nutritional value for the money.''
The average price of frozen pizza is $2.71 a pound; home-delivered pizza is at least triple that amount.
No matter how you slice it, pizza has become a favorite American food. On the average, Americans now eat a pizza every six weeks, as against one every eight weeks five years ago, according to Pizza Today, a publication of the National Association of Pizza Operators, a restaurant trade group.
The city with the highest per capita consumption is Milwaukee, Mr. Welka said. But in terms of total sales of frozen pizzas, Chicago is No. 1, with about $69 million annually, with New York a close second at $57 million. Regionally, frozen pizza sales are highest in the Southeast.
Pizza, which many references say was first served in America in 1905, at Lombardi's on Spring Street in New York, has been available in supermarket freezers for more than 25 years. Now the freezers are bulging with a proliferation of styles: pizza with something for everyone, for families with children in particular, but also for dieters and people with sophisticated tastes. In a sampling of 20 brands of frozen pizzas, this writer rated half of them satisfactory or better in texture and flavor.
The average supermarket carries at least a dozen different kinds of frozen pizza. The most popular, nationally, are made with a thin crust (67 percent) and topped with a ''deluxe'' combination, sausages and peppers (33 percent). Pepperoni is the next most popular topping (24 percent), followed by cheese (20 percent) and sausage (17 percent), according to SAMI, a market research company based in Chicago.
But in the East, plain cheese is the favorite topping, accounting for more than 60 percent of the sales. Easterners are more likely to add their own toppings, the manufacturers say. The rest of the country insists on sausage.
Children have a great deal to do with the growth in sales. In a Gallup survey conducted by telephone among 258 parents with children under 13 in December 1989, 82 percent named pizza as their children's favorite food. Chicken nuggets were a distant second with 51 percent.
A study conducted in the summer of 1989 by the American Frozen Food Institute in Washington reported that 62 percent of American children are preparing at least one meal a week for themselves. The researchers, conducting interviews by mail with 800 working women with children under 13, reported that more than half the children said they consider pizza their favorite frozen food to prepare.
''Of all the products Stouffer's makes, pizza is at the top of the list among favorites for children,'' said Roz O'Hearn, public-affairs manager for Stouffer's, one of the leading brands of frozen pizza.
Child-sized pizzas in single servings, like those of McCain Ellio's and Tony's, can be popped into toaster ovens or microwave ovens and are convenient for snacks and often dinner, especially for households with working parents whose children may have to fend for themselves after school. ''My children eat a lot of frozen pizza; it's something they can get to easily and prepare by themselves without a problem,'' said Claudia McAdam of Littleton, Colo., in response to the American Frozen Food Institute survey. She is a writer who has boys age 7 and 10.
Ms. O'Hearn of Stouffer's said parents often keep single-serving Lean Cuisine pizzas in the freezer as a convenience for baby sitters. Selina Guber, president of Children's Market Research in New York, said, ''Pizza becomes almost a mainstay in the diet as kids get older.''
One advantage of pizza is that it is nutritious. A serving of the average frozen pizza is 15 percent protein (about 15 grams), 58 percent carbohydrates and 27 percent fat, and contains a number of vitamins and minerals including calcium, according to the pizza institute. It has about 320 calories. Pizza has become one of the most widely served foods in school lunch programs, said Mr. Welka of the National Frozen Pizza Institute.
But these days, frozen pizza is not being marketed only for children. In recent years some restaurants have entered the frozen-pizza business, going after sophisticated adult palates.
Wolfgang Puck, the chef and owner of Spago in Los Angeles, introduced Spago-style frozen pizza in 1986 with such flavors as four cheeses, spicy chicken and sausage and herb. These pizzas are sold in supermarkets for as much as three times the price of other frozen pizzas but are of a quality that makes them suitable for guests, not just for a quick supper. Hotels and restaurants also offer them. The Pizzeria Uno stores sell restaurant-quality frozen pizzas for home consumption, comparable with the fresh pizzas served in the chain's 74 stores around the country.
The leading brand in supermarkets, Tombstone, which began in 1962 in a bar called the Tombstone Tap in Medford, Wis., was acquired by Kraft General Foods in 1986. Its pizzas are now available in the West and are gradually being extended into national distribution.
Among the varieties of Tombstone pizza is the new Tombstone Light, a line of relatively low-fat pizzas with about 250 calories in eight to nine ounces, compared with 310 calories in a Weight Watchers pizza weighing 5.75 ounces. The Tombstone Light pizzas are made with leaner meats and lower-fat mozzarella than the regular cheese used by the company.
''We expect to see increased interest in this type of product,'' said Cathy Pernu, communications coordinator of Tombstone pizza.
The diet pizzas are primarily aimed at the adult market, said Mr. Welka of the frozen-pizza institute. ''Concerns about fat on the part of aging baby boomers will create the next wave of growth for frozen pizza designed to appeal to that market,'' he said.
The industry is also turning to new flavors, more combinations and other ways of extending the lines. Pizzas intended primarily for microwave ovens now account for nearly a quarter of the market. ''We do not expect the microwave segment to increase,'' Mr. Welka said. ''It has slipped about half a percent over a year ago.''
In The Living Section's sampling of frozen pizzas, only plain cheese pizzas were compared. Most companies use real cheese, but it is sometimes brick, cheddar or generic semi-soft cheese, not always mozzarella. A few use imitation cheeses in which vegetable oil is substituted for animal fat. Most pizzas made with real cheese trumpet the fact on the label.
The pizzas tasted included some lower-calorie, French-bread and deep-dish varieties in addition to the traditional round, thin-crust cheese-and-tomato styles. The best were the brands that delivered a uniformly crisp crust, a well-seasoned tomato base and an ample amount of flavorful, pleasantly elastic cheese.
A few of the other brands came close to these standards, but suffered from excessive blandness or odd flavors. Others consisted of crust like sodden cardboard covered with an unsightly mass of bland tomato and relatively little cheese.
The worst were the microwave pizzas. Because microwave ovens heat food without allowing them to crisp and brown, pizzas intended for heating in microwave ovens come with silver cardboard pads and sleeves, not much help in achieving the crispness usually associated with pizza.
''It just does not deliver the taste and crispness,'' Mr. Welka said. ''Those are the things people demand in pizza and most adults will not sacrifice them for sheer convenience.''
 
Something From the Oven
Thirteen widely available brands of frozen cheese pizza were tasted by Florence Fabricant, who baked them in a conventional oven following manufacturers' directions. In some instances the pizzas took slightly longer to cook than the time specified. The pizzas were removed from the oven when the crusts looked reasonably brown and the cheese was melted. They were allowed to cool about five minutes before tasting. Pizzas are listed alphabetically within each ranking.
 
PREFERRED
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Pizzeria Uno Deep Dish Pizza/Double Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Nationally, in Pizzeria Uno outlets
COMMENTS: Spicy, excellent crust, good cheese and tomatoes
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Tony's Pizza/Extra Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Nationally, except in major cities
COMMENTS: Excellent crisp crust, rich cheese and tomatoes, but a trifle bland
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Wolfgang Puck's California Pizza/Four Cheeses
WHERE SOLD: Nationally, in major cities
COMMENTS: Rich cheese and herb flavor, lovely fresh tomato taste, thin, crisp crust
 
SATISFACTORY
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Celentano Thick Crust/Cheese
WHERE SOLD: New York and Philadelphia areas
COMMENTS: Honest flavor, good cheese, tastes better than it looks
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Celeste Pizza for One/Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Nationally
COMMENTS: Attractive, crisp crust, decent but bland flavor
 
BRAND/VARIETY: McCain Ellio's/Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Eastern states
COMMENTS: Good flavor, tastes better than it looks, fairly crisp crust
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Stouffer's Pizza/Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Nationally
COMMENTS: Attractive, mellow tomato flavor, cheese has a cheddar taste, crisp crust
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Tombstone/Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Western and Central states
COMMENTS: Decent tomato and cheese flavors, crisp crust
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Tree Tavern/Cheese/
WHERE SOLD: New York area
COMMENTS: Attractive, very crisp crust, decent flavor
 
FAIR
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Jeno's Crisp 'n Tasty/Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Nationally
COMMENTS: Soggy, except at edges, spicing has artificial flavor
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Lean Cuisine French Bread Pizza/Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Nationally
COMMENTS: Cheese slightly dry, sauce overpowering with herbs
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Totino's Party Pizza/Cheese
WHERE SOLD: Nationally
COMMENTS: Unsightly, soggy, bland
 
BRAND/VARIETY: Weight Watchers
WHERE SOLD: Nationally
COMMENTS: Crisp Crust, rubbery cheese, green pepper flavor
 
The Proof's in The Microwave
FROZEN pizzas intended for microwave ovens now make up about a quarter of the frozen pizza market, but they leave a lot to be desired in terms of flavor and texture.
I tasted seven brands of frozen cheese pizzas recommended for baking in a microwave oven. They were Celeste Pizza for One, McCain Ellio's Microwave Extra Cheese Pizza, Pillsbury Microwave French Bread Cheese Pizza, Red Baron Deep Dish Singles, Stouffer's Lean Cuisine Cheese French Bread Pizza, Tony's Microwave and Weight Watchers Cheese Pizza.
These brands all come with special paper sleeves, bases and crisping disks, equipment intended to produce the crisp, brown curst that is difficult to achieve in a microwave oven. They were baked according to manufacturers' directions.
Only Tony's Microwave Cheese Pizza was satisfactory. It had a decent flavor and a reasonabley crisp crust.
The other pizzas were fair. The McCain Ellio's, with a slightly crisp crust, was the only one that was not utterly soggy. The cheese topping on the Stouffer's Lean Cuisine French Bread Pizza was better cooked in a microwave oven than in a conventional oven.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (pgs. C1 & C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT INC (56%); NATIONAL FROZEN PIZZA INSTITUTE (55%); 

SUBJECT: PIZZA PIES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS FROZEN FOODS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DIETING (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CHEESE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); NUTRITION (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE EUGENE WELKA (76%); 



317 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 4, Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Crafting Jewelry for the Tourist Trade

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: LIMURU, Kenya

 BODY:
ON one wall of Vicky Chignall's jewelry workshop, nestled in the green hills of the farming country northwest of Nairobi, hang ropes of red beads, some of them centuries old. Along another wall are rows of boxes, each containing ornamental metal leaves, cowrie shells, blue Venetian beads, turquoise cylinder beads used in the slave trade and antique Ethiopian silver beads.
Exotic adaptations of African styles have become fashionable in the West even as many Africans attach themselves to the symbols of Westernization - blue jeans, running shoes and gold jewelry - and lose the taste for their traditional jewelry.
Mrs. Chignall and other Western designers like Angela Fisher and Alan Donovan use African materials, inspirations and craft artists to make beaded jewelry that appeals to tourists in Nairobi. ''Africa Adorned'' by Ms. Fisher, a book on African jewelry published by Harry N. Abrams in 1984, helped popularize what had been a connoisseur's specialty. 
Each of the three designers came to Africa with no intention of staying. Mrs. Chignall, formerly an interior designer in London, first arrived on a cross-continent trip in 1972. Mr. Donovan went to Nigeria as a program officer for the United States Agency for International Development in 1969 and soon found that the bureaucratic life did not suit him. Long fascinated by African art and culture, he established the African Heritage Store in Nairobi in 1972.
Ms. Fisher, an Australian, came to Africa in the early 1970's as a tourist. She has been exploring the continent with a camera and an eye for jewelry and African decoration ever since.
Much of the fascination with African jewelry comes from the stories and meanings associated with the beads and objects used. In African society, jewelry is not only an elaborate form of adornment but can signify important milestones like puberty, circumcision and marriage.
The best of the Western-designed jewelry in the African style incorporates old African beads of stone, horn, ostrich shells and cowrie shells as well as antique European glass and amber beads. European beads first trickled into Africa in the fourth century and poured into the northern and western coasts of the continent from the 1500's and were traded for ivory, gold and slaves.
Mrs. Chignall delights in explaining the different elements that make up her ''witch doctor'' necklace. The first bead next to the clasp is a turquoise tubular glass one brought from Europe centuries ago and commonly used in the West African slave trade. ''A West African ruler is reputed to have exchanged five people for one bead,'' Mrs. Chignall said. The necklace is a dramatic mixture of shapes and colors with beads of horn, wood, silver, coconut shell and volcanic stone beads, illustrating the creator's definition of a bead as anything that can be threaded. A newly made metal medallion symbolizing a crocodile hangs in the center.
Another creation uses strands of fine red Venetian trading beads with white interiors, known as heart beads, that are twisted into a choker around the neck. Similar beads were customarily worn as bodices, loosely draped over the front and back of young Dinka women in southern Sudan. The bodices were a sign that a woman was eligible for marriage.
The beads, according to Ms. Fisher in ''Africa Adorned,'' were provided by the woman's family and arranged in patterns to indicate the family's prosperity. Cowrie shells were often added as a centerpiece to the bodice, and were believed to promote fertility.
Old beads are becoming harder to find, many of them already scooped up by Western jewelry makers and tourists. Some are difficult to get because of war: much of the southern Sudan has been virtually impenetrable to outsiders for the last seven years because of conflict. What is left in African hands is often kept as a bank balance to be sold during times of drought.
And as the outside world, particularly Western museums and wealthy collectors, begins to recognize old African gold, amber and coral jewelry for its craftmanship, prices have soared. A single Egyptian scarab can cost up to $25; the witch-doctor necklace is $1,000.
Both Mrs. Chignall and Ms. Fisher scour favorite markets in the Ivory Coast, in northwest Africa and Ethiopia in search of old pieces. And they rely on traders who buy jewelry in remote parts of Africa and bring it to the cities to sell.
As the authentic pieces become scarce, the designers have to innovate. Mr. Donovan, who has been designing jewelry since 1974, recalls trying to copy the aluminum-leaf pendants worn by the Pokot and Turkana tribes in northern Kenya. (If worn through the nose, the leaf pendant announces a daughter's engagement.) The leaves are traditionally made from melted-down cooking pots, so Mr. Donovan bought similar aluminum pots for his craftsmen in Nairobi.
''The new cooking pots did not melt down in the same way,'' he said. ''The consistency was wrong.'' The Banana Republic stores, which had ordered leaf jewelry from him, insisted on the original look. ''So I had to go around the country exchanging new aluminum pots for old ones to melt down,'' Mr. Donovan said.
The designers employ African craft artists to make the jewelry, which can take days. Mrs. Chignall estimated that it takes a week for her most senior worker, Charles Muchunga, to complete one witch-doctor necklace.
Among Mrs. Chignall's 16 workers from the Masai and other tribes, there is some bemusement that Westerners are fascinated with jewelry that Africans no longer wear. One man wore a thin gold necklace of Western design. Several Masai men wore a single-beaded bracelet, but they say young people do not wear the traditional African styles. As Mr. Muchunga inspected a half-finished necklace in the workshop, he said the design would be foreign to most Kenyans.
''This is not for many Africans,'' he said. ''It is heavy and has many surprising things on it, like a crocodile. If we were buying a necklace that we wanted to wear, we would buy a light one that looks like gold and is imported.''
Another craftsman in the workshop, Patrick Njumguna, said that since he and his parents had converted to Christianity they had stopped wearing jewelry. ''Christianity says it is sinful to decorate yourself,'' he said. ''My grandmother was the last one to wear the jewelry and then she threw it away.''
When the Masai of Kenya wear jewelry now, they tend to wear less metal, preferring pieces made of tiny glass beads from Czechoslovakia. But marriage necklaces are still fashioned from leather that must be made from the back of a cow and slept on for a year to make it supple before being cut into a circular collar. The leather is sewn with hundreds of multicolored beads. From the collar, strings of beads hang to the knee, the number of strings signaling the wealth of the girl.
New Masai marriage necklaces are made in Mrs. Chignall's workshop, but are usually bought by Westerners as wall hangings, not as the latest fad in body decoration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Masai men assembling necklaces from beads, stones and artifacts in Vicky Chignall's workshop in Limuru, Kenya. (Jane Perlez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); KENYA (91%); ETHIOPIA (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGERIA (72%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: HERITAGE STORE (54%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFRICA

SUBJECT: JEWELS AND JEWELRY; DESIGN TOURISM (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); JEWELRY (90%); SLAVERY (76%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); INTERIOR DECORATING (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; FISHER, ANGELA; DONOVAN, ALAN; CHIGNALL, VICKY VICKY CHIGNALL (91%); ANGELA FISHER (78%); ALAN DONOVAN (71%); 



318 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

MARKETS
 
Oil prices soared to record levels, closing for the first time above $40 a barrel on renewed fears of war. [Page A1.]
 
Stocks fell sharply, with the Dow plunging 78.22, to 2,445.54. It was the sharpest decline in more than two months. [D1.] 
 
Prices of Treasury securities plummeted. [D16.]
 
The dollar finished mostly lower, but selloffs in other currencies prevented its decline from deepening. [D17.] Gold prices declined sharply. [D17.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Bush said he might agree to an income tax rise for the wealthy, but later abandoned that position. [A1.]
 
Prosecutors will not present evidence against Michael Milken in one of four transactions that are part of the former financier's presentencing hearing, people involved in the case said. [D1.]
 
Standard & Poor's warned that New York City's credit rating on its bonds might fall. [A1.]
 
The Supreme Court agreed to review a regulation that helped unions organize hospital workers. [A14.]
 
Americans cut the growth of their installment credit in half in August, the Government said. [D6.]
 
COMPANIES
 
A persistent drive by three unions to buy UAL apparently ended when the company's board turned down two offers. [D1.]
 
Motorola stock fell sharply after the company announced a smaller-than-expected increase in third-quarter profits. [D1.]
 
The companies that own Alaska's Prudhoe Bay oilfield said they would spend $1.1 billion on new equipment. [D1.]
 
The list of bidders for crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve includes traders, as well as refiners. [D3.]
 
Northrop's basic business practices have wide-ranging and systemic flaws, the Air Force said. [D4.]
 
Visa U.S.A. announced changes in regulations of its credit cards that could upset A.T.&T.'s new credit card program. [D5.]
 
Missing at the American Magazine Conference is a sense thatthe conference is about magazines. [D21.]
 
Carter Hawley Hale agreed to sell its Thalhimer Brothers subsidiary to May Department Stores. [D4.]
 
Lee Iacocca plans to tell the U.A.W. that Chrysler cannot afford a labor pact like those reached with G.M. and Ford. [A13.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Hisashi Shinto was convicted of accepting bribes in the first big court case to emerge from the Recruit scandal. [D1.]
 
Brazil's new Government opens talks today in New York on the nation's $60 billion commercial debt, the third world's largest. [D2.]
 
Unauthorized loans to Iraq by the Atlanta branch of an Italian bank could cost the Government $2 billion. [D3.]
 
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
 
Industrial manufacturers are re-examining ways to cut their energy costs, like the installation of more efficient pumps. [D9.]
 
Matsushita has an idea for making VCR's easier to program. It has developed a machine that converses with the user. [D9.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Most economists earn their bread by discovering more and more about less and less. Not Donald N. McCloskey, tireless scourge of humbug. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Options markets have begun trading options that do not expire for almost two years. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
 
Tele-Communications Inc. has turned to Hal Riney for a warmly lit, feel-good campaign. Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: V (NYSE) (83%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); M (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VISA INC (83%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); MACY'S INC (52%); PRICES OF TREASURY (56%); AIR FORCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRICE INCREASES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); GOLD MARKETS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BRIBERY (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); DIVESTITURES (66%); ARMED FORCES (63%); TAX INCREASES (55%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (57%); 



319 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Motorola Net Disappoints; Stock Slides

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Motorola Inc., one of the world's largest producers of communications equipment and semiconductors, announced a smaller than expected increase in third-quarter profits yesterday, and the company's stock fell sharply.
The company said it earned $102 million, or 78 cents a share, on sales of $2.7 billion in the third quarter. The profits were up 14.6 percent from $89 million, or 69 cents a share, a year ago, while sales rose 12 percent from $2.41 billion. Motorola said sales rose but operating profits fell in its cellular telephone equipment and two-way radio businesses because of heavy research and development spending. 
 
Shares Down by $7
Shares in Motorola dropped $7 in extremely heavy New York Stock Exchange trading to close at $52.75.
Analysts said they had been led by the company to expect higher earnings per share. ''Here's what is annoying: About a month ago they guided the numbers down from over a buck to 90 to 95 cents,'' said Andrew J. Kessler, an electronics analyst at Morgan Stanley. ''Then today they came out with 78 cents.''
Motorola's third-quarter cellular equipment sales jumped 39 percent from a year earlier, but operating profits fell because research and development spending in the division more than doubled, to 10 percent of revenues from 6 percent, said Richard L. Whittington, an electronics analyst at Kidder, Peabody. ''I would say it'll go up to 12 to 13 percent next year, further crimping margins,'' he said.
Increased competition from LM Ericsson, a Swedish telecommunications company, is depriving Motorola of some contracts to build cellular systems in the United States and overseas, and forcing Motorola to invest more in improving its technology, Mr. Whittington said.
McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., a longtime Ericsson customer, announced a week ago that it would buy digital telephone switches from Ericsson as part of a $250 million overhaul of several of its cellular systems. McCaw said it would move the existing analog switches from Motorola and the American Telephone and Telegraph Company to other markets.
Digital switches use the 1's and 0's of computer language to transfer calls, while analog switches use a wave pattern that mimics the human voice. The Ericsson purchase does not include digital radio transmission equipment, which promises to increase the capacity of cellular telephone systems by three to 20 times.
George Grimsrud, a spokesman for Motorola, said the company was investing much more in communications but declined to comment on how much. The spending is for the development of small, low-power wireless telephones for outdoor and indoor use, and for the improvement of digital cellular equipment, he said. Motorola is also building a new cellular equipment factory in Scotland.
Motorola was forced to invest heavily in the early 1980's in its cellular equipment business, often at the expense of earnings, and now is being forced to do so again for a ''second round'' of cellular technology, Mr. Grimsrud said.
The increase in third-quarter profits this year was also limited because income taxes totaled $40 million, compared with $15 million last year, when Motorola took a one-time adjustment that reduced its tax burden.
The sharp drop in Motorola's stock yesterday partly reflected investors' continued and growing concerns about a possible recession, which could badly hurt sales of the company's cellular telephones and computer chips, Mr. Whittington said. After trading as high as $88.375 earlier this year, the stock now could drop below $50 a share if the economy continues to deteriorate, he said.
Motorola said its sales of semiconductors rose 14 percent from a year ago and operating profits for the division were higher. The company's sales of non-cellular communications equipment, mostly two-way radios, increased 7 percent and operating profits were lower.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (96%); ERIC.B (STO) (94%); ERIC.A (STO) (94%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (94%); T (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); SCOTLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (96%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (94%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (84%); AT&T INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTOROLA INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); COMPANY REPORTS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (75%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH RICHARD L WHITTINGTON (63%); 



320 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Adam Smith, Meet Northrop Frye

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
MOST economists earn their bread by discovering more and more about less and less.
Not Donald N. McCloskey, University of Iowa professor, analyst of Victorian England's economic climacteric, sometime literary critic -and tireless scourge of humbug wherever he spots it.
His latest book, ''If You're So Smart: The Narrative of Economic Expertise,'' published this month by the University of Chicago Press, is surely the first by an economist to marshal the ideas of Harold Bloom, Daniel Defoe, Euripides, Northrop Frye, Steven Jay Gould, Eric Hoffer, C. S. Lewis, Plato, Damon Runyon, George Santayana, Wallace Stevens and Virginia Woolf in pursuit of his prey.
What is on Mr. McCloskey's mind this time around? Perhaps it would be best to let the author explain:
On economists and the decline of the work ethic: ''Once upon a time there was a kingdom with a people who did not like to study, preferring to sniff cocaine and watch videos on MTV; then the king hired an expert social engineer who had done much studying; and then as a result the people became prosperous, without of course having to do anything so painful as studying.'' 
On deconstruction in history: ''The philosophical difficulty was first articulated in the fifth century B.C. by Parenides and his student Zeno: that if everything is perfectly continuous, change is impossible. Everything, so to speak, is packed too tightly to move. . . . [But] if human nature doesn't 'really' change, then history will be a string of weary announcements that the more things change the more they stay the same. If the economy is 'really' in equilibrium all the time, then nothing remains to be done.'' On economic decline: If Victorians did better selling insurance than steel, as they did, then insurance is reckoned a nullity. Similarly the new 'McJobs' in American service industries, such as nursing and education, are reckoned as not being real jobs, like mining coal or spinning cotton.''
On simplifying abstractions: ''Economists spend a lot of time worrying whether their metaphors - they call them 'models,' a phrase that makes tiresome trips to the library unnecessary -meet rigorous standards of logic. They worry less whether their stories - they call them 'stylized facts' - meet rigorous standards of fact.''
On analogies between economics and literature: ''Good empirical work in economics is like realist fiction. Unlike fantasy, it claims to follow all the rules of the world. But of course it, too, is fictional. The applied economist can be viewed as a realistic novelist or playwright, a Thomas Hardy or a Henrik Ibsen.''
On why economists disagree so vehemently on what seem to be matters of fact or logic: [Economists] are like the imperious British visitor to Florence who believes that Italians really do understand English and can be made to admit it if one speaks slowly and loudly.''
On the dangers of using sports analogies in measuring economic performance: ''We do not need to be No. 1 in order to be happy and prosperous; we do not need to crush the Japanese to keep our self-respect. . . . Is it God's plan that the United States of America should ever after be Top Nation?''
On why economists prefer to sell their advice than use it themselves: ''No one with experience of life believes Publishers Clearing House when it writes, 'Ms. Z. Smithh, you have just won $250,000.' ''
On the risk in equating industrial power with military power: ''The Union sacrificed more men than the entire United States did in any other war to put down a rebellion by a less populous section that it outproduced in 1860 by 30 to 1 in firearms, 24 to 1 in locomotives and 13 to 1 in pig iron.''
On why prudent social scientists keep their metaphoric feet on the ground: ''The Nazis drew much of their power from a modernist science grown magical. The buildings and displays of Auschwitz put one in mind not of tarot cards and crystal balls but of modernist laboratories and industrial processes gone mad in an attempt to lay down the future. Likewise, when the modern historical sciences yield to the temptation of myth - the myth of national destiny, for example, or the myth of social engineering - they become silly and magical and dangerous.''
Is there a theme lurking? ''By seeing their stories and metaphors together,'' says Mr. McCloskey, ''the economists and their audiences can resist the many charms of snake oil and see that economists are wise, but not so smart.''
Well, maybe. But one need not linger on the question of whether the whole here is more or less than the sum of the parts. Mr. McCloskey is more interesting on an uninspired day than most of his peers can manage at their very best.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); IF YOU'RE SO SMART: THE NARRATIVE OF ECONOMIC EXPERTISE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); LITERARY CRITICISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); ETHICS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); COCAINE (53%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; MCCLOSKEY, DONALD N (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (73%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (73%); 



321 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Hopes For Lasting Debt Accord

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRASILIA

 BODY:
Seeking to leave behind a decade of capital flight and debt-induced economic stagnation, Brazil's new Government opens talks today in New York over the nation's $60 billion commercial debt, the third world's largest.
After a series of broken accords with creditor banks in the 1980's, Brazil's negotiators now want a radical, lasting debt-reduction pact that would allow the nation to meet payments and provide for growth.
''Capacity to pay'' is to be the slogan of the Brazilian side in what are expected to be marathon talks with its bank lenders, Jorio Dauster, the principal Brazilian negotiator, said in an interview here on Friday.
''From 1983 until today, Brazil had a net transfer overseas of $60 billion in interest and principal payments,'' Mr. Dauster said at the Economy Ministry. ''During that time, our debt increased from $70 billion to $115 billion.'' Mr. Dauster, who holds the rank of ambassador in Brazil's foreign service, is currently on loan to the central bank and working to reduce the country's foreign debt. 
On the other side of the table, foreign creditor banks, especially American banks, are eager to get Brazil to meet its obligations. $10 Billion in Arrears In a default that has cut deeply into the profits of American banks, Brazil stopped making interest payments on its medium- and long-term private bank debt in July 1989. Brazil's arrears have since grown to $10 billion - $8 billion to foreign private banks and $2 billion to foreign government lending agencies.
Through a combination of payments and reschedulings, the foreign government debt is to be cleared up by next February. But the remaining $8 billion is expected to be a critical issue at the talks starting in New York on this afternoon.
''Token payments are out,'' Mr. Dauster said, referring to the commercial debt arrears. Mr. Dauster said Brazil would not make any debt payments until a comprehensive plan had been worked out with its creditors.
In response to pressure from finance ministers of Western creditor nations, Michel Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned Brazil last month that progress toward settling the arrears would be essential for winning the fund's approval of a $2 billion loan to Brazil. To increase pressure on the nation to make up those payments, creditor banks have scaled back short-term trade lines to Brazil.
American bankers fear, however, that a hard line by Brazil on paying the arrears will prompt a United States Government credit review committee to further downgrade Brazil's debt, forcing banks to increase provisions against losses on Brazil's loans.
But Mr. Dauster said that ''that's not a problem for us - that's a problem for bank regulators in the U.S.''
Brazil's President, Fernando Collor de Mello, has said he wants a debt deal completed by the end of the year. But many bankers believe the talks could easily drag on for a year as both sides wrangle over a list of debt-reduction options.
Mr. Dauster has a reputation as a skilled and tough negotiator. He honed his negotiating skills in the 1980's when he served as Brazil's representative in London for talks of the International Coffee Organization involving export quotas and pricing.
In one pre-negotiating gambit, Mr. Dauster announced Friday that he had added six European banks to the negotiating committee, bringing the total number of members to 22.
''He is trying to dilute the American and Japanese influence on the committee,'' a senior bank official familiar with the talks said in a telephone interview from New York.
Under the new arrangement, France, which holds about 5 percent of Brazil's foreign debt, has four banks on the committee. Japan, with 20 percent of the debt, has two banks. The United States, with about one-third of the debt, has seven banks including Chase Manhattan, Chemical, Citibank, Manufacturers Hanover and BankAmerica.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorio Dauster will be the principal Brazilian negotiator in talks on Brazil's commercial debt. (Agencia J B)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); TRENDS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES



322 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Bankers Trust Picks Unit Chief

BYLINE: By Michael Quint

 BODY:
C. Edward Midgley, a veteran of Wall Street and the corporate board room, has joined the Bankers Trust Company as head of its corporate finance group.
At Bankers Trust, which reorganized in the 1980's to become more of a financial adviser and deal-maker and less of a traditional lender, Mr. Midgley will concentrate on developing the relationships with corporate executives needed to generate more business. He is joining the New York-based banking company after two and a half years as vice chairman of the Amoskeag Company, a Boston-based holding company he had advised during a 25-year career at Kidder, Peabody & Company. 
''Bankers Trust did a fine job developing an expertise in investment banking products during the 1980's,'' Mr. Midgley said. ''Now we are pushing to develop stronger relationships with corporate clients, to become less transaction-oriented and more advice-oriented.'' Bank executives hope that stronger relationships with corporate executives will lead to banks taking a more prominent role in arranging mergers and reorganizations, instead of just participating as lenders in deals put together by Wall Street firms.
Mr. Midgley inherits a group of about 25 executives, and expects to hire 10 to 15 more investment bankers from Wall Street firms. With firms and some banks cutting back corporate finance staffs, he said there was a good opportunity for Bankers Trust when activity revived.
Mr. Midgley described himself as ''an egghead'' when it comes to using the complex financial instruments such as interest rate and currency swaps and options that have spread through Wall Street in recent years. ''A lot of chief executive officers are still not comfortable with the idea of swaps,'' he said, and need financial advisers to show how the new techniques can protect against risks such as fluctuating interest rates, currencies and commodity prices.
As vice chairman of Amoskeag and its affiliate Fieldcrest Mills, where he will continue as a member of the board, he saw firsthand the benefits of protecting against the risk of fluctuating cotton prices.
Mr. Midgley lives in Irvington, N.Y. and is a competitive bridge player with his wife, and bridge partner, Laura. At the North American championships in July, he said they fared poorly. ''We are not in the same league with with some of those option traders,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: C. Edward Midgley; Bankers Trust Company (Camera 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AMOS (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2392 HOUSEFURNISHINGS, EXCEPT CURTAINS & DRAPERIES (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AMOSKEAG CO (71%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (70%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CO

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (74%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (62%); CARD GAMES (60%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; MIDGLEY, C EDWARD C EDWARD MIDGLEY (94%); 



323 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing Growth Dips

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Americans cut the growth of their installment credit in half in August, the Government said today.
The Federal Reserve said consumers took out a seasonally adjusted $2.1 billion more than they repaid, or 3.4 percent at an annual rate over July and slightly more than the average $1.78 billion a month in the first seven months of 1990. 
But the growth of consumer credit slowed dramatically from a net increase of $4.73 billion, or 7.8 percent at an annual rate, during July, the Federal Reserve said. Consumer credit averaged $4.42 billion a month during 1988 and 1989.
Consumer confidence plummeted after Iraqi tanks moved into Kuwait on Aug. 2, according to various surveys. The Conference Board, a business research group in New York, said confidence in the United States economy in August dropped to its lowest level since 1983, when the nation was emerging from its last recession.
''The slower growth in August reflected a larger decline in auto loans outstanding and a smaller expansion of revolving credit than in July,'' the report said.
Automobile loans continued their slide, down 7.3 percent, or $1.74 billion. The sluggish automobile sector declined 1.6 percent, or $377 million, in July and 7.3 percent, or $1.76 billion, in June.
Revolving, or credit-card, debt rose $1.78 billion, up 10.1 percent from the previous month. But that was less than half of the 21.7 percent, or $3.78 billion, gain in July.
Bank and credit union loans not secured by real estate rose 10.6 percent, or $1.84 billion, after a 7.4 percent, or $1.27 billion, increase the previous month.
Borrowing for mobile homes advanced 10.9 percent, or $208 million, after a 3.3 percent, or $63 million, gain in July.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Consumer borrowing (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); RECESSION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MOBILE HOMES (50%); 



324 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices of Treasury Issues Plunge

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities plummeted and interest rates rose sharply yesterday, as market participants saw rising oil prices, a weaker dollar and a continuation of the Federal budget negotiations as strong reasons to sell securities.
''I was sort of at a loss to explain why people were buying so strongly on Friday, so I can't say that I'm surprised the market is getting killed right now,'' one trader of government bonds said. ''And even though we have given back half of the gains that were made in the last week or so, I wouldn't be a buyer here either, particularly of bonds. With the dollar and oil acting the way they are, that is not a good trade.'' 
Traders and analysts said that auctions of seven-year Treasury notes and 30-year bonds issued by the Resolution Funding Corporation coming today and Thursday served as another impulse to unload positions.
 
Difficult Auction Foreseen
''With the dollar weak and confidence in Washington at a low ebb, it will be very difficult to auction seven-year and 30-year debt,'' said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a Princeton, N.J., research concern. ''It will take more rate concessions to get these securities sold.''
Late yesterday, the seven-year notes were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.68 percent.
As Mr. McCarthy suggested, reaction in the financial community to the latest twist in the Federal budget negotiations was decidedly negative. The only positive, dealers said, was that the agreements allow the Government to meet its debt obligations for the next two weeks, thereby avoiding default. However, market participants said they were not optimistic that the Oct. 19 deadline for producing a budget would be met.
''As far as I'm concerned, Congress has moved us back to square one on the budget,'' another bond trader said.
 
The Election Factor
''Now we have a dozen different Congressional committees that are going to be participating in the budget process, and there is an election in about a month. I would be very surprised if anything gets done before the election. What they will probably go for is another agreement that pushes out a decision until the middle of November.''
The Treasury, which would have had to postpone auctions of all securities had the budget agreement not been reached and the Federal debt ceiling not been raised, was able to hold its regular auction of three-month and six-month bills yesterday.
At the auction, three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.19 percent, compared with an average rate of 7.18 percent at last week's sale.
Meanwhile, bids on the new six-month bills produced an average yield of 7.21 perccent, unchanged from a week ago.
 
Secondary Rates Near 9%
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, yesterday's selloff pushed long-term interest rates back up close to 9 percent.
In late trading, the 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 97 27/32, down more than 1 1/2 points, or more than $15 for each $1,000 face amount of securities. That pushed the yield to 8.95 percent, up from 8.81 percent in overseas trading on Monday, when United States credit markets were closed.
Treasury note prices were also pummeled.
By late in the day, the 8 3/4 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 21/ 32, down more than a point, to yield 8.80 percent.
And traders of two-year notes, who said the budget agreement reached late Monday would likely delay any move by the Federal Reserve to lower short-term interest rates, pushed down the price of the 8 1/8 percent two-year notes by 6/32, to an offered price of 100 13/32, to yield 7.89 percent.
 
New York Issues Slump
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, traders said the sharp selloff in Treasury issues as well as an announcement from the Standard & Poor's Corporation that it might lower its A- rating on outstanding New York City securities helped to push prices of the city's issues down by about 1/2 point.
The announcement by the ratings agency came as no surprise. Less than a month ago, Standard & Poor's issued a gloomy assessment of the city's economic and fiscal condition that coincided with New York's most recent public debt offering.
Municipal bond traders said that the sharp downturn in Treasury issues helped to push down prices of most actively quoted municipal issues by 1/2 point to 3/4 point.
 
Baltimore Gas Bonds
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company offered $200 million of five-year first mortgage bonds through an underwriting syndicate led by Salomon Brothers.
The 9 1/8 percent bonds, which mature Oct. 15, 1995, were priced at $99.77 to yield 9.183 percent, 75 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 1/2 percent five-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service and A+ by Standard & Poor's.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

$	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.183	96.355	Discounted Rate	7.19%	7.21%	Coupon Yield	7.42%	7.59%	High Price	98.198	96.365	Discounted Rate	7.13%	7.19%	Coupon Yield	7.36%	7.56%	Low Price	98.177	96.350	Discounted Rate	7.21%	7.22%	Coupon Yield	7.45%	7.60%	Accepted at low price	33%	99%	Total applied for	$21,504,030	$23,079,335	Accepted	$9,401,030	$9,403,675	N.Y. applied for	$17,981,595	$19,873,990	N.Y. accepted	$7,173,595	$7,410,440	Noncompetitive	$1,759,625	$1,430,460	
 
Both these issues are dated Oct. 11, 1990. The three-month bills mature Jan. 10, 1991 and the six-month bills, April 11, 1991.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: 3-month treasury bills (Source: The Bond Buyer); Treasury yield curve (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGE (NYSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE GAS & ELECTRIC CO (56%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (56%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



325 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Lower In Worldwide Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mostly lower on world markets yesterday, but selloffs in other currencies prevented its decline from deepening.
The dollar fell sharply in Asian dealings, hitting new lows against the German mark and 18-month lows against the yen before consolidating and recovering slightly when trading shifted to Europe and the United States, said Marc Chandler, an analyst with the consulting firm IDEA.
Traders cashed in on the weekend run-up in the pound and the yen, and their profit taking prevented the dollar from relinquishing further ground. 
Dealers expressed disappointment about lawmakers' extended haggling over a deficit-reduction package and complained about a seeming lack of commitment to resolve the budget problem. President Bush signed a temporary spending bill that keeps the Government operating until Oct. 19 while Congress tries to come up with a budget accord.
Any accord raises the possibility that the Federal Reserve would ease interest rates. Higher interest rates make dollar-denominated securities more attractive to investors, thereby increasing their need to hold the dollar.
The outlook for the dollar remains bearish ''given the problems with the budget as well as the economics we've seen with a recession scenario building here,'' Ronald Holzer, chief dealer at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago, said.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.10 yen to close at 129.95 yen. Later in London, it was quoted higher at 130.30 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 130.25 yen, down from 130.48 yen on Monday.
In London, the pound was quoted at $1.9705, compared with $1.9745 late Monday. In New York it cost $1.9730 to buy one pound, less expensive than Monday's $1.9760.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates included: 1.5238 German marks, down from 1.5323; 1.2735 Swiss francs, down from 1.2800; 5.1015 French francs, down from 5.1300; 1,142.25 Italian lire, down from 1,151.50, and 1.1506 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1514.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



326 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Publishers Are Urged to Shift Focus

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Oct. 9

 BODY:
Something seems to be missing at the American Magazine Conference here. What is missing, oddly enough, is a sense that this conference is about magazines.
To be sure, there are workshops, endless discussions about event marketing, multimedia selling, reducing rate bases and other subjects of concern to the 600 magazine publishing executives gathered here. But it is as if the editorial product were of little consequence. 
There have even been some curious moments of role reversal when the media directors and the advertisers reminded the publishers of the importance of editorial content.
 
'Crystal Clear Identity'
''It seems to me that many publishers don't seem to realize that the relationship with the reader that they sell to the advertiser is provided by the editorial,'' said Richard M. Smith, editor in chief of Newsweek.
At a session today entitled ''What's Wrong, What's Right With Magazine Advertising,'' the four advertising executives on the panel were asked how well they thought publishers represented the editorial philosophy of their magazines. The idea got a big laugh from the audience, which was mainly publishers.
The panelists made it clear that publishers talked to them about magazines ''as if they were talking about program trading'' instead of giving a sense of the individual magazines and its readers.
''I think we sometimes have a greater respect for your readers and your editorial than you do,'' said Paul Keye, chairman of Keye/Donna/ Pearlstein, an advertising agency.
At a panel entitled ''Multimedia Selling: What Do Advertisers Want?'' the discussion turned to whether single-publication companies could still succeed when there was so much emphasis on multi-publication companies and cross-media advertising.
David K. Braun, vice president of media services for Kraft General Foods, said a single magazine with a ''crystal clear identity'' was especially attractive to advertisers because it enabled them to define more precisely who the readers were.
 
Bond With Readers
Dale W. Lang, chairman of Lang Communications, said publishers should never treat magazines as commodities but should emphasize the bond between a magazine and its readers.
He cited Sassy, a Lang magazine for teen-age girls. In a recent issue, a question on the spine of the magazine asked: ''Should Jane put a ring in her nose?''
Readers not only spotted the question but also knew immediately that Jane was Jane Pratt, editor of the magazine. Mail poured in urging Ms. Pratt to put a ring in her nose. She now wears one, and Mr. Lang can present advertisers with just the kind of reader-magazine bond they love.
On Monday evening, the American Society of Magazine Editors, which is sponsoring the conference with the Magazine Publishers of America, discussed what they called the relationship between church and state - between publishers and editors. Many said that as editors, they had not done a good job apprising publishers of the problems of magazine editing in a sluggish economy.
''I would hope that we could discuss the particular issues that tough times raise, particularly for smaller magazines,'' said Maynard Parker, editor of Newsweek.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SCOTTSDALE (ARIZ)

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EVENT MARKETING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WOMEN (72%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE JANE PRATT (79%); DALE W LANG (57%); 



327 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: The Myth of Classnessness

BYLINE: By Benjamin DeMott; Benjamin DeMott, professor of humanities at Amherst College, is author of ''The Imperial Middle: Why Americans Can't Think Straight About Class.''

DATELINE: AMHERST, Mass.

 BODY:
This country is in shackles, its thought, character and public policy locked in distortion and lies. The deceit stands at the root of Federal and state budgetary chaos and corrodes every aspect of national life. It causes the chief executive to expatiate on the defense of ''our life style'' - our life style - as though the way of life of the privileged were universal. And that obliviousness is but a minor symptom of a vast, country-wide self- deception.
Several hallowed concepts - independence, individualism, choice -are woven into the web of illusion and self-deception. But presiding over the whole is the icon of classlessness. 
George Bush asserts that class is ''for European democracies or something else - it isn't for the United States of America. We are not going to be divided by class.'' The forces behind this icon of classlessness range from the media to the national experience of public education.
The myth of classlessness has a history, of course. Caught up in that history, the Framers of the Constitution refused to impose land and property qualifications for Federal office; and 8 out of 10 Americans, in the Depression, claimed to be middle class. In our time, the myth not only lives deep in people's our nerves, but exerts an ever more destructive influence on public policy.
The myth is in tens of thousands of hours of sitcoms watched by tens of millions, young and old. On ''The Cosby Show,'' black Princeton grads win admission to the law and medical schools of their choice - then chuck it all, preferring to start at the bottom as busboys and waitresses.
On ''Designing Women,'' elegant, expensively coiffed Southern businesswomen talk for a second or two with striking curtain factory employees and at once become partisans of the strike: ''We are all labor!'' the ladies cry. In the Harvard alumni magazine, a recent graduate genially avers that ''we're all working class.''
And the myth directly affects the distribution of privileges, bounties and hazards in every sector of life.
Every year, a Federal housing donation of close to $40 billion is awarded to millions earning more than $50,000 annually. The donation takes the form of tax abatements, such as the mortgage interest and property tax exemptions, and the capital gains deferral on housing sales.
The handout to these $50,000-plus neediest comes at a time when the fair market price of rental housing in all 50 states exceeds the means of families in which two wage-earners work full time for the minimum wage, and when New York City alone has 170,000 families on the waiting list for public housing. Only the faith that America is a classless society prevents this charity to the propertied from being recognized for what it is: an indefensible class ripoff.
And the myth of classlessness figures in corporate decisions that strip the workforce of its dignity and skills by killing off one industry after another, from steel to semiconductors. The assumption is that workers aren't shaped by their skills; when quality jobs disappear, workers can just do - and be - something else.
Classlessness functions as the ultimate unspoken excuse for a range of inequities stretching from regressive Social Security taxes to pauperization requirements for care for the disabled, from Attorney General Dick Thornburgh's rejection of guidelines mandating prison terms for white collar criminals to the denial of proper medical care to heart disease patients lacking private insurance and wholly dependent on Medicare.
The Vietnam ''draft,'' the upper income ''bubble,'' tracking in the public schools, ''vocational'' education - all these episodes of state-administered injustice reflect the influence of the myth of classlessness.
And always that influence is masked, obscured, downplayed. Work-related accidents and illnesses kill 70,000 a year - but those people are nearly invisible. ''Most occupational risks are blue collar,'' says Peter Sandman, director of the Environmental Communication Research Program at Rutgers, ''If most risks were professional level they'd get more [media] coverage.''
Gov. James Florio dared to present a fresh, pertinent vision of New Jersey - a vision of a state prepared to acknowledge the realities of our class system and committed to broadening educational opportunity and narrowing the gulf separating rich and poor. The protest against his program is strongest in the richest suburbs, but it has significant working class backing. How could it be otherwise, given the huge resources that have been poured into the campaign to persuade us that we're all one, that each has access to all, that serious inequities simply don't exist?
An immense weight of subsidized opinion has gathered on the side of social untruth, and the means available to those who try to contend against the untruth are fragile. Social wrong is accepted because substantive, as opposed to sitcom, knowledge about class has been habitually suppressed, and the key mode of suppression remains the promotion of the idea of classlessness.
We shall not shake the monster in our midst until we take serious account of the idea of difference - differences between, for one more example, youngsters for whom opportunity means college and youngsters for whom opportunity can only mean the Army. The task is nothing less than that of laying bare the links between the perpetuation of the myth of social sameness and the perpetuation of social wrong. We have all too little time in which to get on with it.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); FAMILY (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (67%); TRENDS (67%); PUBLIC HOUSING (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); FACTORY WORKERS (62%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (50%); 

PERSON: DEMOTT, BENJAMIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



328 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
BUSH SHIFTS STAND ON TAX RISE AGAIN; CONGRESS BAFFLED

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
The White House shifted course again today on tax policy, baffling the Congressional tax committees and leaving Congressional leaders confused about which way to turn.
By the end of the day, the White House was saying that President Bush had no public position on whether taxes on the wealthy should be raised in return for a lower capital gains rate - an arrangement he had embraced and then rejected only the day before -and that he was willing to leave the matter to Congress to decide.
With legions of lobbyists clogging the hallways, lawmakers met in closed sessions throughout the Capitol seeking to make sense of the President's position and to try to write the most important deficit-reduction legislation in history. Ten days into the new fiscal year, the Government remained without a detailed budget plan.
 
An Issue Frozen
The latest developments left frozen the issue that has divided the President and Congress all year: whether capital gains taxes should be lowered in exchange for a higher income tax rate on the wealthiest taxpayers. At this point, the issue of capital gains is likely to end up as a free-for-all debate on the House and Senate floors. 
The House Ways and Means Committee ducked that issue today, approving a bill that left the capital gains issue unaddressed. The plan would raise the gasoline tax and Medicare premiums, but in a way that seemed more palatable to the rank and file than the deficit-reduction deal that the House rejected last week.
 
Similar to Bentsen Bill
The committee's bill was similar to one Senator Lloyd Bentsen, chairman of the Finance Committee, suggested Tuesday but withdrew today because of the confusion over President Bush's position.
As uncertainty over Mr. Bush's shifting position on higher taxes slowed efforts to work out a new budget agreement, the President took to the campaign trail for events in behalf of Republican candidates in Raleigh, N.C., St. Petersburg, Fla., and Atlanta. [Page D22.] The President has the authority to veto any tax-and-spending measures Congress might pass, and it would take a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress to override the veto.
Judging by White House statements today, Mr. Bush's latest position represents a full-circle progression from where he stood about 2 A.M. Tuesday, when Congress approved the broad outlines of a five-year Federal budget.
Later Tuesday morning, Mr. Bush said at a news conference that if Congress agreed to the reduction in capital gains taxes he has long sought, he would consider higher income tax rates on the wealthy. It was the first time he had been other than inflexibly opposed to higher rates.
 
Tuesday Meeting Pivotal
Then, on Tuesday afternoon, the President met with Republican senators. Afterward, Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon announced that Mr. Bush had agreed with the senators that tax rates should not be increased at any price.
Asked about that, Marlin Fitzwater, the President's spokesman, said Tuesday, ''It's fair to say he acquiesced in their views.''
Tuesday night, John H. Sununu, the President's chief of staff, told about 40 lobbyists for corporations and trade associations at the White House that a combination of lower capital gains taxes and higher income taxes on the wealthy would be opposed by the President, said one of the lobbyists, Alan Kranowitz of the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors.
This morning, however, Mr. Bush met with Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the influential chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and afterward Mr. Fitzwater said: ''Publicly, we're not taking a position on any specific items.''
The meetins between White House and Congress continued today as Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and the White House budget director, Richard G. Darman, met with Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill.
 
How Republicans Differ
The situation was complicated by a split between Republicans in the Senate and House. Senate Republicans do not want to cut the capital gains rate if the price is a higher top income tax rate. House Republicans would accept a higher top rate in return for a lower capital gains rate.
The confusion today was such that Senator Bentsen canceled the meeting at which his Finance Committee was to begin voting on a tax plan he offered Tuesday that would have raised the top income tax rate to 33 percent from 28 percent and lowered the capital gains rate to 23 percent from 28 percent. The plan also would have raised the minimum tax paid by the very wealthy to 25 percent from the current 21 percent.
''Frankly, I was ready to proceed this morning,'' Senator Bentsen said. ''But once they changed their position on this, we had to redo our package.''
 
Democrats Chart Course
The Senate Democratic leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, said after talking with Mr. Bentsen, ''In view of the apparent reversal of position by the President, we will now have to reconsider what the appropriate course of action will be.''
Mr. Bentsen, who chatted briefly with reporters after the Democrats on his panel ended their closed-door meeting this evening, said he planned to call a meeting of the full committee on Thursday. ''We've made good headway. I'm pleased with it, we've got good options to present to them tomorrow,'' he said.
Asked whether the choices that would be presented for its consideration would include a cut in the capital gains tax rate, Mr. Bentsen replied, ''That will be one of the options.''
For his part, Mr. Rostenkowski pushed through his committee today a bill that was almost identical to the one Mr. Bentsen offered Tuesday, with one main exception: it did not mention capital gains, income tax rates or the minimum income tax.
Both the Bentsen and the Rostenkowski bills would raise the gasoline tax; increase taxes on alcoholic beverages, tobacco and luxury items; raise the premium and the deductible for Medicare insurance, and over all cut the deficit by $40 billion this year and $500 billion over five years.
 
Trying to Limit Amendments
Mr. Rostenkowski's intention is to bring this core bill to the House floor next week under a rule that would allow two amendments, one to be devised by Democrats and the other by Republicans.
The Democratic amendment would almost certainly raise the tax rate on wealthiest Americans at least to 33 percent. Whether it would give a break to taxes on capital gains is unclear.
The Republican amendment would surely contain a lower capital gains tax. Whether it would also raise the top income tax rate is not certain.
Since Democrats control the House by a 3-to-2 margin, their amendment will probably be adopted and become part of the bill that will be sent to the Senate.
The issue between Republicans and Democrats turns on this: Democrats believe the top tax rate needs to be higher so that the wealthy would bear more of the burden of deficit reduction and the poor and middle class less. Republicans maintain that a low top rate and a lower capital gains tax, while directly most beneficial to the wealthy, would help all Americans by improving the state of the economy.
 
Crystal Ball Is Foggy
Even the most sophisticated students of Congress are unwilling to predict how all this will work out. If, as seems probable, Congress approves a tax-and-spending bill Mr. Bush does not like, there are two possibilities.
He could sign the bill and then blame the Democrats in the remaining days before the Nov. 6 election for raising taxes and approving a budget with insufficient incentives for economic growth. He could also use that argument to deflect blame to Democrats in the event of an economic recession.
Or, he could veto the measure and force Congress to reconvene after the election in a lame-duck session to tackle deficit reduction once again.
Some Democrats, including the House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, believe the partisan nature of the budget battle will help Democrats in the election, enabling them to claim to be the party supporting fairness in the tax system.
But others, including Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, fear the fight plays into the Republicans' hands by letting them portray themselves as the party of prosperity and the Democrats as the party of higher taxes.
 
'Obnoxious' Elements Omitted
The measure approved by the House Ways and Means Committee this afternoon followed the same framework as the agreement announced by President Bush and Congressional leaders Sept. 30 and rejected last week by the House of Representatives.
But the Rostenkowski bill stripped from the agreement elements that the chairman said were ''totally obnoxious to members on the floor of the House of Representatives.''
Among the elements were a two-week waiting period before a person could receive unemployment benefits, nearly $20 billion worth of tax breaks for small businesses and a 2-cent-a-gallon tax on home heating oil.
The bill would raise monthly premiums and the annual deductible for insurances covering doctors' bills under Medicare by a much smaller amount than the President and Congressional leaders had set.
Monthly Medicare premiums, which have not increased since 1982, would rise to $32.40 next year from $28.60 now and would go to $46.50 by 1995. The annual deductible would rise to $100 next year from $75 now, and to $125 from 1992 on.
Under the Rostenkowski bill, gasoline taxes would rise to 20 cents a gallon, an increase of 11 cents, by next July.
A 10 percent luxury tax would be placed on cars costing more than $30,000, boats and airplanes costing more than $100,000 and jewelry and furs costing more than $5,000.
Workers would have to pay a hospital insurance tax on their first $73,000 of income, up from $52,000 today.
Three percent of the deductions of taxpayers with gross incomes of over $100,000 would be disallowed.
Altogether, the plan would raise taxes by $144 billion over five years, about $15 billion more than the plan Mr. Bush and the Congressional leaders adopted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Thad Cochran of Mississippi, left, and Phil Gramm of Texas before a budget meeting. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. D22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CAPITAL GAINS TAX; INCOME TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGETS (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); MEDICARE (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); THAD COCHRAN (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 



329 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Life Insurers Jolted By Sharp Downturn In Real Estate Value

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
With real estate values going downhill and banks nationwide struggling to avoid being buried in the slide, anxieties are focusing on another group of lenders: life insurance companies.
Last week, the Travelers Corporation acknowledged large losses on its real estate investments and chopped its dividend. The news prompted worried investors to sell Travelers shares as well as those of other life insurers with sizable holdings of real estate and ''junk bonds,'' sending their stock prices sharply lower.
Some analysts warn that troubled assets have grown so large at dozens of insurance companies that they could face the prospect of bankruptcy -especially if the economy weakens further. But most experts believe that a wave of bankruptcies putting large numbers of policyholders at risk remains unlikely. Even a lesser crisis of confidence in the life insurance industry, however, could tighten the credit noose on many business borrowers, deepening and lengthening the now-likely recession. 
''It would be disaster to lose a major source of capital,'' concludes Eden Sarfaty, the head of the National Organization of Health and Life Insurance Guarantee Associations.
Until the last decade, life insurance was the most predictable of financial industries. Much premium income was invested in bonds, mortgages and real estate, all of which were susceptible to fluctuations in value. But the death benefits and minimum investment returns promised to policyholders were based on such conservative assumptions that honestly managed insurance companies ran little risk of being unable to pay their obligations.
But since the early 1980's, said Terry Lennon, a senior official in New York State's Department of Insurance, ''life insurers have been forced to change because other financial institutions changed.'' Banks and savings and loans were freed to pay any interest rate they chose, and the competition for deposits grew hotter.
Companies guaranteed higher returns to policyholders, cutting margins for investment error. Yet in seeking to maintain profits, they sank more money in riskier assets, notably bonds from less-than-blue-chip borrowers. IDS Financial Services in Minneapolis estimates that ''junk bond'' holdings now represent 6.4 percent of life insurers' assets - roughly equal to the industry's net worth.
As important, life insurers spread their nets wider in search of cash. Fixed annuities, effectively tax-deferred certificates of deposit, were marketed to investors. And guaranteed investment contracts - promises to pay fixed returns over periods as long as 10 years - were sold by the billions to pension funds.
 
Vulnerability Studied
Much of this new business was profitable. But it increased the probability that insurers would end up owing a lot of money at high interest rates, even as the income on their investments was falling. The savings and loan industry was trapped in just such a predicament in the early 1980's. Without the sense of security conferred by Federal insurance, many would have lost the confidence of depositors and been unable to attract new cash.
IDS concludes that life insurers are now highly vulnerable to economy-wide shocks that raise interest rates, or force corporate borrowers into bankruptcy or undermine the value of commercial real estate. As a test, they estimated the likely losses of each of the 100 largest companies in the event of a moderate or a severe economic downturn.
Assuming a ''moderate'' downturn, 18 would be at risk of insolvency, leaving state guarantee funds to pay policyholders about $3.1 billion. Under the ''severe'' projection, 34 companies might fail, with a total loss as high as $11.5 billion.
In a memo written at the request of John D. Dingell, chairman of a House committee that oversees financial industries, the American Council of Life Insurers disputes the assumptions behind the IDS analysis. Many of the junk bonds owned by insurers, the memo argues, are junk in name only; the corporations that borrowed the money are unlikely to default. And while the industry does indeed hold a lot of mortgages backed by sagging commercial real estate, much of its asset base is worth far more than book value.
 
Wholesale Bankruptcies Doubted
''We're not saying everything is rosy,'' said Henri Bersoux, a spokesman for the association. ''But it looks like it would require an unbelievably bad downturn'' to lead to wholesale bankruptcies.
Mr. Lennon largely concurs: ''You can't look at life insurers' assets without looking at their liabilities, too.'' In most cases, he points out, companies have years or decades to pay claims. It is true that insurers' ultimate ability to pay depends on the recovery of real estate values. But a permanent slide in real estate, he argues, ''is almost an Armageddon scenario.''
If some big life insurance companies were to fall, would consumers' savings fall with them? Most policyholders are protected by state guarantees: state insurance commissions would levy taxes on solvent insurance companies to make good the losses. But Mr. Sarfaty of the insurance guarantee group notes that there are significant holes in the safety net.
Some 45 states have guarantee funds. Two, California and Alaska, will have guarantee systems by January. But three other states - New Jersey, Colorado and Louisiana -and the District of Columbia have no guarantee funds. Residents of these states would have to depend on the guarantee funds in the failed insurers' home states. And in 27 of these states, the funds are not obliged to compensate nonresidents.
 
Insolvencies in the 80's
From January 1985 through September 1989, 62 life insurance companies were declared insolvent by state regulators, according to the American Council of Life Insurance. Compensation for policyholders depends on state regulations. ''The rules vary widely in terms of who is covered and to what extent,'' said Joseph M. Belth, a professor of insurance at the University of Indiana.
Guarantees in most states are limited to $300,000 in death benefits and $100,000 in cash value. And the prospects for pensioners whose security is based on guaranteed insurance contracts is even more problematic. Most state laws, Mr. Sarfaty points out, do not address the question of whether the pooled assets of individual pensioners are covered.
Ordinary ''defined benefit'' pensions, the kind in which a specific monthly check is guaranteed by the pension fund, are also protected by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a Federal agency. But those with insurance company-backed assets locked up in other sorts of retirement plans, notably ''401(k) salary reduction plans,'' would be left to make the case to state regulators.
Even the most pessimistic numbers suggest, however, that most policyholders would eventually get their money back. State funds typically have the right to assess up to 2 percent of insurers' revenues. In a pinch, IDS estimates, the states could raise about $4 billion annually - enough to cover the most severe projected losses in about three years.
But other damage related to a solvency crisis in the life insurance industry could not be so easily undone. A loss of confidence in the industry could lead to a flurry of policy redemptions, the insurance industry equivalent of a run on banks.
It is not as easy to withdraw money from an insurance policy or an annuity as it is to withdraw deposits from a bank; substantial penalties would give policyholders good reason to think twice. But Robert Litan, an economist at the Brookings Institution, argues that ''if you are really worried about solvency, you'd take the money out.''
Fiduciaries responsible for managing the guaranteed insurance contracts held by pension plans are more sophisticated investors, and presumably less likely to panic. But there are only modest rewards to pension managers who take a chance and win, while the penalty for guessing wrong with other peoples' money is often a flood of lawsuits.
The consequences of even a minor run on the liabilities of the life insurers could be devastating to the economy. The industry channels billions annually into corporate bonds and real estate. Without policy income, the flow would stop - or reverse.
The money previously going into insurance policies, Mr. Litan acknowledges, would not disappear unless total savings fell by the same amount. And eventually, one presumes, those corporations and builders would find alternate sources of capital.
But ''eventually'' could be a long time, Mr. Litan said.

GRAPHIC: Charts: High ratios of 'Junk', mortgages and real estate to net worth; Graph: Insurance industry's return on equity from '84 to '88 (Source: IDS Financial Services; The Insurance Forum newsletter) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (93%); C (BMV) (93%); 8710 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (93%); TRAVELERS CORP (91%); HEALTH & LIFE INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (55%); IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION LIFE INSURANCE (95%); INSURANCE (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); ANNUITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER TERRY LENNON (57%); 



330 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins's Troubles Are Tied To Aides' Conflicting Advice

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
When Mayor David N. Dinkins announced last week that he might have to lay off at least 15,000 city workers, his chief political aide and longtime adviser, Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch, learned that such a specific warning was in a news release only after it was issued.
If Mr. Lynch was in the dark, the municipal union leaders he helped marshal as campaign workers for Mr. Dinkins last year were incensed that they had not been notified in advance of the layoff warning, which was recommended to Mr. Dinkins by his Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, and First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel.
Those lapses, which occurred as the administration rushed to announce its plan, illustrate Mr. Dinkins's difficulties as he confronts New York City's deepening fiscal problems, beseiged with conflicting advice from outside critics and his own aides.
 
'Considerable Dissension'
Just days earlier, Mr. Dinkins had rejected the advice of Mr. Michael and Mr. Steisel when he agreed to grant teachers a 5.5 percent pay increase favored by Mr. Lynch and the city's Labor Relations Commissioner, Eric J. Schmertz.
''I think there's considerable dissension within the administration,'' said one senior city official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''Not over the facts of the fiscal situation, but they're disagreeing over how you react to it.'' 
''I think he's pretty good at taking advice,'' the official said of the Mayor. ''The guy listens, he probes. I don't think this was his problem.'' The official added that ''I think he was very ill served'' on the sudden layoff recommendation.
Generally, the Mayor's aides say, Mr. Dinkins sticks stubbornly to his own convictions, as he did when he refused to be rushed into hiring new police officers despite public clamor. But as he confronts an increasingly intense array of questions at once, aides say it is not clear who ultimately has the power to move the Mayor.
''Everybody has his ear,'' another senior aide said yesterday. ''He listens to everybody and then makes up his own mind.''
A mix of subtleties is at work. Mr. Dinkins is innately cautious and instinctively skeptical about dire budget warnings, though he has vowed repeatedly to keep his fiscal house in order. When he was the Manhattan Borough President, he, like his colleagues on the city's Board of Estimate, often complained that the Koch administration's budget office was hiding money from other officials.
 
Political Intimacy
There is also the interplay between the forcefulness and managerial experience of Mr. Steisel - a former City Sanitation Commissioner - and Mr. Lynch's political, though not personal, intimacy with the Mayor, coupled with Mr. Michael's detached approach to his job.
Mr. Lynch and Mr. Steisel, who did not know each other well but have developed a cordial relationship since Mr. Dinkins took office, both sought to play down any dissent yesterday.
Several mayoral aides and outside fiscal monitors said they saw Mr. Michael's harsh warning on layoffs as a move to buttress his credibility in light of the Mayor's rejection of his advice on the teachers' pact and to make tangible the quieter warnings he had been sounding for months.
Yesterday, after several published reports on the dispute over the labor settlement, Mr. Michael's office, which typically deals directly with reporters' questions, referred them to the Mayor's press office. Mr. Michael later returned a reporter's phone call. The Mayor's press secretary, Albert Scardino, said the new procedure was ''simply an effort to coordinate the flow of information at a time of very sensitive discussions.''
Unlike his predecessor as Budget Director, Paul Dickstein, who was a kind of surly genius of the Koch administration, crafting budget cuts and strategy with disarming bluntness, Mr. Michael has taken what he describes as a ''warmer, gentler'' approach. Mr. Steisel, himself an old budget hand, oversees much of the strategy.
 
Budget Gap Predictions
On the same day of the layoff warning, City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman was preparing to predict a possible $2.6 billion gap in the city budget for the fiscal year that starts next July -nearly twice Mr. Michael's estimate. She also called for a ''budget summit'' of city, union and business leaders to discuss how to handle the gap.
The specter of Ms. Holtzman's warning, several mayoral aides said, prompted them to move quickly to put out their own announcement of a hiring freeze and possible layoffs. As facsimiles of news-release drafts were sent between City Hall and Gracie Mansion, aides said, not everyone meeting at the mansion knew just what was included until after the release was issued from City Hall.
A day later, some senior officials were still puzzling over how and why the precise number 15,000 had made it into the announcement, one senior adviser acknowledged last night.
Instead of reassuring jittery fiscal monitors about the city's resolve, the layoff warning - coming as it did on the heels of the teachers' settlement and hundreds of millions of dollars in proposed new taxes to finance Mr. Dinkins's anti-crime plan - left an appearance of disarray and inconsistency.
Some senior city officials and outside fiscal experts said the budget aides received no new factual information last week to justify making such a dramatic warning then, as opposed to almost anytime over the last few weeks.
 
Based on Tax Receipts
Mr. Michael had said that he made the recommendation based on tax receipts for the quarter ended Sept. 30, which fell below expectations at an annual rate of $150 million.
But two days before his announcement, the City Finance Commissioner, Carol O'Cleireacain, said tax receipts were actually about on target. Mr. Michael later acknowledged that actual receipts were not so bad but that he had taken the opportunity to revise his economic forecasts for the future to take into account expected declines in the national economy.
In subtle ways, Mr. Dinkins has sought to distance himself from the layoff recommendation, issuing a news release noting that Mr. Michael had made the proposal, but declining to endorse or reject it without further study.
 
A 'Credit Watch'
On Tuesday, when the Standard & Poor's Corporation put the city's general-obligation bonds on a ''credit watch'' and threatened to lower its credit rating, Mr. Dinkins, at a news conference, repeatedly deferred comment on the move to his Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero. The Mayor came to the microphone to discuss it himself only in response to persistent questions.
Besides his own staff, Mr. Dinkins meets occasionally with a ''Council of Economic Advisers,'' which includes such leading business figures as David Rockefeller, the retired banker; Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier, and Lewis Rudin, the real-estate developer, but only one economist, Ms. O' Cleireacain.
The Mayor's aides concede that he rejected the consensus of this group that it would not be wise for him to seek special taxes to finance the hiring of police officers and that he should instead blend such an initiative into the rest of the budget. The aides said the Mayor did so because he believed taxes reserved for the police hiring would be more palatable.
But the taxes he proposed drew immediate criticism from state legislative leaders whose support would be necessary to pass them and whose assent the Mayor had not sought in advance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); CITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



331 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
A U.N. resolution condemning Israel for the deaths of at least 21 Arabs in Jerusalem appears closer to being formed after a policy shift by the Bush Administration. Page A1

 
News analysis: The U.S. backing of a U.N. resolution condemning Israel illuminates the strains on the U.S.-Israel bond resulting from Washington's need to maintain an Arab alliance against Iraq. A12

 
U.S. move in U.N. angers Jewish groups A12

Israel names panel to investigate killings A12

 
U.S. interests in the Middle East may be advanced in the short run because of the sweeping changes in the region, but may suffer over time, experts say. A14

 
Syria chief risks anger at home over policies A13

300 due in U.S. from Iraq on evacuation flight A13

Babylon's redevelopment is put on hold because of crisis A13

Soviets seek meeting of U.N. military committee A13

 
Japan's worst rioting in 20 years has exposed some of the stresses, conflicts and anti-social behavior underneath the nation's calm exterior. A1 
 
 
The husband of Benazir Bhutto was arrested in Karachi on charges of kidnapping a British businessman in April. The arrest is another blow against the former Prime Minister's campaign to regain her post. A5

 
Guerrillas in India burn train, killing 47, reports say A8

Indonesia military weighing its roles A15

 
A West German intelligence officer who used to run East German double agents has confessed to being a double agent himself, the Federal Prosecutor's Office announced. A9

 
The Italian Communist Party joined the political changes that have swept across Europe and gave itself a new name, a new symbol and, it hopes, a new chance to improve its sagging electoral fortunes. A3

 
Socialists ponder a changed world A3

 
21 South African political prisoners were released, and the African National Congress, while welcoming the move, responded by insisting that all political prisoners still behind bars be released immediately. A6

 
Rwandans report killings of suspected rebel sympathizers A7

In Guatemala, a taste for strongmen lingers A11

U.N. Journal: In a polygot place, a welcome voice A4

 
NATIONAL A16-26, D22-23
 
The White House reversed course again on tax policy, baffling the Congressional tax committees and leaving Congressional leaders confused about which way to turn. A1

 
News analysis: The explanations cited by politicians for the White House's stumbling include a White House staff with a weak political operation and no clear agenda, and a President more comfortable with foreign affairs than domestic. A1

 
Bush, despite rifts, campaigns for G.O.P. Senators D22

In a worried economy, impasse adds to unease D23

Lobbyists flock to Capitol to save their projects D23

Senate panel approves a major cut in AIDS relief D23

Senate kills Moynihan's plan to reduce social security D23

Congressional panel agrees on new curbs on car emissions A22

 
Puerto Rico would get the right to choose statehood, independence or a continuation of its commonwealth status under a bill passed by the House that calls for a referendum next year. A1

 
In San Juan, the question becomes when A18

 
The life insurance industry is suffering because of troubled investments, and analysts say that insurers may tighten the credit noose on businesses, deepening the now-likely recession. A1
 
Pennsylvania's gubernatorial race had promised to be full of interesting clashes with the candidates disagreeing on the abortion issue, but the conflicts have been tepid, with a stunning lack of depth. A16

 
The obscenity trial of the rap group 2 Live Crew has begun in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., with the defense challenging Florida's method of jury selection. A16

 
A major sex discrimination case came before the Supreme Court, which heard arguments on whether employers can legally exclude all fertile women from jobs involving exposure to substances likely to harm a developing fetus. A20

 
Final chapter in Milken inquir begins D1

Space shuttle back from near-flawless mission A22

Teamster chief won't seek re-election in '91 A26

Oklahoma City Journal: The police as truant officers A16

 
REGIONAL B1-9

 
The Mayor's list of pressing troubles may include disarray amid the ranks of his closest advisers, or so some recent developments seem to indicate. A1

 
Money for the new teachers' contract would be raised mostly from a pension change based on earnings projections that are unusually optimistic, experts said. B1

 
Two young men were arrested in the shooting of 10 people outside a Bronx housing project that stemmed from a ''territorial dispute'' between two groups of youths, the police said. B1

 
Havens for youths in anti-crime plan B3

 
Catherine of Braganza, the 17th-century Portuguese Princess who is noted, for, among other things, giving the borough of Queens its name, may be honored by the borough with a statue. B1

 
The Suffolk County Executive, Patrick G. Halpin, has dealt with a looming budget gap by ordering a mix of layoffs and service cuts. A vocal opposition has responded with a call for new taxes. B1

 
Long surveillance lead agents to $13 million tied to drugs B3

Three indicted in embezzling of public funds B5

Yale students to protest racist acts on campus B2

An engine out, New York's plane makes another sudden landing B2

For Cuomo bashing, just call 1-900-Rinfret B6

Kasparov defeats Karpov in 2d game B5

Love of chess lacking on TV networks B4

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
THE HOME SECTION
 
Baby things, $2.5 billion worth C1

Electronics Notebook: Remotes C1

For a short stay, white decor C1

Close to Home C2

Where to Find It C2

Currents C3

Bed sheets as masqueraders C7

Parent & Child C8

Preparing for winter: evergreens C10

Some odd fashion turns in Italy C12

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
Television's successful directors C17

A jazz fixture of no fixed style C21

Theater: A new look at Moliere's ''Miser'' C17

''About Time'' C18

Music: Czech Philharmonic C20

Word and Image: ''A Hole in the World,'' by Richard Rhodes C22

Sales of Trump's book fading C26

 
HEALTH PAGE B12
 
Personal Health
Study disputes coffee's tie to heart disease risk
Growing concern over pelvic infection in women
 
SPORTS
 
Baseball: Oakland takes pennant B13

Angry day for Red Sox B13

Pirates top Reds, trail by 3-2 B13

Column: Anderson on Clemens B13

Hockey: N.H.L. Notebook B17

Rangers beat Capitals B17

 
OBITUARIES D21
 
Irene Mayer Selznick, producer
Barbara Boggs Sigmund, Mayor of Princeton
Robert Francis Murphy, a professor of anthropology
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A24

 
Israel's second blunder
A tax cut that deserves to die
Underwriting Angola's agony
Topics: An idea with legs
 
LETTERS A24

 
Anna Quindlen: At the circus A25

William Safire: Of stones and walls A25

Jim Leach: Face up to the fairness issue A25

James O. Freedman: Bigoted students, doting adults A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); GERMANY (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (82%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); POLITICS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ARRESTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); LOBBYING (69%); RIOTS (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); TAX LAW (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); 

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%); 



332 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Socialists Ponder a Changed World

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

 BODY:
Buoyed by the collapse of one of its oldest foes, the Communist movement, but uncertain about its own role in the post-cold-war world, the Socialist International gathered in New York this week to set a course for the future.
It was one of the first public meetings of the International since Communist Governments fell in Eastern Europe in the last 12 months, and it was its first meeting in this country in more than a century.
Willy Brandt, the former West German Chancellor who has been president of the Socialist International since 1976, chaired the two-day meeting at the Waldorf-Astoria.
Mr. Brandt suggested that Socialism is a victim of semantics. ''Let's face it,'' he said, ''Socialism has been discredited by the mess created in the so-called 'socialist countries.' '' 
 
An Upbeat Mood
Even so, the mood at the two-day conference was upbeat. As Mr. Brandt noted, 28 nations in the world have Social Democratic governments or governments in which Social Democrats share power.
''Our traditional role has not changed,'' said Pierre Mauroy, former Prime Minister of France and First Secretary of the French Socialist Party. ''As the countries of Eastern Europe move towards a market economy, Social Democracy will continue to serve as a strong counter-balance to the excesses of laissez-faire.
''We are traditionally the third way, in between the totalitarian state and the unregulated free market,'' Mr. Mauroy said.
Before the meeting began, some Socialists expressed the concern that the collapse of state-run economies in Eastern Europe would discredit all Social Democrats.
''Although Europeans do make a distinction between Communism and Social Democracy, the collapse of the first and only socialist experiment in history will have long lasting repercussions on the Socialist movement as whole,'' said Hans Janitschek, a former general secretary of the Socialist International. ''It may, in fact, kill it altogether.''
 
Free of an Albatross
''On the contrary,'' said Cornel West, a member of the Democratic Socialists of America and a professor of religion at Princeton University.
''We no longer have this albatross on our backs,'' he said, referring to Communism. ''Our values can now be played out. We can begin to translate them into programs of action.''
The Socialist International traces its ancestry to the International Workingmen's Association, founded in 1864 in London by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. Deep divisions between Socialists and anarchists led to its dissolution 12 years later in Philadelphia. As Socialist parties gained strength in various European countries, they revived their organization as the Second International, founded in 1889 in Paris. It collapsed during World War I. In 1919, the Socialist International was again revived, while the Communists split away and founded the Third International, later known as the Comintern.
 
Old Concerns and New
The public sessions at the Waldorf, attended by some 300 delegates and observers from 100 countries, were taken up with discussions on traditional socialist concerns, such as bridging the gaps between rich and poor nations and disarmament.
But the conversations in the corridor dealt almost exclusively with the future of socialism in the wake of Communist collapse.
''Eastern Europe is not going to become part of the Western European Community,'' said Bogdan Denitch, leader of the Democratic Socialists of America. ''That's just an illusion. And the Socialist International is perfectly situated to mediate between the new groups forming in the East and West.''
''The failure of Communism is in some sense for us a victory,'' said Jean-Pierre Cot, a French Socialist and a leading Socialist in the European Parliament. ''We said for 70 years that there could be no socialism without democracy. Now we have to prove that what failed is Communism - not Social Democracy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL (93%); SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL (ORGN)

SUBJECT: SOCIALISM (THEORY AND PHILOSOPHY) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); WORLD WAR I (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J; BRANDT, WILLY WILLY BRANDT (92%); PIERRE MAUROY (55%); 



333 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Soviets Seek Meeting of U.N. Military Panel

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 10

 BODY:
The Soviet Union is seeking a meeting of the military chiefs of staff of the five World War II victors with permanent Security Council seats to discuss the Persian Gulf crisis, a senior Soviet diplomat says.
The official, Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir F. Petrovsky, said in an interview that Moscow wants to convene the United Nations Military Staff Committee at the chief of staff level for the first time in its history to review the gulf situation ''on the basis of existing Security Council resolutions.''
Mr. Petrovsky thus indicated that the purpose of such a high-level meeting would not be to plan any new military action against Iraq, adding that the United Nations Security Council should tighten existing economic sanctions further before it considers using force to end the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait. 
Instead, he said the chiefs of staff should review the military situation in the gulf, discuss options and consider the efforts many Western countries are making to enforce the Security Council's economic sanctions against Iraq by sending warships to search vessels suspected of breaking the trade embargo.
But he also made clear that his proposal is part of Moscow's longstanding campaign to revive this near moribund body, the duty of which is to advise the Security Council on military matters including the command and deployment of armed forces sent to enforce its orders.
''The machinery is there,'' he said. ''We have a chance for a breakthrough, to make the machinery work.''
For most of the 45-year history of the United Nations, cold-war tensions kept the Military Staff Committee paralyzed with the United States and the Soviet Union unable to agree on any joint role for their military forces within the United Nations context.
But since the gulf crisis began the Soviet Union has been pressing for its revival.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (93%); GULF STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL VLADIMIR F PETROVSKY (69%); 



334 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania Campaign Fizzles, but Not Quietly

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 10

 BODY:
At the outset, the race for Pennsylvania governor had promised to be an interesting, perhaps nasty, conflict between a tenacious incumbent and a fiery challenger whose views on abortion and taxes clashed not only with each other's but also with the traditions of their respective parties.
The two have exchanged barbed remarks, but the conflict has had a stunning lack of depth and drawn relatively little attention. Even the intensity of the abortion debate has faded, perhaps because almost a year has passed since the state adopted, and courts began reviewing, the nation's most restrictive law on late-term abortions.
Whatever tension there was in the campaign seemed to fizzle this week, when an independent poll, confirming earlier assessments, showed the Democratic incumbent, Gov. Robert P. Casey, ahead by a 3-to-1 margin, with a substantial amount of that support coming from Republican voters.
And on Tuesday night, in the campaign's first and probably only televised debate, Barbara Hafer, the Republican challenger who is state Auditor General, occasionally put the Governor on the defensive. But she won no decisive victory in what was widely seen as her best opportunity. 
 
Benefits From Television
''She needed to strike a body blow, and she didn't,'' Sandra Featherman, director of the Center for Public Policy at Temple University, said today.
But Dr. Michael L. Young, associate professor of politics and public affairs at Pennsylvania State University at Harrisburg, said Mrs. Hafer's cash-poor campaign benefited enormously from the 60 minutes of free air time. ''I think she will get some bump-up in the polls from the debate, but not as much as she would have if her performance had been more impressive or if the Governor's had been less impressive,'' he said.
The race, which started soon after the public debate over abortion peaked late last year, offered voters an off-beat choice between an anti-abortion Democrat, who frequently sounds former President Ronald Reagan's no-tax and all-is-well-and-getting-better themes, and a Republican who advocates a woman's right to abortion and sees social problems everywhere.
A good fight seemed in the offing. In one corner, the 58-year-old Governor, who has been seasoned by eight years' service as state Auditor General and three failed campaigns, dating back to 1966, for the governor's office. In 1986, he was elected Governor by a narrow margin. Some political analysts attribute his victory to a 30-second advertising spot that devastated his opponent, William W. Scranton 3d, then 39, son of the former Governor.
 
Skewered by a Sitar
The advertisement featured 15-year-old photographs of Mr. Scranton wearing a beard and shoulder-length hair and gazing intently at a popular guru from the 1960's. A narrator, speaking over sitar music, said, ''His only real job was lieutenant governor, and they gave him that because of his father's name.''
In the Republican corner, there is 46-year-old Mrs. Hafer, a robust, tough-talking woman who says she used to carry ''a little automatic handgun'' in her early career as a public health nurse and director of a center for victims of violent crime in the Pittsburgh area. She served as a county commissioner for five years there before being elected Auditor General in 1987.
Republican Party leaders drafted Mrs. Hafer to run for governor after other experienced Republicans in the state declined to take on Governor Casey, whose approval ratings have never dipped below 65 percent.
Mrs. Hafer got her campaign rolling in February by calling Governor Casey a ''redneck Irishman from Scranton'' and, after a series of prison riots, suggesting that he was afraid of dismissing the prison commissioner because he was black. She backed off a little -saying, for example, that she was part Irish herself. But the offhand remarks have haunted her campaign and become the foundation for criticism from the Casey campaign, political analysts and Republicans who oppose her stand on abortion.
 
Running on His Record
Governor Casey has quietly campaigned on his four-year record and is relying heavily on a $4 million advertising campaign. The television advertisements cite the Governor's programs for clean water, toxic waste, drug education and the state's selection by a small business magazine as the fourth-best managed in the nation.
Governor Casey opened the debate on Tuesday with a summary of his administration's accomplishments, including his claim to being Pennsylvania's first governor in 43 years not to raise taxes. The League of Women Voters sponsored the debate, and 324,000 households tuned in to it, more than for any other program in the time period, according to Arbitron, the ratings agency.
Mrs. Hafer's opening remarks were biting yet delivered in a tentative style, with a pause and an ''ah'' between every few words, as though she was not really committed to delivering the message. She repeatedly charged the Governor with dishonesty, saying he had a ''secret deal'' to bail out Philadelphia from its fiscal crisis, was running up a $1 billion state deficit and was planning to raise taxes to record heights next year.
Mrs. Hafer may have been most effective in speaking about abortion. ''This man would condemn women in Pennsylvania to going to the back alley and having an illegal abortion,'' she said, barking out the words. ''I was a public health nurse; I have held women in my arms that have died from botched abortions.''
 
Not Backing Down
Governor Casey denied all of her charges. But he did not back down from his strong anti-abortion position. He was asked whether he would sign a law, presuming it had the blessing of the United States Supreme Court, that banned all abortions and provided criminal penalties for doctors and hospitals that violated the law. ''If the legislature passed such a law and it had an exception for the health of the mother, I will sign it,'' he said.
Both politicians dodged a question about whether they would help Philadelphia ease its problems by granting the city authority to raise its own taxes. Philadelphia, which faces a $208 million deficit and is scheduled to run out of money on Dec. 1, presents a troublesome problem. Helping the city is not popular beyond the city's limits, but the largely Democratic city has a quarter of the state's Democratic votes.
Governor Casey restated his skepticism about the city's managment, saying the state would not help the city until the city provided ''hard numbers, audited figures we can rely on.'' He also said local officials would have to reach a consensus on how to solve the problems.
Many Republicans, especially conservatives, have refused to support Mrs. Hafer. She has been able to raise only $1.1 million this year, as against the $5.5 million Governor Casey has raised.
 
Poll Confirms Big Lead
All along, the Casey campaign has maintained that its surveys put the Governor 40 percentage points ahead of Mrs. Hafer, but it was not until Tuesday that an independent poll confirmed the wide lead, giving the Governor a 47-point margin.
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette conducted the survey last weekend. It was based on a representative sample of 719 Pennsylvanians who said they were registered to vote; the survey had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.
Voters also ranked the abortion issue below prison overcrowding, taxes. education and the economy, which was ranked the most important issue. Governor Casey outpolled Mrs. Hafer by huge margins among voters of both parties and in all demographic groups, except Jews, who favored Mrs. Hafer by a 2-to-1 margin.
Political analysts say that Jewish response could be explained by their support for her abortion views, but that the response is subject to a high margin of error since Jews represent only about 2.5 percent of the state's population and, thus, only about 18 of the survey's respondents.
''Hafer has run a weak campaign,'' said Dr. G. Terry Madonna, director of the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Millersville University in Lancaster. ''But, to be honest, she is running a race that probably could not have been won by anybody else.''
Dr. Madonna said taxes, the state economy or scandal have been the big issues in every campaign since 1954. ''What does Hafer have to exploit?'' he asked. ''A scandal-free administration? A soft economy? A budget that doesn't yet call for new taxes?''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania greeting his Republican challenger, Barbara Hafer, the state Auditor General, on Tuesday night in Philadelphia before their first televised debate of the campaign. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (88%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA

SUBJECT: DEBATING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: CASEY, ROBERT P (GOV); HAFER, BARBARA; HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



335 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Cut That Deserves to Die

 BODY:
President Bush's obsessive campaign to cut the capital gains tax may finally have been buried by his fellow Republicans.
He remains somewhere between flip and flop. First, he signaled Congress he would swallow a deficit reduction package that linked a higher income tax rate for the rich to a cut in the tax on capital gains. The concession sent the Democratic chairmen of the House and Senate tax-writing committees off to work out a detailed proposal. 
Then, only hours later and after heavy lobbying by House and Senate Republicans, Mr. Bush reversed himself by agreeing to no such deal. Yesterday he denied coming to any conclusion. Whatever the reason for the President's flipflops, the deal has been at least temporarily derailed. That's welcome because it would have wrecked the tax code and harmed the economy. It deserved to be buried, once and for all.
The idea looks equitable. Capital gains are overwhelmingly earned by families with annual incomes above $150,000. By raising the top income tax rate and cutting the tax on capital gains, the rich pay for their own tax shelter. But the appearance is deceiving. At tax rates close to the levels Congress has in mind, the wealthy would come out way ahead.
Fairness is not the only problem. The Bush Administration has persistently exaggerated the potential benefits of cutting the capital gains rate below 20 percent, contending that economic output would rise by $12 billion a year for the first five years. Frankly, a $12 billion boost to a $6 trillion economy doesn't amount to very much. But even $12 billion is a wildly inflated estimate.
Alan Auerbach, an economist at the University of Pennsylvania, provided Congress with compelling evidence that the Administration plan would cause output to rise by at most a billion a year and might well cause output to fall. A tax cut could spur the economy only if it led to increased rates of capital investment. And that would happen only if the tax cut caused savings to rise.
Yet the tax cut would not affect foreign investors or pension funds and other tax-exempt savers. So the entire burst of savings would have to come from domestic taxpayers who, according to Dr. Auerbach's estimate, would have to boost their savings by a preposterous 25 percent.
The Administration's case is weaker still. The tax cut would eventually widen the Federal deficit. That means saving would fall, dragging down investment and productivity.
The White House and its supporters have argued that a lower capital gains tax would free investors to sell old investments and reinvest. Maybe, but merely shuffling old assets creates nothing. In short, it is hard to take the Administration's claims seriously. If growth were really the goal, Mr. Bush would have restricted his proposed cut to new investment. By including old assets, he rewards his political supporters, not the economy.
The President scuttled the deal at least for now because of a benighted campaign pledge not to raise income taxes. Wrong reason. Right outcome.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EDITORIALS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PENSION FUNDS (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (61%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



336 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Gas-Electric Hybrid Cars Can Be Built Now;
For Health's Sake Too

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Natural Gas in Cars - and Step On It'' by Patrick McGeer and Enoch Durbin (Op Ed, Oct. 2) suggests using domestic natural gas to end our dependency on imported oil. The American Lung Association of Brooklyn supports switching fleets to natural gas for different reasons - those affecting human health. 
Lung diseases, ranked as the third most common cause of death, are still major destroyers of the human body. Convincing research demonstrates a connection between air pollution and upper-respiratory infections, including the common cold (the repeated assault of air contaminants on the body appear to weaken its defenses against germs).
A growing volume of research also points to a strong link between air pollution and the development of emphysema and lung cancer. During periods of elevated ozone concentrations, even healthy adults and children have exhibited impaired lung function after mild exercise.
We are pleased that New York City, following the example of Brooklyn Union Gas, is introducing natural-gas buses to replace the diesel buses that fill the air with some of the worst pollutants, including known carcinogens. New York has a network of streets and highways daily traversed by more than 5,000 diesel vehicles, spewing hazardous smoke into the lungs of defenseless victims. Certainly, a cleaner fuel can do more to protect the lung health of our residents than any rearrangement of traffic or construction of toll barriers to bridges, tunnels or the inner city.
Human health should be added to energy independence, the balance of payments, and the high cost of oil with inflation as a reason for a rapid switch from diesel and gasoline to clean, domestic natural gas for buses and automobiles.
 
CAROLE SNYDER
Executive Director, American
Lung Assn. of Brooklyn
 Brooklyn, Oct. 2, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letters

TICKER: BU (NYSE) (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN UNION GAS CO (58%); AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (58%); AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ENERGY EFFICIENCY; FUEL EFFICIENCY LETTERS & COMMENTS (91%); CANCER (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CARCINOGENS (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); COMMON COLD (75%); AIR POLLUTANTS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); LUNG CANCER (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 



337 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: China's Prime Minister Losing His Hold?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Further on Chen Jinhua, who replaced China's Prime Minister Li Peng as Minister of the State Commission for Restructuring the Economy (news article, Sept. 8): Mr. Chen has been president of the China National Petrochemical Corporation since 1983. In 1977 he was vice chairman of the Shanghai Revolutionary Committee, and from May 1979 to March 1983 deputy secretary of Shanghai's city government. In 1984 he was elected vice mayor to Jiang Zemin, now party general secretary.
Mr. Chen's replacement of Mr. Li symbolizes the increasing power of Mr. Jiang, whom Deng Xiaoping favors over the Prime Minister. Mr. Li probably owes his advancement to being the adopted son of Zhou Enlai. Since reviving the Chinese economy is now of prime importance, the replacement could indicate that Mr. Li's days as Prime Minister are numbered.
 
>SIMON P. J. >CHEN
 Cleveland Heights, Ohio, Sept. 21, 1990
The writer is Asian studies librarian at Cleveland State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); EAST CHINA (91%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); WRITERS (73%); CITIES (70%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (64%); 

PERSON: LI PENG (74%); JIANG ZEMIN (57%); DENG XIAOPING (57%); 



338 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Face Up to the Fairness Issue

BYLINE: By Jim Leach; Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, is a member of the House Banking Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The American people voted in 1988 for a reduction in the rate of growth of government and taxes. They did not vote to mortgage their future to the whims of undisciplined politicians. They did not vote for ostrich politics and depression-inducing economics.
At the root of the constitutional crisis that is gripping Congress is a new ''duck test'' on fairness. While conservatives object to anything that quacks like a tax, liberals sense the outrage of the public and demand sacrifices from the wealthy in any package that cuts benefits for the poor. 
In a Congress of little leadership and less followership, the left and right are mugging the middle, raising the question whether the center can hold, whether government can govern.
Amid the questions of fairness that arose over the details of the budget package, largely overlooked were the unfair consequences that would result if Congress failed to enact a deficit reduction package.
Would it be fair, for instance, to the young of America to add $300 billion to the national debt?
Would it be fair to the elderly who would have to pay more for food and medicine because of a refusal of Congress to curb inflation?
Would it be fair to taxpayers who would have to pay more for nothing, that is, interest on the national debt?
In the savings and loan debacle, Congress learned that refusal to deal with insolvency problems early cost far more later. The same with budget deficits. The fairest budget of all would appear to be a balanced one.
Twelve-figure deficits simply have no place on the economic agenda of either a true liberal or a true conservative. Just as it is counterfeit liberalism to devalue the currency with living-for-the-moment spending, it is counterfeit conservatism to object to deficit reduction of the nature contemplated in the bipartisan package.
Ironically, by refusing to engage constructively in the budget negotiations and objecting bellicosely to the initial agreement, conservatives opted out of the governing coalition and ceded their seats at the bargaining table to their adversaries. Their ideological rejection of the initial package may have been good short-term politics, but it guaranteed the passage of a more liberal alternative, jeopardizing the Reagan revolution.
By refusing to contemplate a change in the tax code to put high-income citizens in the same tax bracket as middle-class taxpayers (breaking the so-called ''bubble''), even in exchange for capital gains reform, Congressional Republicans ignore at their peril the frustrated demands for fairer burden sharing by low- and middle-income Americans on whom they depend for support. Naively, White House operatives left the President vulnerable to the fairness challenge by standing stubbornly by the views of legislators who would not stand by the President.
Given conservative obduracy and the resulting political gridlock, the President has little choice but to seek a governing coalition with the Democrats in Congress, one in which centrist Republicans can be utilized to avoid a stampede to the left. A center-Democrat coalition has the potential to save Republicans from themselves on fairness issues, even though it could lead to a deficit package with fewer new tax deductions and slightly greater spending authorizations.
The internal priorities of a five-year, $500 billion deficit reduction package are less important than its framework. The country cannot stand the panic that would follow a significant rundown in the stock market, run-away from Treasury bills and runup of interest rates.
Deficits of the current gargantuan magnitude are sinkholes in the road to economic recovery. They jeopardize the President's program and the Presidency itself.
Credible deficit reduction can only be achieved if the politics of fear give way to the recognition that what is micro-politically jeopardizing for individual politicians is macro-economically sound for the country; if liberals develop a functioning spleen to go with their heart; if conservatives reflect a greater judgment and sense of equity to temper their convictions.
Me-generation citizens cannot afford me-generation politicians.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); CURRENCIES (63%); DEVALUATION (50%); 

PERSON: LEACH, JIM (REPR) RONALD REAGAN (52%); 



339 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC & PRIVATE;
At the Circus

BYLINE: By Anna Quindlen

 BODY:
Not since the tall ships has there been national esprit as great as that inspired by the budget negotiations. In bank lines, drugstores, supermarkets and parking lots Americans have gathered in a spirit of grand unanimity to discuss the possibility that the people who run the Government are completely out to lunch.
Some of this public sentiment is due to the technological advances afforded by cable television, which enable us to watch actual deliberations on the House and Senate floor and to see that the average debate in Congress bears a remarkable resemblance to a kindergarten classroom when the teacher has been called away.
The people have realized the dirty little secret of those of us in journalism: that by distilling public officials to one sound bite, one quote, we made them look like ringmasters when so many of them were actually clowns. 
Some have found this entire spectacle entertaining, and some have found it disgusting, and some have found it entertaining and disgusting at the same time, not unlike watching the Red Sox choke yet again in the playoffs. The lines between children's television and the Federal Government are blurred. Are John Sununu, Newt Gingrich and Marlin Fitzwater real people, or are they cartoon characters? If they are real, why do they have those names? And if people get the government they deserve, are we all Mickey Mouse?
Many of us might never have noticed the budget negotiations until we picked up our paychecks, looked at the revised amount, and said, ''Well, there go the car payments.'' But closing the Statue of Liberty, the Washington Monument and the Grand Canyon sent a signal that we had better listen up. And when we did we realized it was the end of an era. For 10 years we have been living with the big lie, the lie that we know so well because we have told it ourselves. The check is in the mail. Finally the bill has come due. ''You can fool all the people all the time if the advertising is right and the budget is big enough,'' the movie producer Joseph E. Levine once said. There is no evidence that he was speaking of Ronald Reagan, but if the quote fits, share it.
The people have had their own convictions about all of this, which is more than you can say for Congress. The people like the idea of taxing those with more money at a higher rate. (The President went for the idea for about a half-hour the other day, but then Republicans came to call and he backed off. There are more waffles in Washington this week than there are at the House of Pancakes.) The New York Times took a poll, and a whopping 87 percent of those surveyed said that people making over $100,000 should pay more in taxes. Shall we all guess how much money those respondents make? The defense budget also seems vulnerable. It has heretofore stood for our belief in ourselves as a macho, hairy-chested kind of country. But since we discovered that the Soviet Union is a third-world nation that cannot even manage to beat its plowshares into plowshares, and since we have learned that the Defense Department has been known to spend $27.50 on such items as paper clips, hairy-chestedness has ebbed somewhat as a national priority.
These two things won't be enough to put a dent in the deficit, and we've always known it. Some of us will grouse about entitlement programs, until we realize that entitlements include things we like, like Social Security. Some of us will grouse about welfare; like a company mounting a recall, the Government of the 1980's spent a lot of time teaching us to trash its wares. All decade long, there was a free-association test. Welfare . . . cheat. Trickle . . . down. Free . . . market. Tax . . . cuts.
Everybody flunked. We just didn't know it until now, when we are no longer under the voodoo-economics spell of an avuncular, folksy, not terribly bright guy who only said the nation's finances were in a helluva mess when he thought the microphone was turned off.
As so often happens, the bill comes due at the worst possible time: when our homes are devalued, when filling our gas tanks and grabbing a burger is an either/or proposition, when beef is a luxury item. Deep in our hearts we knew that the cuts would someday be deep and the cost high. But we figured the guys in Washington had a plan. Until we saw them on television and couldn't tell them from Yogi Bear and Boo Boo. Until we tried to take our kids to the Smithsonian one Saturday and discovered that the only dinosaurs you could see in town were the ones at the Capitol.
At least it's brought us together.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION BUDGETS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (76%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); 

PERSON: QUINDLEN, ANNA RONALD REAGAN (63%); JOHN SUNUNU (56%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); 



340 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 17, Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: PRO HOCKEY;
Expansion Too Pricey for Some

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
When Milwaukee withdrew its application for a National Hockey League expansion franchise this week, nine groups in eight cities were left vying for the six remaining openings.
Lloyd Pettit, who headed the Milwaukee bid, said it was ''not economically plausible'' to begin a business with a $50 million entry fee and a roster of castoffs from other teams.
''We just recognized that it was an impossible thing,'' he said, adding that a realistic entry fee would be closer to the $31.5 million purchase price of the Minnesota North Stars, who were sold last spring.
At least one other applicant, a group that hopes to put a team in the Suncoast Dome in St. Petersburg, Fla., said it could make a profit, even with a $50 million entry fee. 
''We looked at the guidelines of the N.H.L. and we used them in our negotiations with the Suncoast Dome,'' said Jim Rutherford, director of hockey operations for the St. Petersburg group. ''We came out with a lease that is favorable and we can make the numbers work at $50 million.
''We're in a market, an on-tap market, which we feel can be very successful. Not only is it heavily populated and a good TV market, you really don't have a lot to compete for for the entertainment dollar. TV is very important to make the numbers work. We're looking at a local and state TV package.''
The league's board of governors is expected to award at least two franchises at its December meeting. The league last winter announced plans to expand from 21 to 28 teams in the 1990's. The first franchise, in San Jose, Calif., went to George and Gordon Gund, who had threatened to move the Minnesota North Stars there last winter.
Instead of moving, they sold the Minnesota team and will draft 30 young players from the North Stars organization after this season. (The new Minnesota owner, Norman Green, has called the arrangement ''a screwy deal'' and said he would fight it.) Rutherford said there were ''20,000 ideal hockey seats'' in the Suncoast Dome, which was built for baseball.
 
Concerns About Drug Policy
Bob Goodenow, the new deputy executive director of the N.H.L. Players Association, began his fall tour of league teams this week to hear opinions from his members.
Goodenow, in Detroit on Tuesday and in Chicago yesterday, said he ''will be traveling five days a week for the next three or four weeks.''
He may hear a rising chorus of opinions concerning the league's drug policy. Influential players like Doug Wilson of Chicago have voiced concern about the current policy, which allows John Ziegler, the league president, to evaluate all cases and hand down all punishment. Ziegler recently suspended Grant Fuhr, the Edmonton goalie, for one year after Fuhr admitted using cocaine in the past.
''They see what can happen to players under different circumstances,'' Goodenow said. ''They are all wondering and trying themselves to logically rationalize the whole thing. You get different opinions.''
The issue might be a major one in negotiations for a new contract. The present agreement ends after this season. Goodenow is the current deputy and future successor to Alan Eagleson, who is serving his last season as executive director. But Goodenow stressed that he, not Eagleson, would lead the next negotiations.
''I am negotiating the contract,'' he said. ''Alan is not. That's what they hired me to do.''
 
New Idea in Minnesota
In Minnesota, where fewer than 6,000 customers attended each of the first two home games, some interesting ticket and crowd-control policies have been instituted by the North Stars' Green. For instance: If you wish to sit near the ice and between the blue lines, you can buy a season ticket, with each game's seat costing $28.50.
But if you wish to attend a single game and sit in those same sections, each seat will cost $50 per game.
Green has said he expects to turn North Stars tickets into prestigious commodities in a year or two. He has said he wants the best seats filled with people in suits and ties.
He has discontinued many giveaways and discounts on tickets because, he said, they often fell into the hands of ''drunks'' who would sit near paying customers and offend them.
On the scoreboard above center ice, an electronic message board warns the Met Center fans: ''DON'T USE ABUSIVE LANGUAGE.'' (What if Green had bought the Rangers and tried these things at Madison Square Garden?) Other messages ask fans not to come and go from their seats unless play has stopped.
Such civility is common in the buildings of Canadian cities, which make up one-third of the 21-team league. Green, for the past 10 years, owned 18 percent of the Calgary Flames.
 
LaFontaine Update
Don Meehan, agent for Pat LaFontaine of the Islanders, said yesterday that he had ''heard nothing'' from Bill Torrey, the team's general manager, on a proposed contract re-negotiation. LaFontaine, who is making $425,000 this season, wants a new pact at a considerably higher salary.
''I would expect they know and understand and appreciate what he means to the team,'' Meehan said. ''If they understand and appreciate his value and presence on the team, they know where we stand. It's up to them.''
LaFontaine left the team for the final two exhibition games, but returned, he said, out of a sense of obligation and loyalty. Meehan said LaFontaine didn't want to withhold his services during the season because he didn't want to harm the team or his reputation. That would seem to leave him with little leverage. His salary is less than half the going rate for players of his caliber.
Asked if he finds the Islanders' stance frustrating, Meehan said: ''Yes, very much so. And so does Pat.''
Torrey said last weekend that he expected to speak with Meehan about LaFontaine early this week. Torrey couldn't be reached for comment yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); DALLAS STARS (92%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); MINNESOTA NORTH STARS (57%); MINNESOTA NORTH STARS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; FRANCHISES WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); BASEBALL (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); DRUG POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



341 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 2; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: It's a Boy! It's a Girl! It's Time To Shop

BYLINE: By CAROL LAWSON

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
CONSIDER the newborn infant. So small. So wrinkled. Above all, so helpless.
But not for long. Not with a nearly $2.5 billion industry of home furnishings and other products ready to serve and soothe Baby around the clock, whether asleep or awake, feeding or fussing.
For example: the modern baby can ride in a stroller bright enough to be spotted in a gale at sea, travel in a cushioned carrier that looks like a gigantic running shoe, wear diapers that resemble zebra skins, drink from bottles tinted to match any outfit and sleep on sheets that are a forest of grinning animals. Also, Baby can race through the house in a walker that is a turtle on wheels, gaze at a crib mobile that is a ripe banana tree, lounge on the beach in a cabana of mosquito netting, suck on a pacifier that looks like Dumbo and eat with a bib that reminds elders that ''Spit Happens.'' 
These possibilities and more were on display here last week at the annual Juvenile Products Show. The merchandise, which filled five floors of the vast Apparel Mart, the length of several city blocks, was testimony to the consumption that attends childbirth in much of America today. It suggested that a doctor who informs a patient that a pregnancy report is positive may as well add, ''Congratulations, it's time to go shopping.''
The show's sponsor, the Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association, was optimistic about business, even though much of the rest of American industry is going through a difficult period. The juvenile-products industry, which reported a 16 percent increase in sales last year, is ''driven by the new baby boom in the United States,'' said Doug Dolansky, president of the association. There were 4 million births last year, the most in 25 years. Mr. Dolansky said the rate was expected to remain steady for most of the decade.
Also cheering the industry is the fact that 40 percent of new babies are born today to first-time parents, prime customers for the awesome array of infant paraphernalia. Mr. Dolansky predicted that ''a high percentage of total industry sales will continue to be lavished on these first-birth children.''
But not everyone here was convinced that the industry is immune to the spreading downturn in the economy. Some manufacturers said they thought buyers were more cautious than usual and were doing more looking than ordering.
The juvenile-products industry consists of home furnishings, accessories and personal care items for children up to the age of 4, but it is estimated that sales of infant products account for at least 70 percent of its business. It is an industry that thrives on planned obsolescence and the innocence of its customers: parents-to-be who happily spend $500 for an Italian stroller or $200 for a Japanese high chair have no idea that by the time Baby reaches the ageof 2, she will probably refuse to sit in them.
For the 3,000 American and foreign buyers who converged on this city of tall glass buildings and arctic air-conditioning, the news of the industry was twofold: color and diapers. This could be the year when Baby sees red. Red was everywhere, from strollers, cribs and bedding to feeding accessories and pacifiers. Neon shades of orange, green and pink also made a strong showing, especially for strollers.
As for diapers, the growing popularity of cloth was much in evidence. Of the 287 manufacturers who showed their wares, 14 produced cloth diapers or decorative covers for them. Until quite recently, the popularity of the disposable diaper, introduced nearly 30 years ago, made the cloth diaper nearly obsolete. But as environmentalists have spread the message that disposables will clog landfills for generations to come, cloth has staged a comeback.
The new cloth diaper bears no resemblance to the flat piece of fabric that bundled earlier bottoms. Today's diaper, 100 percent cotton, has elastic around the legs and Velcro closures - and no more pins.
Moreover, a whole new industry has sprung up to cover cloth diapers, to give Baby what manufacturers call a ''fashion forward'' look. Nylon diaper covers come in a rainbow of solid colors, and there are prints, too: clowns, cows jumping over the moon, zebra stripes, leopard spots, flowers, pinstripes, trains, neon polka dots.
This emphasis on color and pattern has spread throughout the industry, even to strollers and car seats. Strollers, once a basic blue or gray, are now anything but. Today, Baby can ride in a carriage of stripes, polka dots or African prints, as well as just about any solid color.
Hundreds of different strollers were on display. Manufacturers said styles had proliferated to meet the needs of the typical two-stroller family: a sturdy model to push Baby down city streets and a lightweight style for travel. And for parents of twins or triplets, there is an array of stretch strollers.
Ira Hymen, the owner of two Bellini stores in Chicago and Glenview, Ill., said the new red strollers would appeal to his customers, who typically spend at least $3,000 to equip and outfit an infant. ''They want things that are bright and showy,'' he said.
David Schweig, owner of Sunnyland Furniture in Dallas, said his customers, too, wanted ''lots of bright colors.'' But he predicted that strollers covered with polka dots or stripes will also be popular.
Car seats, too, have broken out of basic dullness and are being manufactured in a variety of colors. Renolux introduced a model covered with fabric resembling an abstract Jackson Pollock painting. And Century unveiled a cream-colored leather car seat ''for the parent who has everything.'' Cleaning instructions were not attached.
As for cribs, which remain predominantly white, the Italian influence has taken hold throughout the industry. Plain, boxy cribs are disappearing. The new shape has soaring arches spanning each end. These Euro-cribs, which can sell for as much as $700, do not come with warning labels: when Baby starts teething, the glossy finish will be dotted with bite marks. For children who have outgrown the crib, there are high-octane fantasy beds. One is a black sports car with working head and tail lights. It will sell for $499. Another bed, which will sell for at least $1,200, looks like a red 18-wheel tractor-trailer. It makes a loud groaning sound when the engine is turned on, and it has a horn that screams ''Beep! Beep!'' ''This is going to drive parents crazy,'' a buyer remarked. Loren Anderson, products manager of Playnix Inc., the manufacturer, did not blink. ''Don't all kids' toys drive parents crazy?'' he replied.
A new category of furniture was the transitional bed for toddlers. It looks like a twin bed but is the size of a crib. Manufacturers hope to attract parents who live in tight quarters.
Other than beds, there was little furniture innovation on display. One exception was a wooden play table and chairs developed by the Viennese architect E. Warlamis. The furniture, in red, green and yellow, is covered with numerous pegs and grooves. Children can create a universe of their imagination by inserting an accompanying set of wooden toys that look like trees, castles and birds.
The exhibitors were a mix of large, nationally known manufacturers and mom-and-pop operations. While the former unveiled products that were developed through laboratory research and information gleaned from focus groups, the latter introduced products that came out of their own needs and experiences as parents. Their test markets were their own children.
Jamie Leach, for example, is a registered nurse who saw a need for a better baby bottle. Her new Genesis collection consists of bottles that are imprinted with useful information for parents, like instructions for performing cardio-pulmonary resuscitation and the month-by-month developmental stages of a normal baby.
Susan Matthews, a former advertising executive, displayed her new Boppy Pillow Pal, a firm round play pillow for infants. Inspiration struck when her own infant was in a day-care center.
Jacob Feinzilberg, formerly a producer of television movies, wanted to work in ''a kinder and gentler industry.''
So he invented the portable Inflate-a-Potty, which can be used in the car. The picture of the crying child on the box is his daughter, who says in big letters, ''I need to go NOW.''
Joe Swan, a buyer from Luton, England, stared and shook his head. ''I can't believe it,'' he said. Parents are not the only customers in the industry's line of vision. That is what Steve Fox, vice president of the Baby Shop in Severna Park, Md., was thinking when he examined a blue floor mat shaped like a bear. Its box described it as an ''educational play mat.'' Mr. Fox was not convinced, but he liked it anyway.
''It has absolutely no value whatever,'' he said. ''But it looks cute. It's something that grandma would buy.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A cushioned infant carrier, which looks like a gigantic running shoe, is made by the Newborne Company.; Juvenile Products Show displayed accessories like this house-shaped floor lamp made by Fun Furniture.; Renolux introduced a car seat covered with fabric resembling a Jackson Pollock painting.; Susan Matthews with her new Boppy Pillow Pal, a firm round play pillow for infants.; (Photographs by John Berry for The New York Times) (pg. C1); An emphasis on color and pattern extends to strollers. This one in neon print is made by Century.; A wooden play table set, by the architect E. Warlamis, is covered with pegs and grooves.; Jamie Leach produces baby bottles imprinted with useful information, like first-aid instructions.; A bed that looks like a sleek black sports car complete

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (55%); 

SUBJECT: BABIES; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); BABY PRODUCTS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); BEACHES (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); PARENTING (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); 

PERSON: LAWSON, CAROL DOUG DOLANSKY (67%); 



342 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 2; Home Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Surviving a Short Stay: White Decor Helps

BYLINE: By SUZANNE SLESIN

 BODY:
SOME people have trouble moving from one place to another. Others can pick up, reorganize and move all their belongings to a new location with very little effort.
Definitely of the second persuasion are Peri Wolfman and the photographer Charles Gold, who are partners in Wolfman-Gold and Good Company, the home furnishings store in SoHo. The all-white esthetic that Ms. Wolfman is well-known for in design circles has, time and again, made the move easier. 
''I've moved a lot in my life,'' she said, ''but I never redecorate. White has always come through for me. It provides me with a really quiet environment - something I need in New York because it's such a pressured place.''
With a few broad strokes - stripped pine, exotic bunches of dried flowers and lots of white, of course - Ms. Wolfman seems able to create an established feeling of home in the time it might take others to take a long walk around the block.
''I don't waste time over decorating,'' Ms. Wolfman said. ''And I don't suffer about it. For me, it's boom, boom, and it's done.''
A few months ago, Mr. Gold and Ms. Wolfman sold the large Gramercy Park apartment they had had for 10 years. ''Because of the vagaries of the real-estate market, we decided to make a temporary move, thinking that we might eventually move out of the city altogether,'' Ms. Wolfman said.
They decided to become renters. ''I see the move as a sabbatical,'' she said. She had to find a space that would be large enough to accommodate ''very, very big furniture,'' as well as the comings and goings of the couple's four children, who are in their 20's.
Ms. Wolfman looked at 35 apartments, taking one with 18-foot-high ceilings and a mezzanine, near the store. The 2,500-square-foot apartment has two bedrooms and a small den. The view is not dramatic, but offers what Ms. Wolfman calls ''an interesting cityscape.'' There is good light, and of course the walls were in her one and only shade: white.
An enviable assortment of copper pots, which had no place in the small kitchen, were the only items to go into storage. To Ms. Wolfman's relief, her new home could accommodate her armoires, including a seven-foot-high French fruitwood armoire.
''An antique, but not a Louis,'' she said. ''That one and some of the others have moved from Westchester to San Francisco and then to New York.
''I could have put some of them away in storage,'' she continued, ''but I really wanted to bring it all together in one place. These things represent a lifetime of homemaking.''
Large mirrors are also important to her. An English over-mantel pine mirror from the 1880's hangs over one of the sofas and reflects the windows. A pair of long mirrors lean informally against the wall. ''I had those made because I didn't want to buy anything expensive, and I felt I needed them for some of the blank space,'' she said.
Before moving, Ms. Wolfman and Mr. Gold did get rid of anything they ''didn't like a teeny-weeny bit,'' she said, including ''the clutter of 10 years: magazines and clothes and about 100 pairs of shoes that I kept in wicker baskets.''
The apartment seemed made for them. The bathrooms were outfitted with old-fashioned white sinks and white tile. The small kitchen was also all white. ''I didn't think everything would fit in here,'' Ms. Wolfman said, ''but once in place, we realized that we had to buy more furniture.''
To her, that meant finding benches, one of her ad hoc solutions for bookcases and side and hall tables. Ms. Wolfman creates still-lifes on them: a leaning mirror, a birdhouse, a basket, a family photograph.
She stacks dozens of books on long low benches and places one bench atop the other.
''We don't have bookcases and didn't want to build anything in,'' she said. ''With benches, all you have to so is find the right size and color.''
To furnish the small den, she bought two large old-fashioned armchairs and ottomans upholstered in dark-green cotton. ''Quite dogproof,'' Ms. Wolfman said, an important feature because of the couple's Tibetan terriers, Daisy and Rose. ''I guess that makes this apartment a lot less white than the previous one.''
The two chairs face a space for the television set and stereo equipment. A small chest, two benches and a trunk were added; a painted door was propped against the wall, a sort of free-standing artwork, and the room was complete.
Over the years, Ms. Wolfman has learned a few lessons about living in an essentially all-white space. ''I moved here from California with white canvas chairs,'' she said. ''A few small spots, and they were done.'' That was when she started throwing more durable fabric, like movers' blankets, over her furniture.
The terriers put the white decor to the test. ''I decided early on to simply cover the sofas with Marseilles bedspreads,'' Ms. Wolfman said. ''It may sound stupid to have the dogs all over the white covers, but we just wash them all once a week.''
Ms. Wolfman did deviate from her usual all-cotton preference by using polyester for the flowing draperies on the 15-foot-high windows. ''Spending $500 for the fabric was our biggest expense,'' Ms. Wolfman said.
One of the big differences in their new apartment is the kitchen, which is much smaller and did not come with what had been Mr. Gold's favorite piece of equipment, a restaurant range. ''He stopped cooking,'' Ms. Wolfman said. ''He lost 25 pounds and I lost 11, and we eat out a lot.
''Some things turn out all for the better.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Peri Wolfman and Charles Gold's high-ceilinged living room, washable white Marseilles bedspreads are thrown over the sofas. (pg. C1); A long bench is an easy, temporary and economical alternative to built-in bookcases.; Peri Wolfman and Charles Gold lost weight because of their new, smaller kitchen.; A large mirror, family photographs and the requisite birdhouse are assembled on a high bench in the foyer.; Often-used glasses and china are kept in an English pine country cupboard near the dining table.; Tibetan terriers Daisy and Rose are allowed on the furniture. The over-mantel mirror is English. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); TIBET (59%); CHINA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOLFMAN GOLD & GOOD

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN RELOCATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); 

PERSON: SLESIN, SUZANNE PERI WOLFMAN (95%); CHARLES GOLD (55%); 



343 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 21, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: A Jazz Fixture of No Fixed Style

BYLINE: By PETER WATROUS

 BODY:
If American culture has promised anything, it is diversity, and Muhal Richard Abrams has always taken advantage of America's palate.
Mr. Abrams, who is performing his music with the American Jazz Orchestra tonight at Cooper Union, is one of the most resourceful composers working in America. A typical orchestral concert of his moves easily from dense and luxurious Ellingtonian harmonies to spikey Bartokian flourishes to deep Chicago blues. At its best, his music is a thrilling vision of democratic possibility. It's exciting and it's slippery, unwilling to settle down into the familiar. 
''American musicians are lucky,'' Mr. Abrams said in a recent interview. ''We can tap into so much raw music material. If I write something in what is called the European classical tradition, I'm comfortable doing it as long as I personalize it, just like when I write something in the jazz tradition. All of these different musical styles make up the world of music, and I feel free to deal with the world of music. Music is about bringing great colors and great moments and great music to an audience. It is about erasing all the labels and divisions people pick up on.''
 
Staying Out of Pigeonholes
Mr. Abrams has a right to complain about labels. At the age of 60, he has avoided being labeled as the most important inheritor of the big band tradition and he has also avoided taking his place in the contemporary concert system in America. There is no place for somebody who walks carefully between the two worlds; jazz fans, especially in an orthodox age, are suspect of his eclecticism, and his jazz tendencies don't let him fit into the European mold.
But Mr. Abrams has the credentials. As a young graduate of the Chicago Musical College in the late 1940's, he was one of the city's top be-bop pianists, playing with Miles Davis, Sonny Rollins, Max Roach and others. He arranged for several big bands, then in 1962 founded the Experimental Band; three years later he formed the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians, a cooperative that influenced the vanguard of jazz for a decade through musicians and groups, including the Art Ensemble of Chicago, Lester Bowie, Anthony Braxton, Chico Freeman and George Lewis. And all the while he was studying the European tradition.
''His music covers an incredible spectrum, and he's come up with startling original music,'' said the saxophonist Marty Ehrlich, who will be playing in the American Jazz Orchestra and has performed and recorded with Mr. Abrams for most of the decade. ''And he has really great craft in so many musical languages. I don't know anybody who has that combination in the way he does. I think there have been times where he doesn't fall into any one camp. He's a master of so many traditional languages. Which has been a problem in the way he's been received. Because he always works from inside the language instead of just using a surface, he can't appeal to the Downtown post-modern college style, and because his range is so broad, he alienates traditional jazz fans. And that has probably confused people.''
 
A Broad Range in Age
Mr. Abrams's music will be played by the American Jazz Orchestra, a repertory group that has helped legitimatize jazz as repertory music over the last five years. The band has a broad range in both age and culture, moving from Mr. Ehrlich, who is equally at home in contemporary music and various jazz and jazz-related music, to Benny Powell, the great trombonist known primarily for his association with the Count Basie Orchestra.
''I love playing with this band,'' said Mr. Abrams. ''There's so much depth to it. When you get somebody like Danny Banks on baritone saxophone, he's worked with so many big bands that there's a real level of profundity to his playing. And since I'm such a disciplinarian, I feel that what I'm doing, for the younger musicians, is providing them with a foundation that for economic reasons, they don't get anymore.''
Mr. Abrams will be performing two different sets of music, ''The Hearinga Suite,'' a brilliant piece of music recently released on the Italian Black Saint label, and a set of pieces that he wrote for a performance keyed to his acceptance of the Danish Jazzpaar prize. On ''The Hearinga Suite,'' the big band tears through march cadences only to segue into hard-swinging, swirling big band writing that clears the way to incisive solos. Slow, pensive sections come up against straight-ahead swinging, and the music resonates with possiblities. It is accessible music that belies the tired avant-garde label Mr. Abrams has toiled under for the last 25 years.
''People are still using the term avant-garde, which is frightening,'' said Mr. Abrams. ''What can be avant-garde today, with so much different artistic activity going on around us? I think the term has alienated an audience unfairly. I'm an American musician playing music that comes naturally as an American. I don't need any labels.
''America has still a great potential for being a great country, especially through the arts. Look at the influence the arts from here, music in particular, has had on the world - just the appeal of it shows its power. America set the world dancing a different dance, singing a different tune. It has produced art which is inclusive, and if anybody tries to deny me my rights, I don't even bother with them.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muhal Richard Abrams, who will perform tonight at Cooper Union. (David Gahr, 1983)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; JAZZ JAZZ & BLUES (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSIC GENRES (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: WATROUS, PETER; ABRAMS, MUHAL RICHARD RICHARD ABRAMS (96%); 



344 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
The White House reversed course again on tax policy, baffling the Congressional tax committees and leaving Congressional leaders confused about which way to turn. [Page A1.] The budget stalemate is worsening the economic slump and increasing the chances of another jolt to the financial markets, analysts say. [D23.] 
Life insurers are the focus of the latest anxiety as real estate values go downhill and banks nationwide struggle to avoid being buried in the slide. [A1.]
The final chapter in the investigation of Michael R. Milken begins today with the former financier and Government prosecutors confronting a crucial question: Were his crimes part of a wide scheme to manipulate markets illegally for his own gain? [D1.]
The House failed to overturn Bush's veto of a bill cutting imports of textiles, apparel and shoes. [D2.]
New Administration projections show the fund insuring bank deposits shrinking to less than half its current size within three years. [D2.]
The Supreme Court is weighing whether employers can exclude fertile women from jobs involving exposure to substances possibly harmful to fetuses. [A20.]
New standards for reducing air pollution from autos were agreed to in a House-Senate conference committee. [A22.]
 
 
 
Companies
Saks Fifth Avenue announced a five-year strategic program that calls for a cut of 700 jobs, capital investments of $250 million and plans for an additional chain of fashion specialty shops. [D1.]
John C. Portman Jr. said he would surrender to mortgage holders a controlling interest in the Peachtree Center office complex in Atlanta, the keystone of his worldwide real estate holdings. [D1.]
CBS said its net income fell 30 percent in the third quarter. The company blamed the decline on higher costs for programming, the acquisition of expensive rights to sports events, and unexpected spending to cover the Persian Gulf crisis. [D1.]
The Energy Department said it had selected 11 companies to buy nearly four million barrels of crude oil from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve. [D10.]
Mesa agreed to sell a portion of its oil and gas properties and undeveloped land to Seagull Energy. [D5.]
 
 
 
Markets
Oil prices fell after bouncing up and down on war worries and then on rumors that Saddam Hussein had been assassinated. Crude for delivery next month closed at $38.69, down $1.71. [D1.]
Stock prices fell after fluctuating wildly amid nervousness over inaction in the Persian Gulf, inaction on the deficit, depressing earnings and an almost daily diet of Middle East rumors. The Dow lost 37.62, to 2,407.92. [D10.]
Prices of Treasury securities moved sharply lower and interest rates rose again. [D16.]
Silver prices fell to their lowest level in more than 13 years. Gold prices also fell, and the dollar finished mixed. [D17.]
Grain and soybean futures prices closed mostly lower. Corn futures were influenced by slack demand from overseas. [D17.]
Yields of tax-exempt money market funds were down for the week, while yields on taxable funds were unchanged. [D8.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Elco Industries finally broke into the supplier network for Japanese auto plants in the United States by finding a Japanese partner. Talking Deals. [D2.]
Gibson Greetings now knows the pain, as well as the joys, of leverage. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
BMW is trying to pep up its motorcycle division by hiring a new advertising agency, raising advertising expenditures tenfold and adding lower-priced vehicles. Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); GEORGIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (55%); NEW ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); VETO (78%); SILVER MARKETS (77%); INSURANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); FUTURES (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); TEXTILES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (67%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (67%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (66%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); AIR POLLUTION (52%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); SPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 



345 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Oil Down $1.71 After Big Swings

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Oil prices fell yesterday after bouncing up and down on war worries and then on rumors that Saddam Hussein had been assassinated.
In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, a barrel of crude for delivery next month closed at $38.69, down $1.71 from Tuesday's record high of $40.40. In the course of a wild day, prices reached $41.15 and then fell back to $38.
The gyrations were felt in the stock market, but for a change stocks moved in the same direction as oil prices, with the Dow off 37.62, at 2,407.92, after fluctuating wildly. [Page D10.] Refined products fell even more sharply than crude oil; heating oil closed at $1.0105, down 5.10 cents, the equivalent of $2.14 a barrel. Unleaded gasoline fell to 93.60 cents a gallon, or 4.66 cents, the equivalent of $1.96 a barrel. 
''The markets were kind of manic-depressive,'' said James Fielder, a trader at E.D.& F. Man International. ''As long as the situation in the Persian Gulf is not resolved, it's going to stay volatile like this, and you might as well get used to it.''
Mr. Fielder described a market torn between two magnets: a war price of $60 a barrel and a supply-and-demand price of $20 a barrel, with occasional panicky lunges toward one or the other.
At Cargill Investor Services, Howard P. Rennell, a trader, said that heating oil had led the plunge in crude. ''The market was getting overbought before the Palestinian situation hit the news,'' he said, referring to the riot in Jerusalem on Monday in which at least 19 Palestinians were killed. ''People have gone into the heating oil market with the expectation of December's being as bitter cold as it was last year, and a war, combining the two worst-case scenarios.'' In addition, he pointed out, inventories are high.
After the market closed, the American Petroleum Institute, the industry's main trade association, released its weekly survey, showing that inventories are still strong, although slightly lower in some categories.
 
A View From Canada
Most experts see volatility ahead. At the Canadian Energy Research Institute, in Calgary, Alberta, Dr. Gerry Angevine, the chairman, said: ''If the price falls to $30, all Saddam Hussein has to do is make a statement and the price will go up. And I would think that from where he sits, he wants to see the price stay high. He'd like to see his enemies pay as high a price as possible.''
''On any one day, we could continue to see swings of 10 percent or more,'' Dr. Angevine said. The range today, $3.15, was about 8 percent, larger than average but not the largest in the 11 weeks since Iraq invaded Kuwait, a period in which the price of oil has more than doubled.
Since then, resentment against the oil industry and the futures market has grown. In Washington yesterday, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman complained in a speech on the Senate floor of ''a feeding frenzy in oil futures.''
Senator Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, said ''speculators on the futures market often trade up prices on the basis of hysteria, not rational projections of future economic factors.''
''Rumors fly at the speed of sound, and prices rise or fall in quick consequence,'' Mr. Lieberman said. ''It makes little difference whether those rumors are true or false.''
Others argue, however, that the futures market is doing its job of determining a price, one that is now heavily influenced by uncertainty.
John H. Lichtblau, the head of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York, said, ''the great bulk of these transactions are for the purpose of hedging, not speculation.'' For example, he said, a company that pumps oil from the ground might buy a contract to sell oil next month at $40, to protect itself against the risk that a resolution to the crisis would cut world oil prices and make the company's output worth less.
''It's really risk insurance,'' Mr. Lichtblau said. And if rumors drive prices up, they also drive prices down, he said, adding that for every winner on the market there is a loser.

GRAPHIC: Chart showing the price for a barrel of crude oil for November delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange (source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter) (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%); 

COMPANY: CARGILL INVESTOR SERVICES INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); FUTURES (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (54%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 



346 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
700 Jobs To Be Cut By Saks

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
Saks Fifth Avenue, which has been owned by a Middle East financial company since last spring, announced a five-year strategic program yesterday that calls for a cut of 700 jobs, capital investments of $250 million and plans for an additional chain of small fashion specialty shops.
Melvin Jacobs, Saks's chairman and chief executive, said at a news conference that about 700 jobs, representing about 6 percent of the company's 12,000 employees, would be eliminated to ''create operating efficiencies to achieve our five-year goals.'' About half of the ''redundant and marginal administrative positions'' will come from Saks's corporate office and the rest from the 47 stores, he said.
Philip B. Miller, one of Saks's two new vice chairmen, said attrition in the central office had already cut 200 to 300 jobs. He denied that the unspecified savings from the cutbacks would be used to finance some or all of the store renovation expenditures. ''That's a separate allocation and has nothing to do with the redundancy program,'' Mr. Miller said. 
 
Economy Moves
The staff cutback apparently represents yet another in a series of economy moves that have spread throughout New York retailing. Bloomingdale's, Abraham & Straus and Stern's pruned their staffs in 1988 and 1989 after their acquisition by the Campeau Corporation. Two weeks ago, another leading fashion retailer, Seattle-based Nordstrom Inc., which has three stores in the East, reported 6 to 12 percent staff reductions.
Despite industry reports indicating sales declines at area stores catering to the affluent, Saks said sales at comparable stores - those open at least a year - were ''nicely ahead.''
Mr. Jacobs said 100 top employees would be allowed to acquire an 8 percent equity stake in the company for about $48 million. This amount will be offered to them by Investcorp International, the Middle East holding company that bought Saks earlier this year from B.A.T. Industries of London for $1.5 billion, including $600 million in equity.
Speaking at the new Saks Tower on Fifth Avenue and 49th Street, which includes the Fifth Avenue flagship store, Mr. Jacobs said, ''Our plans call for substantial capital investment in our stores, a stronger focus on the selling floor, intensified merchandising, an increase in our Folio catalogue business and equity participation and other incentives for our people.''
Saks will invest about $250 million over five years to renovate stores and improve information data systems, Mr. Jacobs said. Under the B.A.T. ownership, he said Saks had made ''significant expenditures'' in the last five years to erect the Tower, expand the flagship store and open new stores in Chicago, Denver and Portland, Ore.
Referring to the employee cutback, Mr. Jacobs said, ''It will be invisible to the customers but will allow us to enhance our service.'' As part of the strategy of concentrating more effort on the selling floor, he said, Saks was reclassifying a number of positions, eliminating job redundancies and planning to install greater incentives for salespeople and higher bonuses for mid-rank executives.
 
New Team at the Top
The news conference was also used to introduce Saks's new top management team made up of Mr. Jacobs and the chain's president, Burton Tansky, who have both been associated with Saks for a number of years, and the two new vice chairmen, Mr. Miller and Arthur Martinez. All four members of senior management have purchased ''significant equity stakes in the company,'' Mr. Jacobs said. He declined to give details.
Saks's executives declined to comment on reports that the company's first-half profits had been disappointing, registering only $26.3 million after taxes against an expected $32 million. But Mr. Miller did say, ''We expect a satisfactory profit year in 1990, higher than the year before.''
 
'Running Nicely Ahead in Sales'
Mr. Martinez said Saks's comparable stores were ''running nicely ahead in sales and our three new stores are having an outstanding response.'' Later, Mr. Miller said, ''We are showing a high-single-digit gain in sales in October so far, and our profits are on line with our expectations.''
The executives said that they expected Saks's Folio catalogue operation to double its present sales, from $55 million to $110 million. Expansion efforts are being pushed toward opening a separate chain of small fashion stores, emphasizing a specific merchandise category such as shoes or men's wear. Referring to the small stores, Mr. Jacobs said that ''their number would have to be considerable to add much growth to Saks.''
He and his associates said that they were interested in opening new Saks stores internationally, especially in Japan and Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (84%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (52%); BTI (JSE) (52%); BATS (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (59%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (59%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (84%); CAMPEAU CORP (66%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (59%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR); RETAIL STORES AND TRADE LAYOFFS (93%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE MELVIN E JACOBS (58%); 



347 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Portman Mortgage Holders To Control Atlanta Project

BYLINE: By JERRY SCHWARTZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 10

 BODY:
John C. Portman Jr., the Atlanta architect and developer, said today that he would surrender to mortgage holders a controlling interest in the Peachtree Center office complex here, the keystone of his worldwide real estate holdings.
The move puts the mortgage holders, the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States and Nippon Life Insurance, in control of six downtown office towers. Mr. Portman will keep a minority interest. It comes after weeks of talks in which Mr. Portman tried to obtain more favorable terms for more than $2 billion in debt.
He has been meeting since August with a committee of 22 creditors, led by Citicorp. He has tried to get breathing room after cash-flow problems caused his privately owned development companies to miss loan payments and led to lawsuits from two creditors - Chemical Bank and Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank -that ran out of patience. 
Mr. Portman, 65 years old, is best known for designing and constructing a series of trend-setting hotels whose lobbies featured large atriums. They include the Marriott Marquis in Manhattan and the Hyatt Regency in Atlanta. He also owns multi-use commercial projects in San Francisco and Shanghai.
Citicorp is Mr. Portman's largest unsecured creditor, having lent him $378 million to build his newest Atlanta venture, a 60-story office tower to be known as One Peachtree Center.
With a fairly strong service-based economy, Atlanta has not been hit as badly by the real estate slump and commercial office glut as the Northeast and states like Texas. But developers here say the office market has gradually been softening.
Given that situation, several commercial real estate experts have questioned the wisdom of Mr. Portman's continuing aggressive development here and elsewhere.
Last year, when other big developers sharply cut back their activity, Mr. Portman nearly doubled the size of his Atlanta Apparel Mart and at the same time opened a technology mart, which now stands only one-third leased. One Peachtree Center, scheduled to open in 1992, is not included in the deal with Equitable and Nippon.
Repeated requests to interview Mr. Portman in the last several weeks have been rebuffed by his office.
 
Suits Filed by Banks
Mr. Portman's problems became public when he was sued Aug. 31 by Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank. The West German bank contended Mr. Portman had failed to repay a $3 million, 90-day loan.
Chemical Bank sued Mr. Portman in September when he failed to make a $5 million payment due Sept. 1 on a revolving line of credit. Mr. Portman also failed to make a payment scheduled Sept. 1 on his Equitable mortgage.
Under the terms of a 1988 mortgage with Equitable and Nippon, the two life insurance companies would have gained a 50 percent interest in the Peachtree Center complex at the end of the 10-year mortgage.
The deal concluded this week will give the two companies substantially more than 50 percent ownership of the complex, although the exact terms were not immediately available. In turn, Mr. Portman may receive several million dollars more from the two companies, people familiar with the talks said.
 
Other Holdings Seen as Safe
While the deal covers only the Peachtree Center complex, a spokesman for Mr. Portman said the additional cash should make it easier for the developer to conclude new loans with his other creditors.
Company officials would not say how the Peachtree Center deal might affect Mr. Portman's operating income. But one person close to the negotiations said the deal would not imperil Mr. Portman's other holdings.
The One Peachtree Center project was hurt last month when the First Atlanta Corporation, heavily courted by the Portman Companies, chose to lease 20 floors of space at a competing office building under construction four blocks away.
Sam Williams, an executive with the Portman Companies, acknowledged that the adverse publicity the company has received in recent days has hurt the company's efforts to lease space in the new center.
 
Additional Sales Ruled Out
Mr. Williams said the Portman Companies was not considering selling any additional holdings. ''There are no distress sales, no fire sales,'' he said. ''The properties are much too good. They are not weak enough for that to be considered.''
Mr. Portman's Shanghai complex of a hotel, stores, offices and apartments was set back last year when the Chinese Government cracked down on dissident students in Beijing. Earlier this year, a consortium of 19 banks agreed to allow Mr. Portman and his partners in the Shanghai development to defer payments on $145 million in loans for an additional three years, to January 1993.
Mr. Portman sold one of his hotels in San Francisco this spring for $103 million after last fall's earthquake severely cut tourism to the city.
Some economists say Mr. Portman could benefit from the announcement last month that Atlanta would be the site of the 1996 summer Olympic Games. The city's slumping construction industry will be buoyed by nearly $500 million in contracts for construction of new sports centers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John C. Portman Jr., the developer of the Peachtree Center. (The New York Times) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); NIPPON LIFE INSURANCE FOUNDATION (58%); NIPPON LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); CHEMICAL BANK (56%); PEACHTREE CENTER (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF THE US; NIPPON LIFE INSURANCE CO

SUBJECT: PEACHTREE CENTER (ATLANTA, GA); OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INSURANCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); LITIGATION (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JERRY; PORTMAN, JOHN C JR JOHN C PORTMAN JR (99%); 



348 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: House Fails to Overturn Bush Veto of Import Bill

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
The House failed today to overturn President Bush's veto of a bill cutting imports of textiles, apparel and shoes.
The vote was 275 in favor of the override and 152 against, or 10 short of the two-thirds necessary to block the veto.
The failure to overturn the veto had been expected, signaled by the House's inability to get enough votes for an override when it passed the legislation last month. The vote nevertheless gave Mr. Bush a legislative victory at a time when his leadership has been undermined by confusion over budget policy. 
 
The Parties Split
The voting today showed Democrats as well as Republicans divided. Voting with the President were 103 Republicans and 49 Democrats, while 206 Democrats voted against the President, along with 69 Republicans.
''We have absolutely no chance to get into foreign markets if we unilaterally close our own markets,'' said the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Dan Rostenkowski. The Illinois Democrat is a strong opponent of textile protection.
But Jamie L. Whitten, a Mississippi Democrat who heads the House Appropriations Committee, argued in support of the override motion. ''We're headed for a real recession in this country,'' he said, ''because we're letting everyone around the world have our domestic market.''
 
Whip Sides Against Bush
The Republican whip, Newt Gingrich, the No. 2 House Republican who led a successful fight last week against a budget agreement backed by the President, again opposed Mr. Bush, voting with the Georgia delegation to overturn the veto.
The action winds up the textile industry's third attempt in the last five years to get Congress to mandate trade restrictions.
Mr. Bush said the newest effort, cutting growth of textile and apparel imports to 1 percent a year and freezing footwear imports at 1989 levels, would not only increase clothing costs for consumers but also abrogate international agreements, destroying the Uruguay Round of global trade talks for freeing more trade.
 
'A Very Bad Bill'
''Of course, we're pleased that the veto has been sustained,'' said Torie Clarke, an aide to the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills. ''It was a very bad bill, very protectionist and very damaging to U.S. efforts to achieve successful conclusion of the round.''
Joseph P. O'Neill, the president of the National Retail Federation, a trade organization based here, observed that ''American consumers today got the only good economic news they will hear this week.''
Despite Administration opposition, the House and the Senate had passed the measure in the last few months with large majorities. But the House vote came up short even then of the two-thirds needed to override any veto, which Mr. Bush had promised at the time.
The broad support reflected the geographical diversity of textile, apparel and shoe manufacturers and a vigorous lobbying campaign by the industry asserting that American jobs are being lost to low-wage foreign suppliers.
Sam M. Gibbons, the Florida Democrat who heads the House Ways and Means trade subcommittee, said during today's debate that the cost of textile protection was comparable to the losses from the savings and loan crisis.
According to the President's Council of Economic Advisers, the bill would cost consumers $30 billion over five years, with the burden falling most heavily on low- and middle-income Americans, since apparel and shoes make up such a high fraction of their household budget.
William R. Cline of the Institute for International Economics in Washington, estimates that textile trade restrictions already cost American consumers $20.3 billion a year, or $238 annually for every American household.
While the legislation might increase the number of textile jobs, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Michael J. Boskin, said in a letter to lawmakers last month that consumers would end up paying $70,000 for each job created.
Administration officials have also cited the textile and apparel industries' improving profitability, noting that domestic shipments rose nearly 7 percent in 1989 and exports were up 27 percent.
With the two earlier defeats of similar legislation, many trade officials and private analysts saw the new initiative as basically aimed at maneuvering for better leverage in the Uruguay Round, the final session of four-year trade talks that will be held in December in Brussels.
Textiles are one of the keys to a successful round. To get developing countries to commit to better protection of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property and to open markets for services, like insurance and tourism, the United States and other industrial countries have offered to gradually remove protection for textiles and apparel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TEXTILES; SHOES AND BOOTS; IMPORT QUOTAS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US) US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TEXTILES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); FOOTWEAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); RETAILERS (62%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 



349 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: A More Pessimistic View of Bank Deposit Insurance Fund

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
New projections by the Bush Administration show the fund insuring bank deposits shrinking to less than half its current size within three years, a senior House Banking Committee member said today.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's Bank Insurance Fund will lose $6.1 billion through the fiscal year 1993 even if the fees banks paid for deposit insurance rise, said Frank Annunzio, Democrat of Illinois, citing projections by the Office of Management and Budget.
The new estimates are far more pessimistic than the budget office's previous projections. In June, the office had estimated that the F.D.I.C. would show a profit of $600 million over the period, Mr. Annunzio said. 
''The taxpayer is in serious jeopardy of being asked to bail out the banks,'' he said in disclosing what he characterized as ''little-noticed calculations'' by the budget office.
The new projections are in the budget agreement reached by White House negotiators and Congressional leaders on Sept. 30, he said.
 
'Pessimistic' Outlook
Roger Watson, the F.D.I.C.'s research director, said the figures as described by Mr. Annunzio ''certainly are pessimistic.''
''They are possible, but not likely,'' he said.
They show the insurance fund shrinking to $5.3 billion by Sept. 30, 1993, or to only 22 cents for every $100 in deposits. That is less than a fifth the $1.25 minimum considered safe and less than half the 60-cent level in the fund at the end of June.
''These O.M.B. projections are doubly alarming when you realize that they are based on economic assumptions that do not include a recession,'' said Mr. Annunzio, the chairman of the House Banking Financial Institutions Subcommittee.
The fund protecting $2 trillion in deposits stood at $11.4 billion at the end of June. By Sept. 30, 1991, it will have shrunk by $3.7 billion, according to the projections, Mr. Annunzio said. It will lose $2.3 billion in the fiscal year 1992 and $100 million in the fiscal year 1993.
 
Higher Premimums Included
The latest forecast of big losses is being made despite an assumption that insurance premiums paid by banks will continue to rise. The fee is already set to increase from 12 cents per $100 of deposits this year to 19.5 cents next year. The budget office assumed it would rise to 23 cents in 1992 and 1993.
The F.D.I.C. has not made projections for its fund beyond the end of the calendar year. The bank fund lost $1.8 billion in the first six months of the year and will lose $1 billion more by Dec. 31, the agency has said.
L. William Seidman, the chairman of the F.D.I.C., said this summer that the bank insurance fund was ''under stress'' but has said that it will be adequate to handle foreseeable bank failures, which are expected to total around 200 in 1990 for the fourth consecutive year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; DEPOSIT INSURANCE BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) FRANK ANNUNZIO (93%); 



350 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Layoffs by Hasbro

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: PAWTUCKET, R.I., Oct. 10

 BODY:
Hasbro Inc., the nation's largest toy maker, said it had laid off 90 workers. Hasbro said it had made the cuts because of the ailing economy and its need to remain competitive. The company, which employs 8,000 worldwide, said administrative costs had grown at a greater rate than sales. The layoffs affected workers in marketing, research and development, sales and administration. Hasbro's shares fell 37.5 cents today, to $12.25, on the American Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (94%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HASBRO INC

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (91%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (82%); 



351 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Commodities Trader Starts His Own Firm

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
Gene D. Donney, former president and chief executive of Elders Futures Inc., a commodity futures trading company, has set up his own commodities research and portfolio management firm and claims a unique status for it.
Mr. Donney, 37 years old, says his company, Pegasus Econometric Group, is the first in the industry to provide market research and analysis while not relying on brokerage commissions for revenue. ''We are doing something completely new,'' he said. ''Unbundling advice away from actual trading. We're out in front of the field.'' 
The firm is not executing trades, he said, ''because the economics are just not there; the commission rate is so low.'' That leaves Pegasus to focus ''on the success of the clients' trading strategies, not on the frequency of their transactions,'' Mr. Donney said.
Among those joining Mr. Donney are Peter C. Beutel, 35, an oil industry analyst who will head Pegasus's energy division, and Mr. Donney's brother, Randolph L. Donney, 30, who will head commodity research.
Gene Donney went to work in the commodities trading industry in 1976 after graduation from Fordham University and after deciding against pursuing a career playing the violin. ''Music was my primary interest from age 4 to 17,'' he said, and it took him to the Juilliard School, where he studied for a time.
Mr. Donney worked at Merrill Lynch and then Dean Witter and in 1985 went out on his own for two years as a money manager and consultant. One of his big clients was Elders IXL of Australia, which wanted to get into the futures business.
Mr. Donney helped the company buy a futures firm, Rudolf Wolff. ''We overhauled it, and it became very successful in the industry,'' he said.
But then Elders, a beer company that expanded rapidly in the 1980's, fell on hard times and was forced to divest itself of its financial businesses. Elders Futures Inc. was sold in May to Merrill Lynch.
Mr. Donney's brother and Mr. Beutel were at Elders and after its sale to Merrill Lynch worked at Merrill before joining Pegasus.
Along with commodity market research, Pegasus, based in Hoboken, N.J., offers fixed-income fund management and consulting for professional and institutional clients, Mr. Donney said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gene D. Donney, Pegasus Econometric Group (Weiser Minkus Walek)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (92%); MER (NYSE) (92%); 8675 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEGASUS ECONOMETRIC GROUP

SUBJECT: COMMODITIES TRADING (92%); FUTURES (91%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; DONNEY, GENE D MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



352 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Issues Decline Sharply

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved sharply lower and interest rates rose again yesterday, pushed by continuing concerns about the Middle East and the Federal budget as well as a disappointing auction of seven-year Treasury notes.
With the rise in interest rates over the last two sessions, traders had expected demand for the record $8.5 billion worth of new securities to be strong. That was not the case, though, and the notes were sold at an average yield of 8.76 percent, up from 8.57 percent at the last seven-year note sale on July 11. It is the highest yield on a seven-year note since the auction of April 12, 1989. 
''The auction was very sloppy,'' said Peter Bass, a managing director at S.G. Warburg Securities Inc. ''People thought rates were high enough for it to have had a better outcome than it did.''
The notes traded poorly after results of the auction were announced, and were offered on a when-issued basis late yesterday at a price to yield 8.79 percent.
The note sale provided the first opportunity to gauge how Washington's inability to come up with a budget package is being received by foreign investors.
 
American Fixed-Income Markets
Foreigners have been leaving American fixed-income markets in droves for much of the year, attracted by higher yields and more stable currencies elsewhere. Based on what happened at the auction yesterday, the continuing budget problem has provided another reason to stay away.
''There were absolutely no bids from Japan, which is ridiculous,'' Mr. Bass said. ''Normally you would see some bidding for a seven-year, but not this time.''
Mr. Bass said foreign investors were looking at the unfolding drama in Washington ''with disbelief.''
''People in Europe are becoming very pessimistic about our ability to manage our affairs,'' he said, ''and think that yields, irrespective of very weak economic activity, will rise.''
William M. Brachfeld, an executive vice president at Daiwa Securities America Inc., said demand from Japanese investors was ''nonexistent, continuing a trend we have seen.''
''We are hearing and seeing sensible people selling U.S. securities and buying foreign securities,'' he said.
Still, for domestic investors Mr. Brachfeld said the Treasury market was a ''screaming buy,'' primarily because of the weak American economy. ''But for foreigners with the option of buying anywhere, it is a sale,'' he said.
A decline in oil prices, which moved well below $40 a barrel yesterday, did not help to improve the market's gloomy mood. Nor did comments by Robert Glauber, the Treasury Department's Under Secretary for Finance.
Speaking to a business group in Washington, Mr. Glauber said that while rising oil prices might increase the possibility of a short-term economic contraction, a ''meaningful'' recession was not on the horizon.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, long-term issues bore the brunt of yesterday's selloff.
By late in the day, the 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds of 2020 were offered at 96 7/8, down nearly a point, or almost $10 for each $1,000 face amount of securities, to yield 9.05 percent. Late Tuesday, following a price drop of more than 1 1/2 points, the benchmark issue yielded 8.95 percent.
Among note issues, the 8 3/4 percent 10-year notes were offered at 98 31/ 32 late yesterday, down 5/8 point, to yield 8.90 percent. And the 8 1/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 1/4, down 5/32, to yield 7.98 percent.
 
Short-Term Bill Rates
Short-term Treasury bill rates rose slightly.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.18 percent, up one basis point, or one one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates rose by a similar amount, to a late offered rate of 7.20 percent.
In other developments, the Public Securities Association, an industry group, said yesterday that it expects to start the first phase of live dissemination of Government securities price information in mid-February.
The first phase will include information on all Treasury bills, notes and bonds, the P.S.A. said. The information will be disseminated on a 24-hour, global basis.
The P.S.A.'s action follows recommendations by various Government agencies and departments, incuding the General Accounting Office and the Securities and Exchange Commission, for wider availability of price information in the government securities market. Currently, only one government securities firm, Cantor Fitzgerald, provides the public with pricing information on computer screens.
Activity in the tax-exempt municipal bond market was highlighted by a competitive offering of $500 million worth of general obligation bonds by the State of California.
A bid from a group led by the Bank of America won the issue, which consists of serial and term bonds.
The serial bonds were preliminarily priced with yields from 5.91 percent on securities maturing in 1991, to 6.20 percent on bonds that mature in 1995 and 7.05 percent on securities that mature in 2005.
A term bond that matures in 2008 was offered on a preliminiary basis at a price to yield 7.10 percent. Term bonds maturing in 2009 and 2010 were not reoffered.
Investment bankers familiar with the deal said that demand for the issue was extremely strong. The securities are rated AAA by both Moody's Investors Service and by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In the secondary market for municipal bonds, traders said that prices of most issues came under selling pressure again yesterday, and that prices fell by about 1/2 point.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, prices of most issues dipped by 1/8 point to 1/4 point, according to participants.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of seven-year Treasury notes: BankAmericad (Bank of America)

GRAPHIC: Charts: 7-Year Treasury Notes (source: Treasury Dept.); Freddie Mac Yields (source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (63%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (93%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (61%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CURRENCIES (67%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N PETER BASS (61%); 



353 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Grain and Soybean Prices Off After Weather Forecast

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Grain and soybean futures prices closed mostly lower yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Corn futures were influenced by slack demand from overseas. They received some support from reports that the Soviets would eventually make a purchase.
Slack sales by farmers also lifted to corn prices.
Over all, the market was under pressure from forecasts that the rains of the last few days would be ending, allowing farmers to get on with the harvest, said Joel Karlin, an analyst with Research Department Inc. in Chicago.
 
Crop Production Report Today
Trading was cautious in anticipation of today's release of the United States Agriculture Department's October crop production report.
Wheat was 1 cent to 3 1/2 cents lower, with delivery in December at $2.76 1/4 a bushel; corn was 1/2 cent to 1 1/2 cents higher, with December at $2.35 1/2 a bushel; oats were 1/2 to 1 cent higher, with December at $1.23 a bushel, and soybeans were 4 1/2 to 9 1/2 cents lower, with November at $6.25 a bushel.
Livestock and pork futures were lower in trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Pork prices were under pressure from a drop in cash prices.
Slack demand for beef products pushed livestock futures lower. Analysts said the market was also under pressure from concerns that the United States economic outlook is weak.
Live cattle were 0.37 to 0.88 cent lower, with October at 79.20 cents a pound; feeder cattle were 0.25 to 0.85 cent lower, with October at 87.70 cents a pound; hogs were 0.15 to 0.50 cent lower, with October at 56.57 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were 1.10 cents lower to 0.20 cent higher, with February at 63.40 cents a pound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (94%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GRAIN; SOYBEANS; PRICES FUTURES (96%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (93%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (91%); CORN MARKETS (91%); OATS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); WEATHER (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); PORK (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); MEATS (77%); HOG & PIG FARMING (77%); CROP PRODUCTION (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BEEF (73%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); FROZEN FOODS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: 50 CENT (53%); 



354 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Survey Gives Magazines Edge vs. TV

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Oct. 10

 BODY:
Magazine publishers winding up the three-day American Magazine Conference here got some good news today. Preliminary results of a reader survey show that in 8 of 10 households, at least one person buys and reads magazines.
The survey, which will be presented in final form at a meeting of the Audit Bureau of Circulations in November, also indicates that magazines outscore television and newspapers by at least 2 to 1 as the most effective source of overall knowledge. 
Those surveyed also indicated they preferred magazine advertising over television advertising as a more ''appealing, informative, believable and helpful'' buying guide, the survey said.
The survey's reference point was the 12,000 consumer magazines in this country.
 
Study of 978 Households
Personal interviews were conducted in 978 households in May by Audits and Surveys, an independent research company. The survey was financed by Publishers Clearing House. It was the sixth such survey of reader involvement since 1979 and the first comprehensive one since the original survey in 1976.
While it included no surprises, the survey provided publishers with some proof that magazines continue to be as important in these economically tough times as they have been insisting. Magazine publishers have been battling a downturn in advertising that has also been felt by newspaper publishers.
Statistics for the 173 consumer magazines tracked by the Publishers Information Bureau, for instance, show a 3.15 percent decline in advertising pages through August, compared with the same period last year. And an even larger decline, of 6.5 percent, was noted by the current Media Industry Newsletter for the 19 weekly magazines it has been tracking.
 
'No Basic Underlying Problem'
Donald D. Kummerfeld, president of the Magazine Publishers of America, one of the sponsors of the conference, was nevertheless cheered by the survey. ''It indicates no weakening at a time when people are questioning whether there is something basically wrong with the magazine industry,'' he said. ''This is heartening evidence that this recession is not aimed at the magazine industry and that there is no basic underlying problem from the consumer point of view.''
Among other preliminary results, the survey showed that the preference for magazines as a source of information was greatest in the upper socio-economic group, the group that most interests advertisers. Eight of 10 people surveyed said they felt there was too much advertising on television, compared with five of 10 who thought magazines had too much advertising. And those surveyed said they were more likely to pay attention to advertising in magazines than to advertising on television.
The respondents also said they were more apt to order a product by phone or mail after seeing a magazine advertisement than after seeing a television commercial.
 
Question on Car Ads
When it comes to advertising cars, the people surveyed indicated, magazines are twice as effective as television and considerably more effective than radio and newspapers. This finding was particularly true among people aged 25 to 54 who were better educated and either had professional or managerial jobs or were owners of their businesses.
In addition, 39 percent of respondents said they thought that magazines were the most effective medium for finding out about money matters, compared with 14 percent who thought television more effective and 47 percent who favored newspapers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLISHERS CLEARING HOUSE (56%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (54%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (58%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (58%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (76%); STATISTICS (74%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE



355 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
Senate Panel Approves a Major Cut in AIDS Relief for Cities

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
In a tangle that pitted one needy group against another, the Senate Appropriations Committee today approved less than 20 percent of the money authorized for disaster relief to the cities hardest hit by the AIDS epidemic.
''We have arrived at a point that we were afraid we were going to arrive at, where people in need are fighting one another for too few resources,'' said Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York.
Anguished statements were heard from senators seeking more money for AIDS and from those seeking to avoid cuts in other health programs, from cancer and cystic fibrosis to Head Start in the schools.
In May, the Senate voted 95 to 4 to approve $2.9 billion over five years for cities hard hit by AIDS and for states to distribute to community groups and home-care programs that help AIDS patients. The House authorized somewhat more money in a parallel bill. 
 
Final Amount Yet to Be Set
Both chambers authorized $875 million in the first year of the program. But the Senate committee today voted to appropriate only $159 million. Of that, $110 million is for continuing programs in the states, and $49 million is new money in relief to the cities. The House is expected to appropriate money for the bill next week, and Senate aides expect the Senate to approve the lower amounts in a floor vote soon. A conference between the two houses is to determine the final amounts sometime before Oct. 19, when Congress is set to adjourn.
The vote today by the Senate panel is crucial because it set budget restraints on the AIDS measure. The bill may gain money in conference but is expected to remain far below the amounts authorized by the two houses earlier this year.
Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, objected to the situation, saying that defense programs have increased $756 billion over the past decade while domestic programs increased only $14 billion. ''It's like the runt pig,'' he said. ''It's hard for him to get up and stay alive when he's deprived of his fair share.''
 
Robbing Peter
The crucial vote came after Senator Brock Adams, Democrat of Washington, offered an amendment to gather the money for AIDS disaster relief by cutting nine-tenths of 1 percent from all the health programs that were set to get increases above inflation for 1991.
''We have a disaster in this country, which the Senate has voted 95 to 4 as being a disaster,'' he said. ''The public health systems in the country are breaking down.'' He compared the money needed to the emergency money given to San Francisco for the earthquake there or the Carolinas for Hurricane Hugo.
Senator Ted Stevens, Democrat of Alaska, said it would be unfair to cut across the board and that supporters of the AIDS measure should instead find specific programs to cut to raise the money for AIDS.
Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, agreed. ''There has been an enormous increase in other AIDS funding this year,'' he said. ''Now we are talking about taking money away from cancer, heart disease, childhood immunization, diabetes, arthritis. In fact, this will also take money away from AIDS, from research programs at the National Institutes of Health.'' He said that although he voted for the AIDS bill, he could not cut money from other programs for it.
 
Many Programs, Little Money
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, spoke in support of the Adams amendment. ''This is not research,'' he said. ''This is treatment money. These people are going to die, and we want to treat them with some dignity as they leave the earth.''
But Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said too many programs were authorized by the Senate for which no money can be found. ''It's like calling the spirits from the briny depths,'' he said. ''You can call them and I can call them, but will they come?''
The amendment was finally defeated on a voice vote.
Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, then offered the package that was approved, appropriating $159 million for 1991 and $441 million for the 1992 fiscal year. The $441 million becomes part of next year's base budget and requires no further action to be spent.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he was disappointed with the turn of the bill, which is named after Ryan White, the hemophiliac who died of AIDS in April when he was 18 years old.
''I recognize there are serious budget restraints,'' the Senator said, ''but this inadequate level of funding is a deep disappointment. The real tragedy is for those people with AIDS in desperate need of treatment and care who do not have time to wait.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL AID (US); URBAN AREAS AIDS & HIV (95%); APPROVALS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (77%); EPIDEMICS (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J ROBERT BYRD (58%); TED STEVENS (58%); 



356 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
In a Worried Economy, Impasse Adds to Unease

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
The budget stalemate, coinciding with the Persian Gulf confrontation, is worsening the economic slump and increasing the chances of another jolt to the financial markets, various analysts say.
Wall Street and business executives have long had low expectations for Government fiscal policy - the political difficulties of, say, scaling back increases in Social Security are immense - but the defeat last week of a budget plan is seen as a particularly discouraging sign.
''We are sick and tired of Washington,'' commented Rimmer deVries, chief economist for J. P. Morgan & Company. ''It's the same spectacle of inaction.'' 
 
Dealing With a Giant
In strict economic terms, the Government's inability to put in place a spending-and-taxing blueprint for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1 is of small consequence. A few score billion dollars of tax increases and spending cuts should not cause a significant change in the course of a $5.4 trillion-a-year economy. And regarding future years, there is strong skepticism that any budget targets will actually be met.
Psychologically, however, the stalemate has had a marked impact, even though most analysts consider the Persian Gulf crisis, which has sent the price of oil soaring above $40 a barrel, to be even more important for the immediate future.
''If Washington continues to play games with the budget, we're likely to see a very serious risk in the financial markets of another October crash,'' said Jay N. Woodworth, a senior economist at the Bankers Trust Company and a former Treasury Department official. He added that ''budgetary drift'' was one factor contributing to the 1987 market debacle.
Congress's rejection of the agreement reached at the budget summit meeting and announced in the Rose Garden 10 days ago also makes it highly unlikely that there will be immediate economic stimulus through the Federal Reserve. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has said for some time that he will cut interest rates once a credible long-term plan to reduce the budget deficit is adopted.
 
More Delays Expected
With the immobilization of the Federal Reserve, which in recent years has by default come to dominate economic policy making, a budget deal is being viewed as more crucial and more elusive by the markets, by business executives and by many consumers. Many now believe, in fact, that no agreement can occur until after the elections in early November.
To the extent the budgetary impasse undermines confidence and aggravates recession, the budget deficit will grow even further, analysts note. Recession implies both lower tax revenue and higher spending for unemployment compensation and other benefits.
Yet it remains unclear how much short-term benefit even a solid-looking budget plan would provide. For one thing, Mr. Greenspan has indicated that even though a credible agreement is a precondition for easing monetary policy, passage of such a plan will not make action automatic.
The budget stalemate represents ''another element of uncertainty that is hitting the economy,'' said Howard Keen, chief economist for Conrail. He said the situation called for paying even more attention to a variety of ''downside risks,'' which analysts say include an increasingly shaky financial structure, heavy debt loads and plunging consumer confidence.
 
Big Role for Oil Prices
The jump in oil prices, while possibly short-lived, is gradually becoming embedded in many costs - though not yet in labor - and putting upward pressure on inflation. A skidding dollar, another source of inflation, may also cause the Federal Reserve to hesitate in its easing or be grudging in the amount of relief it grants.
Mr. Greenspan almost certainly will not instantly drive rates down even if he sees a deal that meets his test of a credible and enforceable deficit reduction. Rather, the Federal Reserve would wait for the bond market to drive down long-term rates, which Mr. Greenspan has observed are the ones that really count for economic reinvigoration. Only after the market acts would the central bank then bless the process by cutting short-term rates.
Long-term rates, which climbed back above the 9 percent level today, are governed mainly by market expectations for inflation. Short-term rates, over which the Fed has considerable control, are relatively immune to inflation pressures and are set by the supply and demand for temporary credit.
Even with a lower structure of interest rates, however, there is no certainty that borrowers would feel confident enough about the economic outlook to seek the loans and do the spending that would eventually help revive the economy.
On one point, though, economists and market professionals - though not the politicians - are in broad agreement: If Mr. Greenspan tries to cut rates before a budget agreement is enacted, the result would be a highly counterproductive rise in interest rates.
''That would be taken,'' declared Mr. Woodworth of Bankers Trust, ''as one gigantic negative signal - a caving-in by the Federal Reserve'' to the forces of inflation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); RECESSION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BONDS (77%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



357 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Chemical Bank Cuts Its Dividend As Bad Real Estate Loans Sour

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Chemical Banking Corporation announced a sharp cut in its stock dividend yesterday and a loss for the third quarter, joining a growing list of large banking companies whose problems with real estate loans have led to reduced payments to shareholders.
By cutting its dividend payments, Chemical will save $44 million a year, conserving those funds as additional capital. Greater amounts of capital provide more of a cushion for banks to absorb losses, and many analysts expect the industry's losses to grow as the economy weakens further and more borrowers default on their loans.
Chemical, the holding company for the nation's sixth-largest bank, announced a loss of $43.7 million in the third quarter, primarily because it set aside $250 million in a reserve for loan losses. Most of the increase in its troubled loans came from commercial real estate projects like office buildings in the Northeast. 
''Nobody in banking knows the extent of the risk of falling real estate prices,'' said Judah Kraushaar, a banking analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company.
 
Strategies for a Downturn
Analysts expect several other banking companies to cut their dividend payments in the months ahead. In addition, many banks will deal with the harsh operating climate by curbing their lending activities and pulling out of less profitable businesses.
Large banking companies whose dividends are vulnerable to cuts include Citicorp, Manufacturers Hanover, Bank of New York and First Chicago, analysts said. The move to cut dividends has been most common on the East Coast, where weakness in the real estate market has spread southward from New England.
Moreover, signs of weakness in California real estate have led to concerns about banks in that state, many of which have been big lenders to developers.
Companies that have recently cut dividends - an action that in past years was rare among banks - include Chase Manhattan; Midlantic and First Fidelity in New Jersey and Southeast Banking in Miami. In New England, dividends have been cut or eliminated at Bank of Boston, Shawmut and Bank of New England.
The dividend cuts have come as Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has repeatedly declared that he wants to strengthen the banking system by requiring large banks to accumulate more capital. Increasing the capital cushion in the banking system should also limit the losses of the banking industry's government-run insurance fund.
''It's a clear shift in Fed policy,'' said Walter V. Shipley, the chairman of Chemical. ''The Fed did not tell us to cut our dividend but it's clear to me that the more capital we have got, the more relaxed the Fed will be about what we can do.''
The Federal Reserve has not said when or how much it will raise capital requirements for banks. The current capital standards are to be replaced by the end of 1992 with a system that calls for capital equal to 8 percent of assets, adjusted for the risk in the assets. Some analysts have predicted that the Fed may want banks to have capital equal to 10 percent of their assets, adjusted for risk.
Chemical is already in compliance with an 8 percent standard, but Mr. Shipley said that adding to capital would give the company greater flexibility to expand its most profitable businesses. He said that cutting the dividend was the fastest, most efficient way to raise capital at a time when prices of bank stocks are extremely low and interest rates on bank bonds are extremely high.
Chemical's stock closed on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday at $14.75, down 25 cents on the day, and far below the $31.25 at which it issued 16.1 million new shares a year ago. Long-term bonds of Chemical have been trading recently with interest rates of 14 percent; by comparison, Treasury bonds are yielding slightly more than 9 percent.
The quarterly dividend for the company's biggest class of common stock was cut to 25 cents, from 68 cents. For series B stock issued in the late 1980's in exchange for shares of Texas Commerce Bancshares, the dividend was cut to 7 cents, from 19 cents.
A sharp rise in Chemical's reserves for loan losses was needed because the level of domestic loans on which interest is not being paid or that are considered troubled increased to $1.7 billion, up $222 million in the past three months. Chemical forecast that in the current quarter it would add $100 million to $125 million to its loss reserves, and that its holdings of troubled loans would rise, but to a level not much different from what it was at the end of last year.
In last year's third quarter, Chemical posted a loss of $824.6 million, reflecting large additions to its loss reserves for loans to third world countries and problems with its Texas Commerce unit.
Mr. Shipley said Chemical is not planning a new program to reduce its payroll. The company is in the last stages of a previously announced plan to cut 1,300 workers. Since 1987, it has reduced its work force by 3,800 employees, to 27,200.
 
Profit at Bank of New York
Bank of New York also reported its quarterly results yesterday. Real estate loans and loans to highly indebted corporations were a problem, though not enough to prevent a third- quarter profit. The company earned $70.6 million, or 90 cents a share, in the quarter. In the comparable period last year, Bank of New York lost $271.3 million as it set aside reserves to cover a large portion of its loans to developing countries.
In this year's third quarter, the bank set aside an additional $113 million for loan losses. Its holdings of loans that were not paying interest or facing serious trouble rose $139 million, to $1.475 billion. Loans to highly indebted companies, a sector in which Bank of New York is very active, declined to $4.47 billion, from $4.7 billion.
Although Bank of New York does not yet satisfy the 8 percent capital standard that becomes effective at the end of 1992, it has not tried to solve the problem by reducing its dividend. Earlier this week it announced that the quarterly stock dividend would be unchanged at 53 cents. On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Bank of New York shares lost 62.5 cents to close at $17.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); BK (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (73%); BAC (LSE) (73%); 8648 (TSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (73%); CHEMICAL BANK (58%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL BANK CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; DIVIDENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; REAL ESTATE DIVIDENDS (94%); REAL ESTATE (94%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



358 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
New Budget Ideas Offered as Tug-of-War Goes On

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
The budget impasse grew even more complex today as Congressional Democrats and Republicans pushed rival plans, and conflicting statements at the White House added to the air of confusion.
Democrats in the House of Representatives tonight unveiled a plan that would sharply increase taxes on wealthy Americans. That plan threatened to disrupt a new round of negotiations involving the White House and both parties in the Senate that had seemed to be making headway toward a budget agreement.
The Democratic majority on the House Ways and Means Committee approved a proposal calling for a 33 percent tax rate on income above a certain level, affecting the richest segment of the population, and a 10 percent surtax on individuals with taxable annual incomes exceeding $1 million. Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the committee's Democratic chairman, described the plan as an effort to ''restore fairness to our tax system,'' but Mr. Bush said he ''cannot accept'' it. 
 
'We Have Made Progress'
Earlier, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, had predicted that both houses of Congress would pass and President Bush would sign an agreement before the stopgap spending measure expires a week from Friday. He said the odds were 100 to 1 against its including either a capital gains cut or an increase in income tax rates for the rich.
Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Democratic leader, met with Mr. Dole, Finance Committee leaders and Richard G. Darman, the budget director. ''We believe we have made progress,'' Mr. Mitchell said afterward. The President himself had also expressed optimism about an early budget settlement. But it was not clear how rapid progress could be made with the House Democrats pulling one way and Mr. Bush and his allies pulling the other. With Capitol Hill racing to seize the initiative after two days of faltering White House leadership, the situation was in turmoil.
 
Where to Find Money
To cut the deficit by $40 billion this year and $500 billion over five years, some lawmakers predict a mix of tax increases and spending cuts, similar to the one in the original budget agreement that was rejected by the House of Representatives on Oct. 5. This could include an increase in gasoline taxes, as well as taxes on alcoholic beverages, tobacco and luxury items, combined with cuts in some domestic programs.
The new measure would probably raise Medicare premiums, but in a way that seems more palatable to lawmakers than in the deficit-reduction deal rejected last week. New cuts may strike at farm programs and other domestic measures.
Mr. Rostenkowski's plan, which may ultimately include a very limited cut in the capital gains tax, would almost certainly be opposed by Senate Democrats, who have a narrower majority and tend to be somewhat more moderate, when the bills passed by the two Houses go to conference for resolution. But if he can mobilize the large Democratic majority in the House behind his proposals, that momentum could well force the Senate to agree to some sort of tax increase upon wealthy people.
 
Political Hobson's Choice
Democratic strategists said Mr. Bush would then be faced just before the Nov. 6 elections with either signing a bill that imposed higher taxes than he wants or vetoing it and facing partisan attack as the patron of the privileged.
After another muddled day at the White House, during which President Bush's position seemed even less clear for a time than in two previous days of complete confusion, aides to the President said he hoped that the final settlement would closely resemble the one that was worked out by bipartisan negotiators over the last four and a half months, only to be rejected last week by the House of Representatives.
Mr. Bush's position, as explained by the President himself and a number of aides, seemed to have boiled down to this:
In principle, the trade would be fine, but the Democrats will not give us a capital gains rate as low as we want, and we won't give the Democrats an income tax rate as high as they want, so we had better leave those topics alone and push ahead on the rest of the deal.
Speaking in an interview during a break in intensive compromise talks, Mr. Dole suggested that Mr. Bush would get something close to what he wanted, with ''the edges smoothed off'' the original package. The smoothing, he said, would include reduced cuts in Medicare, a smaller increase in the gasoline tax and the elimination of a tax on heating oil.
 
Dole Predicts Agreement
Mr. Dole conceded that the politics of the situation ''aren't at all good for us, short range.'' But he said that if a deal was concluded - ''and we're very close to it, unless I'm blind'' - the issue would fade quickly. Then, Mr. Dole said, ''the President will get some credit, and the Congress will get some credit - mostly the President, I suppose, that's the way it always is around here.''
Like other Republicans, the Kansan said it was politically imperative that their party not seem to favor the rich.
In the House, Representative Steve Gunderson, a Republican, said he was ''sick and tired of going home to rural Wisconsin and protecting the Republican Party'' against charges that it belongs to the rich.
 
How the Day Began
The day began with Mr. Bush, who had seemed to waver between opposing and conditionally endorsing higher tax rates during the last 48 hours, meeting with House Republican leaders. Unlike their Senate counterparts, who want no changes at all in the income tax, the House Republican leaders supported a plan put forward by Representative Bill Archer of Texas, a senior Republican member of the House Ways and Means Committee.
That plan would increase from 28 percent to 31 percent the overall income tax rates for the wealthiest Americans, provided that the tax on capital gains - profits from the sales of stocks, real estate and other assets - fell to 15 percent from 28.
Standing in the White House driveway, Mr. Archer said the President had bought his idea. ''He said, without equivocation, this is what we wanted to do,'' Mr. Archer said.
But first Marlin Fitzwater, Mr. Bush's spokesman, and then Mr. Bush himself threw cold water on the idea. While acknowledging that he liked Mr. Archer's approach, the President made it clear that he could not accept Democratic proposals that would step up the tax rate for the richest taxpayers to 33 percent, rather than 31, and grant a smaller capital gains cut than Mr. Bush wants.
''My view is that it's not going to happen, and we ought to move forward on another approach,'' he told a group of Republican lawmakers in the afternoon. ''I think it's just a waste of time because it's not going to get through both houses of Congress.''
 
'The Clock's Running Out'
''There just isn't a deal there,'' said Mr. Darman in a similar vein. ''The clock's running out. We ought to put those issues aside.''
On Wednesday, the Ways and Means Committee approved a bare-bones bill that is unacceptable to both Republicans and Democrats - a shell meant to be crushed. Republicans dislike it because it has no ''growth incentives,'' such as a capital gains cut, and the Democrats don't like it because it contains regressive tax increases and other measures that would hurt the middle class.
Mr. Rostenkowski plans to bring it to the floor under a rule that will allow only two amendments - one sponsored by the Republicans and the other by the Democrats. The Democrats on Ways and Means approved part of theirs tonight.
Among other things, the Rostenkowski proposal would do the following:
* Create a 33 percent tax bracket for individuals with taxable income over $113,460 and couples with taxable income over $193,190. They now pay 28 percent. The richest 1 million to 1.5 million people would be affected.
* Impose a 10 percent surtax on people with incomes over $1 million, making their effective rate 36.3 percent.
* Raise the alternative minimum tax rate, which applies to individuals with so many deductions, exemptions and exclusions that they would otherwise avoid taxes, to 25 percent from 21 percent.
* Delay for one year the indexing of tax brackets for inflation.
* Increase the wage base for the Medicare tax to $100,000 from $51,300.
* Raise the gasoline tax by 3 cents a gallon. (The budget ''summit agreement'' called for a 12-cent increase.)
* Impose a luxury tax on expensive cars, private planes, boats, jewelry and furs.
* Raise taxes on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages.
* Increase the earned income tax credit available to the working poor.
* Keep the monthly Medicare premium (insurance against doctors' bills) at $29.90 in 1991, same as the current law, and raise it at a pace slower than the expected rate of inflation over the following four years; raise the deductible to $100 a year from $75, more generous than the summit agreement.
 
The Poor Would Benefit
Altogether, this would lower the taxes of the poorest 20 percent of taxpayers. Others would get a slight tax increase, in the 1.5 to 2.7 percent range. The wealthiest 1 percent of the population (after-tax income above about $400,000) would see their taxes increased by 6.8 percent.
Mr. Bush's aides said that the three points on which he was not prepared to budge were: that the overall budget goal of $500 billion in deficit reduction within five years must be achieved; that the balance between spending cuts and tax increases, contained in the original budget summit agreement must not be altered, and that defense spending must not be further curtailed.
''If someone wants to cut agriculture more and Medicare less, O.K.,'' one Presidential adviser said.
The same adviser commented that, after his long Washington experience, the President feels ''that things sometimes go down once or twice to defeat, but that they come back, eventually, and can be adopted more or less the same, and he'd like to see the summit plan adopted more or less the same.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush at a meeting with House Republicans yesterday. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A1); Robert H. Michel, the House minority leader, gesturing yesterday as he talked with lobbyists and Larry Harlow, right, Assistant Treasury Secretary for Legislative Affairs, after a Republican budget meeting at the White House. A group of journalists, left, gathered to hear the latest news. (Gary Geissinger for The New York Times); Bob Dole, right, the Senate minority leader, meeting whith Richard G. Darman, the budget director, and Senator Bob Packwood, left. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (85%); WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX BUDGETS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); FUEL TAX (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (64%); MEDICARE (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (78%); 



359 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Church Leaders Voice Doubts on U.S. Gulf Policy

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Protestant and Roman Catholic leaders are beginning to raise moral questions about American policy in the Persian Gulf, edging away from the general support they voiced for it two months ago and opening up a gap with their Jewish counterparts.
Virtually all American religious groups have condemned President Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait and continue to support the economic embargo aimed at forcing him to withdraw Iraqi forces. But in recent weeks many church leaders have warned against further military actions, against including food and medical supplies in the embargo, against a long-term American military presence in the gulf and against a way of life at home that leaves the nation so dependent on Middle Eastern oil.
They have also argued that a resolution of the gulf crisis demands steps toward settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, linkage that the Administration and Jewish leaders disavow. 
If this attitude runs counter to the historic tendency of churches to bless the weapons and the war aims of their governments, it fits with a strong pacifist strand in American Christianity that flourished after World War I, died down with the war against Hitler and the Cold War, and has been reinvigorated in the years since Vietnam.
Church leaders' questioning of America's gulf policy still falls short of outright opposition, and no one knows how widely these concerns are shared by average clergy members. But the movement is not limited to the traditional peace churches like the Quakers or to antiwar groups.
Last month the generally liberal National Council of Churches, which brings together 32 Protestant and Eastern Orthodox churches, spelled out many of these strictures on United States policy in a long resolution.
The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, Roger M. Mahony, who is chairman of the Catholic bishops' international policy committee, told Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d that Iraqi civilians should not be deprived of ''essentials,'' especially food and medicine, by the economic sanctions. The United Nations embargo allows Iraq to acquire as much food, medicine and medical spare parts as it needs, so long as it meets United Nations conditions.
Several influential Catholic moralists sharply condemned the statement by Gen. Michael J. Dugan that led to his dismissal as Air Force Chief of Staff: that ''the cutting edge'' of American military plans would be heavy bombing of ''downtown Baghdad.''
 
The Quiet Evangelicals
Perhaps more suprising, leaders of conservative evangelical churches, often a source of vocal support for American military intervention, have instead been subdued, either echoing some of the same cautions or simply appealing for prayer.
At a news conference here today, some Protestant and Catholic church leaders went further. Calling the gulf policy precipitate and dangerous, they urged withdrawal of American troops in favor of a multinational force and proposed a mobilization of public opinion to oppose any heightening of the conflict. ''The alleged national consensus of support for U.S. policy must be disrupted,'' said Jim Wallis, editor of the radical evangelical magazine Sojourners, which was the conference's sponsor.
Other participants were Edmond L. Browning, Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church; Thomas Gumbleton, Roman Catholic Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit, who heads Pax Christi, a Catholic peace group; Bishop Dale White of the United Methodist Church in New York; Patricia Rumer, general director of Church Women United, an interdenominational group; the Rev. James Forbes, senior pastor of the Riverside Church in Manhattan, and Joan Campbell, director of the American office of the World Council of Churches.
They criticized American policy, saying it relied on military power rather than diplomacy. Several contrasted the willingness to spend money on the Persian Gulf buildup with the limits on health and housing programs discussed in the current budget negotiations.
Between this stance and that of other church leaders is a complicated overlay of agreement and disagreement. The Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, for example, an adviser to the Catholic bishops on international affairs, calls the deployment of the forces in Saudi Arabia ''justified politically and morally.''
Writing in the coming issue of Commonweal, a liberal biweekly edited by Catholic lay people, Father Hehir says that by deterring further Iraqi aggression, the rapid deployment forestalled war and provided time for diplomacy and economic sanctions to work.
But the priest, who also teaches ethics and international affairs at Georgetown University, argues strongly against a military effort to liberate Kuwait, saying it would risk destruction out of proportion to any legitimate gains. ''War undertaken to vindicate state boundaries in the Middle East,'' he writes, ''could end by erasing most of the borders which today define the region.''
 
Threat of a 'Sawdust Hitler'
Though they disagree on the military deployment in Saudi Arabia, Bishop Gumbleton and Father Hehir forcefully condemn the idea of air attacks on Iraqi cities. Both say Catholic moral teaching would require believers to refuse orders to engage in carpet bombing or other direct attacks on civilians.
A wide range of Orthodox, Conservative and Reform Jewish rabbis and lay leaders have voiced strong support for the Administration's actions in the gulf. They, too, say they prefer a multinational force. But they support military action if necessary to counter what Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler called the ''real, immediate and ongoing'' threat posed by a ''sawdust Hitler.'' Rabbi Schindler is president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, the association of Reform synagogues.
Unlike many Christian leaders, Jewish spokesmen argue that Iraq's threat to its neighbors demonstrates that the conflict between Palestinians and Israelis conflict is not the main threat to peace in the region.
Staff members at the National Association of Evangelicals, the largest association of evangelical Protestant churches, say their leaders have been conspicuously quiet about the Gulf crisis. Brian O'Connell, who directs the association's educational program on international issues, said this silence might reflect tacit support for the Government's military policy, but might also reflect evangelical leaders' awareness that their members are divided.
 
A Call for Prayers
In August, the Rev. Billy Graham, the most respected of evangelical preachers, called the situation in the gulf ''potentially one of the most dangerous threats to world peace and stability since World War II'' and called for prayers. In late September, he called the crisis ''far more sinister and far more difficult'' than the conflicts in Korea and Vietnam.
Christianity Today, the leading evangelical weekly, will publish its first comment on the crisis on Oct. 22. The editorial issues no policy prescriptions but warns strongly against anti-Arab feelings: ''When international disputes escalate to this extent, the church has a special responsibility to douse the flames of hatred.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GULF STATES (90%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; PROTESTANT CHURCHES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT ; ISRAEL

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); JEWS ; PALESTINIANS RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CONSERVATISM (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); WORLD WAR I (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); DISMISSALS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER ; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); 



360 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Ozone Hole Reopens Over Antarctica

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE

 BODY:
A gaping hole in earth's protective ozone layer has again opened over Antarctica, and scientists reported yesterday that the depletion of ozone there seemed to be nearly as severe as it was in the worst previous years, 1987 and 1989.
This is the first time a severe Antarctic ozone hole has developed in two successive years, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Scientists worry about such holes because they imply increasing health hazards throughout the world. Ordinarily, a layer of ozone in the stratosphere prevents a dangerous form of ultraviolet radiation from the sun from reaching the earth. 
But in recent years, synthetic chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons released into the air by various human activities have reached the stratosphere, where they break apart and destroy ozone. As a result, increasing amounts of dangerous radiation reach the ground, prompting fears of an epidemic of skin cancer and cataracts, and damage to crops, notably soybeans.
 
Extent Is Unknown
The exact geographic extent and overall depletion of ozone in this year's hole have not yet been determined, but Dr. David J. Hofmann, an aeronomist at the University of Wisconsin, said that balloon-borne instruments have found no ozone at all in a layer of atmosphere between 9.3 and 10.8 miles above the Antarctic continent. But above this level some ozone appears to remain, he said.
Aeronomists are not yet sure whether this trace of high-altitude ozone extends over the whole continent, but if it does, this year's ozone depletion may be somewhat less severe than that of 1987, the worst year on record.
Dr. Mark Schoeberl of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center said the minimum value of the ozone shield over Antarctica this year fell to 123 Dobson units on Oct. 4. Dobson units are a measure of the ability of the atmosphere to absorb certain wavelengths of light, especially in the ultraviolet range. When the ozone layer was intact, normal readings above Antarctica reached 500 Dobson units. In 1987 and 1989 they fell to about 115.
''An Antarctic ozone hole in 1990 comes as a surprise to some scientists,'' Dr. Schoeberl said.
 
Monitored Since 1979
Seasonal Antarctic ozone depletion has been monitored since 1979 using NASA's Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer, an instrument carried by the Nimbus-7 satellite. Its measurements are supplemented by ground-based instruments that measure the intensity of ultraviolet radiation reaching the ground, and by high-altitude balloons launched from Antarctica by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Each time the ozone hole has occurred since its first appearance in 1987, it has appeared in late August -early spring in the Southern Hemisphere - and dispersed in early October. Many scientists believed that the holes occur in odd-numbered years but are apt to be less severe or nonexistent in even-numbered years.
An exception was Dr. James K. Angel of Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Air Resources Laboratory in Silver Spring, Md., who published a paper predicting that this year's hole would be severe. Dr. Hofmann said yesterday that this year's hole appears to confirm Dr. Angel's prediction and the theory underlying it.
Dr. Angel said in a telephone interview that while most investigators based their predictions about the Antarctic ozone hole on calculations derived from wind patterns in the stratosphere, his own calculations were based more on temperature patterns in the stratosphere. In June through August, the temperature of the stratosphere was higher than normal, and so were temperatures at the surface. This coincidence, Dr. Angel said, led to his unorthodox prediction of an ozone hole this year, published last month in the journal Geophysical Research Papers.
 
World Accord on a Halt
Seasonal ozone depletion over Antarctica - and a less severe depletion in the high Arctic - concern scientists because they imply a thinning of the ozone layer throughout the world. Worried leaders of most of the world's governments have agreed that chlorofluorocarbon production and use must be halted, but even if the phasing-out of these chemicals proceeds on schedule, the ozone layer will remain severely depleted well into the next century.
On June 29, senior government leaders from more than 90 nations agreed in London to hasten the halt in global production and use of chlorofluorocarbons. Joining the agreement were China and India, which had previously declined to curb the chemicals. Their change followed agreement by the United States and other Western nations to contribute to an international fund intended to relieve the economic burden imposed on the third world by a ban.
Chlorofluorocarbons have many important applications, especially as refrigerant gases in refrigerators and air conditioners, and as foaming agents in insulating plastic materials.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 12 about the ozone "hole" over Antarctica misstated an affiliation of Dr. David J. Hofmann. He is a faculty member, on leave, at the University of Wyoming, not the University of Wisconsin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Oct. 3 satellite readings of ozone levels over Antarctica showed very low levels in dark patch and surrounding ring, outlined at center; white spot is missing data. (NASA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ANTARCTICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (58%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (83%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA); NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARCTIC REGIONS

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; OZONE OZONE DEPLETION (93%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (76%); SPECTROSCOPES & SPECTROMETERS (75%); SKIN CANCER (71%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W JAMES K ANGEL (72%); 



361 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Releases 2 Japanese; 'Humanitarian' Gesture Is Praised

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 11

 BODY:
North Korea today released two Japanese sailors seized as spies seven years ago, prompting Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu and other Japanese politicians to praise the totalitarian Government in Pyongyang for its ''humanitarian consideration.''
The freeing of the two sailors, though widely expected, was seen as a significant gesture of conciliation that helped clear the way for talks between Japan and North Korea aimed at eventually restoring diplomatic relations after 45 years of hostility.
The release was foreshadowed last month during discussions in Pyongyang between President Kim Il Sung of North Korea and a delegation of political leaders that apparently marked a shift in North Korea's generally antagonistic attitude toward Japan.
The two sailors, Isamu Beniko and Yoshio Kuriura, the skipper and chief engineer of a Japanese freighter, were seized on espionage charges in 1983, apparently in retaliation against the defection of a North Korean soldier who had stowed away aboard a Japanese vessel stopping in North Korea. 
 
Limits on Sailors' Remarks
The two Japanese sailors were later sentenced to 15 years of hard labor, and their release has been a persistent demand by Tokyo as a prerequisite to improving relations with Pyongyang.
The sailors returned home amid intense public attention, accompanied by Ichiro Ozawa, secretary general of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, and Takako Doi, chairwoman of the Japan Socialist Party. At Haneda Airport, they had an emotional reunion with their families before going for medical checkups.
Japanese news reports said the final release was made possible when Miss Doi and Mr. Ozawa, normally political opponents, agreed to work out a joint statement expressing thanks to North Korea's governing Korean Workers Party for their release.
The news accounts also said that North Korea had sought Japanese assurances that the two sailors would refrain from criticism of their treatment to avoid disrupting coming negotiations, but that Mr. Ozawa rejected such proposals.
 
U.S. Role in Koreas
Despite the release of the sailors, diplomats say a difficult road lies ahead for efforts to improve relations between North Korea and Japan. A senior Japanese official said Tokyo wanted to make sure that its efforts did not undercut the recent efforts by South Korea to reduce its own tensions with its northern neighbor.
North and South Korea had a breakthrough in their traditionally hostile relations last month, with the first meeting of their Prime Ministers. The second round of talks is scheduled for next week in Pyongyang.
Neither side has altered its longstanding position, and North Korea continues to demand the expulsion of American troops and a ban on American nuclear weapons in the region as a prerequisite for improved relations.
A close reading of the joint statement from North Korea and Japan last month indicated to some Japanese diplomats that North Korea also wants Tokyo to endorse its call for removing the American presence, including nuclear weapons, from the region.
 
Overtures to Adversaries
Japanese officials say that if such demands prove to be the position of Pyongyang in actual negotiations, they cannot be accepted. But Japan has signaled its willingness to apologize to North Korea for its past colonization of the Korean peninsula and to come up with a large package of financial assistance.
There have been reports in the press that in the second round of talks the South Korean Government of President Roh Tae Woo may make its own conciliatory gesture, like releasing anti-Government leftist dissidents in South Korea.
North Korea has begun in recent months to reach out to its former adversaries as its two most important patrons, the Soviet Union and China, have begun to improve ties with South Korea. This month, South Korea and the Soviet Union announced that they would establish diplomatic relations.
North Korea is generally believed to be reaching out for help for its sagging economy, which has sputtered along at about a 3 percent growth rate a year, compared with 9 percent a year for South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ESPIONAGE POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (62%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN) KAIFU TOSHIKI (74%); TAKAKO DOI (67%); KIM JONG IL (57%); 



362 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Quebec Indians Ponder True Cost of Electricity

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GREAT WHALE, Quebec, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Chief Robbie Dick has seen the future and he wants no part of it. Neither do most of the 500 Cree Indians he represents in this remote northern Quebec village on the eastern shore of Hudson Bay.
To the Cree Indians in Great Whale, the future may mean an end to the hunting, trapping and fishing that have defined their way of life for 5,000 years. Traditions are already eroding, particularly among the young, as contacts with white society grow. The Crees put the blame on one of Canada's most powerful companies: Hydro-Quebec.
The giant utility, owned by the province, wants to expand its hydroelectric operations in northern Quebec dramatically by building dams on the Great Whale River, a focus of Cree life. Hydro-Quebec contemplates flooding several hundred square miles and altering the flow of 300 miles of wild river, actions conservationists say would cut out the ecological heart of a rocky region the size of Massachusetts, Vermont and New Hampshire. 
''It's very hard to explain to white people what we mean by 'Land is part of our life,' '' Chief Dick said. ''We're like rocks and trees. We know we're running out of time.''
But there is more at stake than preserving the traditions of several hundred Indians. Electricity rates in New York and New England are also involved.
 
Rise in Rates Hinted
New York State and New England utilities are eager for Hydro-Quebec to expand so they can be assured the Canadian utility will have enough surplus power to sell them. The Northeastern utilities, which have had contracts with Hydro-Quebec since the 1970's, say buying the Canadian electricity is cheaper than building new power plants. If such purchases are not made, electric rates in the Northeast could rise, they assert.
What the Cree and the 400 members of the other indigenous population here, the Eskimos, fear most is the loss of the land on which their culture is built. Many were born in the bush and continue to spend months at a time there, hunting and fishing the same expanse of lakes, black spruce and caribou moss that their ancestors inhabited.
Aided by environmentalists, the Crees are fighting Hydro-Quebec's expansion plans in Federal and provincial courts and through a public relations campaign.
Hydro-Quebec, which had hoped to complete work in 1998, also faces government environmental reviews that could delay construction for several years. In the meantime, the company wants to start building a 100-mile-long road north to Great Whale next year, but that also faces an environmental review.
Great Whale would be constructed north of Hydro-Quebec's La Grande complex, already one of the world's largest hydroelectric projects. Another hydroelectric project, called Nottaway-Broadback-Rupert, is planned south of La Grande. The combined expansion would add 41 percent to the utility's generating capacity. Expansion is necessary, the utility says, because Quebec's energy demand is growing quickly.
 
'It's All Under Water'
The La Grande River, which powers the huge complex's turbines, empties into James Bay, the fingertip jutting from Hudson Bay that has become identified with Hydro-Quebec's Northern Quebec push. Since construction of La Grande got under way more than 15 years ago, Cree and Inuit leaders say, the native communities and environment have changed for the worse.
''The Cree life was more at ease before the coming of the white man,'' John Petagumskum, a 70-year-old Great Whale resident, said through a translator.
Reservoir creation eliminated or disrupted many traditional hunting and trapping grounds, the Crees say. In Chisasibi, near La Grande, many Crees can't go back to where their ancestors used to hunt. ''It's all under water,'' said Matthew Coon Come, Grand Chief of the Grand Council of the Crees, who number 10,000 in Quebec.
Mercury released from rotting vegetation in the new reservoirs has contaminated fish, a Cree staple. More than anything, though, the native culture has been buffeted. In less than a generation, people have gone from living in shacks with no electricity to fully furnished homes.
Hydro-Quebec officials acknowledge some environmental damage - they have no immediate solution to the mercury problem - and elimination of some traditional hunting grounds. But they say the concerns have been overstated and that native people have been helped by the James Bay project. Roads have made the territory more accessible for hunting, they say, and health services and education have also improved.
 
Land Rights for $263 Million
Change came fast after Hydro-Quebec began building a 375-mile road north into Cree country in the early 1970's to permit construction of the La Grande complex.
The Crees wanted no part of development and fought it in the courts to no avail. In 1975, as part of a resolution of land disputes spanning decades, they signed an agreement under which they gave up claims to all but 5,400 of 410,000 million square miles. The natives have hunting privileges on the land they gave up, but development is permitted, Hydro-Quebec says. The Crees, in pending law suits, dispute that.
In return for giving up land claims, Canada, Quebec and Hydro-Quebec contributed $263 million to the Crees and the Eskimos who call themselves Inuit. Self-administration also was part of the package.
Besides the electricity sales to the United States, the battle between the native peoples and Hydro-Quebec has broader implications for Quebec and Canada.
In the past, few in this French-speaking province have stood up to Hydro-Quebec, a proud symbol of French economic strength in a nation dominated until recently by English companies. Now, Quebecers are taking a closer look at the company and the influential role it plays in the province's economy.
In the middle of the debate are Great Whale's Cree community, the northernmost of Quebec's nine Cree bands, and the Eskimo community, the southernmost of 14 groups.
 
Two Local Radio Stations
No roads lead to Great Whale, about 650 miles from Montreal. Visitors must come by air or boat. Fifteen years ago, this sandy speck on the windy shores of Hudson Bay was little more than a collection of shacks. Today, however, in the aftermath of the 1975 agreement, Great Whale has about 150 new one- and two-story homes and more on the way. From a nerby hill, it looks like a rambling trailer park, a place not yet comfortable with permanence. In fact, 40 percent of the population still ventures into the bush for prolonged stays.
There are many other concessions to 1990's living. Two local radio stations broadcast in Cree and Inuktituk, the Eskimo language. Satellite dishes deliver television signals to homes. All-terrain vehicles are ubiquitous. There are Cree and Eskimo businesses, including two airlines.
Two well-supplied general stores sell such things as Pringles potato chips and television sets. Residents can rent movies on video cassette or buy tapes of best-selling pop-music albums in the United States, including M. C. Hammer's ''Please Hammer Don't Hurt'em.''
Robbie Niquanicappo, a 31-year-old Cree leader in Great Whale, expressed the Indians' ambivalence about the new world.
''We adapted - why walk when you can ride a Ski-Doo?'' he said, referring to a snowmobile. ''Why paddle when you can fly?''
 
Cocaine Busts Cited
In the years since Hydro-Quebec's presence became felt, alcohol abuse has become a problem, particularly among younger people, Mr. Niquanicappo said. And, he added, ''There have been cocaine busts here.''
About 65 percent of the Crees are 25 years old or younger. And they are much less inclined to spend their lives in the bush, even though there are not enough jobs for them in the village. The population is growing quickly because medicl care has improved and the infant mortality rate declined.
Television was criticized by several people as a bad influence on young people. ''T.V. has been one of the most damaging things to the community'' since it arrived 10 years ago,'' Mr. Niquanicappo said. ''It warps the values.''
He recalled his four-year-old son's comments after watching a news program. ''Mom, police have sticks, they go like this,'' Mr. Niquanicappo said, simulating a beating. ''That's pretty sad to see in a four-year-old.'' But he added, ''My son likes his Ninja Turtles.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cree Indians in Great Whale, Quebec, above, on the eastern shore of Hudson Bay, say the planned expansion of hydroelectric operations in northern Quebec by the province's giant utility, including altering the flow of 300 miles of river, threatens their 5,000-year-old way of life.; ''We know we're running out of time,'' said Chief Robbie Dick. (Photographs by Allan R. Gold/The New York Times); map of Canada showing locations of Nottaway-Broadback-Rupert Project Area, La Grande Project Area, Great Whale, Great Whale Project Area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARCTIC OCEAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (59%); 

COMPANY: HYDRO-QUEBEC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HYDRO QUEBEC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA); NEW YORK STATE; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US)

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; CREE INDIANS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; HYDROELECTRIC POWER NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); UTILITY RATES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); RIVERS (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); SPORT HUNTING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); POWER PLANTS (70%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 



363 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Britain Sees Gulf Blockade Deadline

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
The British Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, said today that the American-led forces arrayed against Iraq in the Persian Gulf would have to decide ''in a matter of weeks'' whether economic sanctions should give way to war to force President Saddam Hussein of Iraq to pull his troops out of Kuwait.
''I am suggesting that the military option exists,'' Mr. Hurd told the British Broadcasting Corporation. Speaking of Mr. Hussein, he said, ''I think there is just a chance, I wouldn't put it a great deal higher than that, that once he is clear in his own mind, certain that if he doesn't go in peace he will be forced out, that he will go.''
Asked when the policy of sanctions would be reconsidered, he said, ''In a matter of weeks.'' He said the allies would have to ''take stock whether these pressures are going to do the job or whether the military option will have to be prepared.'' 
Mr. Hurd's remarks were broadcast on BBC television hours after 321 evacuees from Iraqi-occupied Kuwait arrived here, describing continued clashes between the Kuwaiti resistance and Iraqi troops and a deteriorating situation for the local population and the several hundred Americans and other Westerners they left behind.
 
Kuwaiti Resistance Reported
The pace of the Iraqi dismantling of Kuwait's economy would be a factor in any calculation of whether to use force to oust Iraq, which invaded on Aug. 2.
The refugees, who included 271 who are Americans or related to Americans as well as 50 other evacuees from Britain, Canada, and various other countries, arrived at Gatwick Airport here on an American-chartered Iraqi Airlines flight from Basra and Baghdad just after 6 A.M. today. It was the first such flight in nearly three weeks.
''We have seen so many Iraqi Army trucks and jeeps destroyed on the streets,'' said Mohammad Issa, a language teacher from Bridgeport, Conn. who arrived this morning with his wife, father and brother. ''We know who is doing it. It is the Kuwaiti resistance. It is a group of Kuwaitis combined with some other nationalities.''
Mr. Issa said that living conditions in Kuwait were ''miserable, with people having to stand in line for bread, for gas, for everything.''
 
Iraqis 'Taking Everything'
''Food is very difficult to get,'' another man who did not give his name said before boarding a bus at the airport. ''It takes a day just to get a piece of bread and a piece of chicken.''
Alison al-Haider, a 27-year-old Briton whose Kuwaiti husband, Adnan, is still there, told the Press Association: ''I have heard a lot of rumors about killings of Kuwaitis. It is terrible to have to leave my husband over there.'' She arrived this morning with her children Sarah, 2, and Omar, 4.
Natasha Asfari, a Canadian, told the Press Association that ''the Iraqis are taking everything.'' She continued: ''People are having to go by bus to Basra to buy food. The Iraqis have destroyed shopping centers, but there is still food if you search for it.''
The evacuees looked tired from their journey, and an American Embassy spokeswoman, Charla Hatton, said the Americans had decided not to go on to the United States today, as originally planned, but to rest overnight before the final leg of their journey.
 
Briton to Meet Hussein
Michelle Darr, of Portland, Ore., said it had taken all day Wednesday for the group to reach Basra by bus. They had had to go there from Kuwait after Iraqi authorities closed the airport in Kuwait City earlier this week, after American authorities had made arrangements for the evacuation flight.
Mrs. Darr, who arrived with her husband and 8-month-old daughter, said the Iraqis had taken some passengers off the bus in Kuwait but had let them rejoin the group later, as far as she knew.
American officials said that from 650 to 700 Americans remained in Iraq and Kuwait. The British Foreign Office said earlier this week that Iraq was holding about 280 British men as hostages, with about 700 others remaining voluntarily in Kuwait and 400 in Iraq.
A former Conservative Prime Minister, Edward Heath, broke ranks with the Thatcher Government today and announced that he would travel to Baghdad over the weekend to talk with President Hussein about the British hostages.
 
Unsuccessful Appeals to Hussein
Mr. Heath, who in recent weeks has said the West should couple its demands for Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait with an offer of negotiations over Iraq's territorial claims there, said that he would be going on a humanitarian mission after appeals from the families of sick and dying British hostages in Iraq and Kuwait.
One British hostage, William Atack of Scotland, died in Kuwait of natural causes last month. Another is said to be suffering from terminal cancer but has not yet been allowed to leave.
Jenny Stenton, who recently appealed to President Hussein to let her husband come home with her, arrived this morning without him but with their 1-month-old son, Craig, and infant daughter, Kelly. Christine Pedley, who had also appealed on behalf of her husband, was likewise unsuccessful and arrived this morning with her 12-day-old daughter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robbie Faddah of Houston holding her daughter, Laila, as she and her husband, Hani, talked with reporters yesterday after arriving on a chartered flight from Baghdad at Gatwick Airport near London. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GULF STATES (90%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (86%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); REFUGEES (72%); AIRLINES (63%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; HURD, DOUGLAS (SEC); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 



364 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Drive Mounted for Environment Vote

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Amid signs that a far-reaching environmental measure on the California ballot is faltering, three national leaders of the environmental movement declared today that the state faced an environmental crisis. They announced the start of a door-to-door drive for the measure.
They charged that eight oil and chemical companies that have contributed nearly $3 million to an advertising campaign to kill the voter-initiated measure were among the worst polluters in California and the nation. The measure would impose the strictest environmental controls in the country, banning many common pesticides and requiring drastic reductions in carbon dioxide emissions, among many other things. 
While none of the environmental leaders would concede the measure, which they call Big Green, was in trouble, many in the movement fear a loss would seriously slow the national political momentum for ecological causes. The vote is shaping up as a major test of whether the public's general desire for a cleaner environment is matched by willingness to pay for it.
 
Opponents Tell of Job Loss
Industry groups have mounted a withering advertising drive against it, charging that the measure tries to do too much and will raise water and power rates and cost jobs in manufacturing and agriculture. While there have been no recent statewide polls on the measure, political experts believe its once huge margin of support has eroded substantially in recent weeks.
''Much is at stake in this fight, both for California and the entire nation,'' John Adams of New York, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said at a news conference at the Sierra Club's headquarters in San Francisco. ''Big Green is perhaps our best chance to translate the shift in public consciousness about the environment into political change.''
He was joined by Jay Hair, president of the 5.8-million-member National Wildlife Federation, from Washington, and Michael L. Fisher, executive director of the Sierra Club, which has 200,000 members in California. Absent from the conference, and a similar one in Los Angeles, was Assemblyman Tom Hayden of Santa Monica, chairman of the steering committee running the campaign. Opponents have tagged the measure ''the Hayden initiative'' in the hope that voters will tend to oppose it if it is linked to the former anti-Vietnam War leader. #750,000 Members Alterted Expecting to be greatly outspent, the environmental leadership said it was mounting a statewide effort to get out the ''green'' vote with the help 750,000 members of environmental groups. The Sierra Club said it would call on its 11 chapters to man telephone banks, hand out leaflets at shopping centers, movie lines and street fairs and participate in local debates.
At the same time, the natural resources council released a report stating that the fast-growing state faced alarming environmental degradation. ''California's environment and quality of life are in serious peril from the combined and continuous pollution of our air, drinking water, food supply, rivers, lakes and coastline,'' said the report, compiled by council staff members. It asserted that 227 million pounds of chemical pollutants are released annually in California.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Adams said that a direct voter measure was the only way to tackle these problems because ''special interests'' had thwarted efforts to pass laws in Congress and the State Legislature.
The environmental leaders said major contributors to the campaign to defeat Proposition 128, as it appears on the ballot, are makers of pesiticides and other toxic chemicals. They said the Monsanto Company, which has contributed $405,000, is the sole manufacturer of the pesticide alachlor. They said alachlor was ''a probable human carcinogen'' that had contaminated ground and surface water in the Midwest. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, which has given $365,000, released 1,084,000 pounds of toxic chemicals in California in 1988, they said.
The other six companies the environmentalists said had paid for the advertising were the Chevron Corporation, Dow Elanco Inc, Rhone-Poulenc S.A., Ciba-Geigy International AG, ICI Americas and ARCO and its sister company, the ARCO ChemicalCompany.
Don Schrack, the spokesman for the chemical-industry backed group called ''No on 128,'' said the backers of the referendum had made a strategic decision to avoid discussing its lack of merit.
The measure, which runs nearly 30,000 words, would substantially rewrite California environmental law, cobbling together an array of loosely connected laws. Among other things, it would phase out pesticides - just how many is at issue - that cause cancer or birth defects, strictly limit discharges of pollutants into coastal waters and phase out chemicals believed to deplete the earth's protective ozone layer. It would create an elected ''environmental advocate'' with special legal powers and require a state plan to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent by the year 2000 and 40 percent by 2010, adjusted for population growth as necessary.
 
Study Cites High Costs
Critics maintain the law is grounded in no reliable science and asks voters to impose huge costs on local governments and businesses. The critics also contend the measure would even undermine American competitiveness in international trade by establishing different food standards for the huge California market.
According to a study by DRI/McGraw-Hill a Boston-based economic consulting concern, complying with the carbon dioxide provision would raise gasoline and diesel fuel taxes by 50 cents a gallon, require an investment of up to $50 billion to build high-speed trains between major cities, increase the use of nuclear power and slow California economic growth to about 65 percent of the national average from 150 percent.
''Clearly these numbers generate a great deal of concern,'' said Victor F. Weisser, president of the California Council for Environmental and Economic Balance, a coalition of industry and labor groups that commissioned the study. The council has not taken a formal position on the proposition.
Backers of the referendum say claims of huge costs are overblown.dEli Lilly(Dow Elanco)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (52%); SIERRA CLUB (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; REFERENDUMS ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); PESTICIDES (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); WILDLIFE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); DISMISSALS (67%); UTILITY RATES (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); RETAILERS (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT



365 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE: Washington Talk;
Modifying Medicare: No Dice Once Again

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Of all the fiscal powders that turned the recent budget summit to budget bomb, perhaps none proved more explosive than the plan to cut Medicare. In the resulting detritus lie lessons of budgetary politics.
President Bush and the Congressional negotiators lit the fuse when they proposed what many saw as modest increases in the amount that recipients of Medicare pay for their benefits. They sought to raise monthly premiums to $34, from $28, and to increase yearly deductibles to $150, from $75, over five years. 
''Devastating,'' said Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, the West Virginia Democrat who heads the Senate Finance subcommittee overseeing the program.
''Chicanery,'' said Ronald Pollack of the Families USA Foundation, one of about 100 advocacy groups that banded together to help defeat the plan.
Enough of Congress agreed to send the Medicare proposals, and the rest of the summit meeting's work, into early retirement.
The more modest Medicare alterations now under discussion are almost certain to demand less from the elderly and more from the work force whose payroll taxes help support the program.
Were Yogi Berra in town, he might call the situation deja vu all over again: another demonstration of the power of entitlements for the elderly, and lobbyists for the elderly. But there are other questions. Are entitlements for the elderly affordable, as they are now run? And are they fair?
Taken together, Social Security ($264 billion) and Medicare ($114 billion) account for 28 percent of the entire $1.35 trillion Federal budget projected for 1991. Or after subtracting military spending and interest, the programs would cost more than 4 of every 10 Federal dollars.
That kind of spending cramps other social spending, leaving less to build housing, fight infant mortality, provide better schools, battle drug abuse and otherwise invest in the future.
It also raises important questions about equity between the generations. Both Social Security and Medicare offer the elderly benefits that far exceed their earlier contributions as workers, even after inflation is accounted for.
More important, in the eyes of some of the programs' critics, neither program distinguishes between those elderly who truly need the benefits and those who do not.
Many Washington analysts say the failure to make the distinction between, say, the $350-a-month pensioners in Miami Beach and the more fortunate retiree in Palm Beach is the main flaw in the programs, and the key to fixing them. But part of the problem with the summit proposal was that it, too, treated virtually all the elderly alike.
There were other options. By contrast, for instance, the budget negotiators might have assigned Medicare an actuarial value and asked recipients to pay taxes on it. Thus, only those with enough income to pay taxes would be affected. The Congressional Budget Office estimated earlier this year that $17 billion over five years could be raised this way. The budget office estimates that modest increases in the portion of Social Security subject to taxation could raise $20 billion in the same period.
But such proposals never came to the table, and it takes only a short memory to guess why. In 1988, Congress passed a bill that offered the elderly increased protection from the catastrophic costs of long-term hospitalization. It financed the expanded benefits by a surtax on the elderly, capped at $800 a year for those with incomes of more than $35,000. Led by Washington advocacy groups, the elderly raised an outcry so strong that a year later Congress repealed its own legislation by large margins.
Whenever there are efforts to modify the entitlement programs to make them less generous to the affluent, critics quickly charge that they are being gutted through ''means testing'' - being downgraded to welfare programs, some say. But it is unclear how much longer Congress can continue to provide benefits without regard for need.
Some projections show one Medicare trust fund approaching bankruptcy by the end of the decade. So today's skirmishes may be harbingers of things to come.
''We can no longer afford to treat the wealthy dowager living with an inheritance the same as we treat the little old lady on a fixed income in a cold-water flat,'' said Jack Meyer, president of New Directions for Policy, a Washington consulting organization. ''But Congress is still clinging to that outmoded idea.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (51%); MEDICARE (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; AGED; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS BUDGETS (91%); MEDICARE (90%); AGING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EARLY RETIREMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); CORPORATE TAX (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (64%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%); 



366 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
In a Survey, Americans Wish a Pox On Both Congress and the President

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Four weeks before the midterm elections, the American public is in a discontented mood, with 60 percent saying they disapprove of the way Congress is doing its job and more than two-thirds saying it is time to replace most members of Congress, a New York Times/ CBS News Poll has found But people still look more kindly on their own members of Congress than on Congress in general, and the forces protecting incumbent House members are formidable, from superior war chests to the perquisites of office. Moreover, there is little for the White House to gloat about in all the bashing of Congress.
Despite the public's irritation with Congress, 55 percent said they still trusted it to do a better job in cutting the Federal deficit than President Bush, while just 24 percent said Mr. Bush would do a better job.
Congress's approval rating was 27 percent, down sharply from January's level of 42 percent. While there was clear and pervasive concern about the economy, Congress's stock was equally low among those who thought the United States was in a recession and those who disagreed. 
 
Congress and Special Interests
The portrait of Congress that emerged from many people was of a body driven by special interests and by the lawmakers' own concerns, rather than those of the people who sent them there.
Many people seemed to be saying a pox on both branches of government. In follow-up interviews after the poll was completed, Lance D. Deroucher, a 32-year-old Republican from Utica, N.Y., asserted that Congress and the President were ''acting like a bunch of kids, bickering back and forth.''
There are many crosscurrents in the public's attitude toward their Congress members, according to this telephone survey of 960 adults on Oct. 8-10, while the White House was repeatedly shifting its position on the tax measures it would accept and negotiations with Congress were in turmoil. The poll also examined in-depth attitudes toward the President; the results of that part of the survey will be made public within a few days.
People still draw a distinction between Congress as a whole and their own individual member of Congress: Forty-four percent say their own representative deserves re-election, while 40 percent say they would prefer somebody new, even in their own district.
This swings overwhelmingly when people are asked to consider Congress as a whole: 20 percent say most lawmakers deserve re-election, while 67 percent say it is time ''to give new people a chance.'' The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 
Influence of the Wealthy
''It's more a matter of punishment than that the new people would necessarily be better,'' said Vinny M. Boland, 31 years old, who owns a sign-making company in Miramar, Fla., and described himself as an independent voter from a Democratic family. ''The wealthy and the special interests will still sway whoever is in ofice and get their point across. But if elected officials know they're vulnerable, maybe they won't give as much.''
Still, the re-election rate for House incumbents in the last two elections was 98 percent. And Common Cause, the Washington group lobbying for new campaign finance laws, recently asserted that most incumbents were protected by ''a wall of political money that makes them nearly invincible.''
Of 405 House incumbents seeking re-election this fall, Common Cause classified nearly three-fourths of them as ''financially unopposed'' - either with no challenger at all from a major party, or with a challenger who had raised less than $25,000 as the fall campaign began, hardly enough to mount a vigorous effort.
However it is translated at the polls, there is a sour mood in the land. Voters were asked if they thought government ''is pretty much run by a few big interests looking out for themselves,'' or run ''for the benefit of all the people?''
That question has been asked periodically by the Times/CBS News Poll and by the Survey Research Center of the University of Michigan, and the current level of cynicism matches the previous high-water mark set in 1980, at the end of the Carter Administration: 71 percent said this week that Government was controlled by big interests, compared with 21 percent who saw a government run for the people.
Similarly, 58 percent said most members of Congress were more interested in serving themselves than in serving the people they represent. And 71 percent said they thought most lawmakers were more interested in serving special interest groups than serving the people.
''To get into office, you have to have a lot of backing,'' said Marcella Fowkes, 58, of Pittsburgh. ''I think that they owe a lot of favors to the big oil companies, and the other ones backing them.''
Another reflection of this mood was the strong support for a 12-year limit on service in Congress: 56 percent backed it, compared with 37 percent who said members should be able to serve as long as they are able to get re-elected.
 
'Out of Touch'
''Congressmen should not be in office for 30 years,'' said Gary Ostermueller, 32, a Republican who is a sales manager from Metuchen, N.J. ''The longer they're in Washington, the more they get out of touch with the people back home.''
Still, there were glimmers of trust. Fifty-one percent, for example, said they thought Congress made ''the right decisions most of the time,'' while 22 percent said they thought lawmakers made the wrong decisions.
Mildred Tudor, 72, a retiree in Newton Center, Mass., said: ''I think that they want to get to the right thing, but other things get in their way, especially in an election year. They could come up with a solution to the budget but they don't want to hurt their image.''
After weeks of feuding over the budget between Congress and the White House, 64 percent said they blamed both branches of Government for the fiscal impasse, while 24 percent said they blamed Congress and 6 percent blamed Mr. Bush.
But of those blaming Congress, most said it was the fault of both the Republicans and the Democrats on Capitol Hill.
On the tenor of this year's campaigns, 23 percent said they thought they were more negative that past campaigns, 11 percent more positive and 61 percent about the same.
 
Assessing Congress: Mixed Reviews
 
Do you approve or disapprove of the way Congress is handling its job?
Approve 27%
Disapprove 60%
 
Do you think most members of Congress are more interested in serving the people they represent, or more interested in serving special interest groups?
People 20%
Special Interests 71%
 
Do you think Congress makes the right decisions most of the time, or the wrong decisions most of the time?
Right 51%
Wrong 22%
Both 16%
 
Over all, who do you think would make better decisions about what to do to reduce the Federal budget deficit, George Bush or Congress?
Bush 24%
Congress 55%
 
Should the terms of embers of Congress be limited to a total of 12 years, or should they be able to serve as long as they are able to get re-elected?
Limited 56%
Unlimited 37%
 
Based on interviews with 960 adults nationwide conducted by telephone Oct. 8-10. Those with no opinion are not shown.

GRAPHIC: Charts showing the percentage of total registered voters who would vote for Democrat or Republican; the percentage of people who feel that most members of Congress, and the representative of Congress should be re-elected or whether new people should be given a chance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 



367 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
Pentagon Finds an Odd Ally in Iraq for Budget-Cutting Talks

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Because of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, the Defense Department has emerged so far from the chaotic budget process with more modest cuts in military spending than seemed likely in early summer.
''A lot of members find it difficult to make significant cuts as long as the gulf crisis is going on,'' said William W. Kaufmann, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
House liberals have voiced dismay that the Defense Department has escaped the brunt of larger cuts. ''Everyone over here is stunned that this came out so well for the Pentagon,'' said Representative Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado. 
Even so, decisions on how to apportion this year's money have provoked a bare-knuckles fight between Senate and House negotiators who are working out a conference agreement. The debate has been particularly fierce over money for the radar-evading Stealth, or B-2, bomber and the ''Star Wars'' anti-missile program, as well as over the magnitude of troop cuts.
 
No Guarantees After '91
Pentagon spending for the fiscal year 1991, which began Oct. 1, as established in the revised budget resolution approved on Monday, would be virtually unchanged from the original ill-fated budget compromise of the week before.
And the spending level seems likely to withstand efforts by some Congress members to make deeper cuts this year.
But the resolution's projected spending for 1992 and 1993 are anything but guaranteed.
''We'll be free to revisit these matters and reduce defense spending,'' said Senator Jim Sasser, a Tennessee Democrat who as chairman of the Senate Budget Committee is one of many lawmakers who remind people that the budget resolution sets ceilings on spending, not floors.
The newly forged agreement would allow spending of $288.3 billion in 1991, a reduction of $18.6 billion from what the Bush Administration proposed and a cut of 8 percent from the 1990 budget, as calculated in constant 1990 dollars and adjusted for inflation.
 
Outlook Last Spring
In the earlier budget compromise between the White House and Congressional leaders, which fell to defeat in the House, Democrats agreed to cut military spending by 3 percent in 1992 to 3.6 percent in 1993 in 1992 and 1993, again in constant dollars.
They made slight additional trims over the next three years in the revised plan. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney had proposed 2 percent annual reductions in the Administration's budget request.
While that may sound like a setback for the Administration, the cuts could could have been much deeper. By last spring, when the Soviet threat in Europe was quickly receding and efforts to slash Pentagon spending were gaining momentum, it had become increasingly clear that the Administration's numbers were unrealistic.
The only question left was whose budget levels would be embraced by the Democratic-controlled Congress: those of the Senate Armed Services Committee and its chairman, Sam Nunn of Georgia, or the much deeper cuts proposed by the House Armed Services Committee and its chairman, Representative Les Aspin of Wisconsin.
 
Changed Overnight
The Senate bill called for a $289 billion military budget for 1991, while the House plan was for $283 billion.
The size and type of cuts proposed by the House prompted Mr. Cheney to recommend that President Bush veto the legislation if it was approved by Congress. In the usual course of political horse-trading, the House and Senate would have compromised and emerged with a military budget somewhere in the middle.
But on Aug. 2 that all changed. Iraq's invasion of Kuwait suddenly curbed the appetite of many lawmakers for deeper cuts.
Even before the White House and Congressional meetings on the overall Government budget, Congressional officials said the invasion had moved the military spending debate closer to the Senate's levels.
Under pressure from the Administration and having a desire to spare cuts in domestic spending, the Congressional budget negotiators agreed on a formula that bore a striking resemblance to the Senate figures.
Even when that package collapsed, Democrats and Republicans balked at deeper Pentagon spending cuts, instead making only slight trims.
 
Domestic Programs Lose Out
Not surprisingly, even before the Iraqi invasion, the Administration had been quietly supporting the Senate budget levels as its best hope. ''Sam Nunn became the G.O.P. standard-bearer,'' said John Isaacs, legislative director of the Council for a Livable World, a lobbying group on arms control and other military issues.
The military spending bill does not include the cost of the American military operation in the Persian Gulf. The operation is now estimated to cost about $15 billion by next September unless there is an outbreak of hostilities, which would send that figure soaring. About half the cost is expected to be met by foreign contributions.
A casualty, not only of the higher military spending levels, but also of costs attached to the Persian Gulf operation, has been any hope of channeling Pentagon savings into domestic programs.
The ''peace dividend,'' resulting from military spending cuts, ranged from the Bush Administration's estimate of about $85 billion over five years to $185 billion under the Senate plan to $240 billion under the House version.
''The message is, 'Honey, I shrunk the peace dividend,' '' said Gordon Adams, director of the Defense Budget Project, a research organization here.
''There is a peace dividend here, but for the next three to five years, it's going to be rolled entirely into deficit reduction.''
Aides to Mr. Aspin sought to play down any notion that the budget agreement was a serious setback to their position.
 
'Not Thrilled to Death'
''Obviously, we're not thrilled to death,'' said one House staff member, who said the committee's attitude all along had been to shape a military spending bill, given whatever level the budget negotiators adopted. ''Now the challenge is to spend the money correctly once the top line is established.''
For House conferees, that is likely to mean favoring less drastic personnel cuts over expensive strategic systems. The House, for instance, approved cutting the military by 129,500 troops next year, compared with 100,000 for the Senate.
Mr. Cheney, the Defense Secretary, has urged lawmakers to limit personnel cuts next year to 80,000.
The House also eliminated financing for any additional Stealth bombers after the 15 that are already paid for. The Senate has approved the Administration's request for $4.6 billion and two new B-2's in 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (91%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC DICK CHENEY (58%); 



368 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: The Empty Pulpit

 BODY:
The budget charade that has dominated Washington for weeks has diminished almost all of its participants. That includes the majority of both parties in the House who, without offering any serious alternative, rejected a budget compromise engineered by their leaders. But the roll of dishonor is headed by George Bush, who failed to present a convincing and consistent case for a deal he had worked hard to achieve.
One might have expected more from a man who has so successfully orchestrated a collective global response to Iraq's aggression in the Persian Gulf. But when faced with a crisis at home, he chose not to use those skills. His failure has nothing to do with the ''vision thing'' he finds so uncomfortable. It has everything to do with his reluctance to exercise power - and use the pulpit he was hired to fill. 
True, Mr. Bush made one good speech. Honoring his promise to the Congressional leadership to present a united front, he appeared on television last week and called the budget deficit ''a cancer gnawing away at our nation's health.'' Uncontrolled deficits ''mortgage the future of our children,'' he said - a plain and simple acknowledgment that recurrent deficits threaten future living standards by siphoning money from private investment. And he urged the public to ask their representatives to ''fight for the future of your kids by supporting this budget agreement.''
That was not an easy speech for George Bush. It required an implicit concession that the economic policies of Ronald Reagan, to whom he had given eight years of undivided loyalty, had brought the country to the brink. While the budget compromise was hardly draconian, it required him to admit, once again, that the theme of his Presidential campaign -no new taxes - had been nothing but blue skies. And it asked him to spend a small amount of his treasured popularity.
But when the House repudiated him, his well of conviction ran dry. Indeed, within days his own budget director, Richard Darman, made the astonishing statement that Mr. Bush hadn't really said what everyone had heard him say. ''He wasn't actually asking the public to support this,'' Mr. Darman said, suggesting that maybe the President didn't think so much of his own idea.
Mr. Bush's subsequent behavior has been equally confusing. Instead of returning to his central theme that huge deficits demand urgent attention, he has trapped himself in a bizarre and baffling dispute. The debate is whether to include in any new package something that was not even in the original - higher income taxes on the wealthy combined with lower capital gains taxes.
Mr. Bush embraced that proposal Tuesday morning and, after conservatives screamed, rejected it that afternoon. On Wednesday he said he had no public position on the matter and that it was up to Congress to decide. Then, yesterday, he (a) proposed a ''hypothetical'' package containing a capital gains cut and a modest increase in income taxes on the rich and (b) said he would prefer a budget agreement that had neither element in it.
That's how many, four contradictory statements in three days? Five? ''The meter is running,'' he said yesterday. ''But look, I can't dictate to Congress.'' But he can certainly give Congress a far clearer idea of what's on his mind.
What a depressing week. Official Washington has converted a fine opportunity to make a bold statement about fiscal sanity into a dismal statement about the quality of America's elected leadership. The deficit is a cancer. The public needs to be rallied to support an effective remedy. What does the President do about that? He dithers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX BUDGETS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



369 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Keep Our Powder Dry

BYLINE: By McGeorge Bundy; McGeorge Bundy was special assistant for national security affairs for Presidents Kennedy and Johnson.

 BODY:
As they move into the third month of their shared response to Saddam Hussein's aggression, the governments of the U.S., most Middle Eastern countries and most members of the U.N. Security Council deserve applause. Together they have established a winning position. Unless they become divided in ways that none can desire, the Iraqi aggression, sooner or later, will fail.
Oddly, the principal threat to this prospect is that one or more members of this extraordinary coalition may not appreciate the strength of their present position and so may lose patience. Because the Americans are the linchpin of the coalition, it is America's patience that matters most, and it is precisely among Americans that there are voices calling for moving from blockade to ''decisive'' combat. These voices are wrong in three ways. 
First, if the U.S. takes the lead in escalation, it will put heavy strains on the unity and steadiness of the coalition it has done so much to bring together and will gravely threaten the blockade constructed under our leadership.
Second, there is no need for escalation because the blockade itself, over time, is a winner. There can be no durable success for Saddam Hussein while the blockade remains in force, and his strength, military and political, is bound to decline month by month as it continues.
Already he is weaker than he was, and his behavior shows he knows it: his threats get thinner and his search for a political escape more frantic. Because it is necessarily slow, the blockade can easily be underestimated. Iraq is unusually vulnerable to blockade. Large-scale imports and exports are vital; they are readily blocked; the necessary participants in this process are few, and all are deeply interested in success.
We can't be sure a cornered Saddam Hussein will never strike out, but it is reasonable to expect that the allies will be able to turn any such act into a clear defeat for him.
A third error is the assumption that because it was wrong in Vietnam it is wrong now to use force in a limited and graduated way. This assumption is entirely understandable to me, because I know at first hand what we tried to do in Vietnam and how it ended in disaster. It was a disaster, not because we did too little, but because we tried to do too much. We tried to do with our own forces what in the end could be done only by the Vietnamese. Tragically, there was a persistent and eventually fatal imbalance of effectiveness between the Vietnamese Communists and their opponents.
It makes no sense to let an honorable but deeply mistaken view of the American tragedy in Vietnam be misapplied in the wholly different situation of Iraq and Kuwait.
This time, as a result of quick and excellent work by our own leaders, we and our friends are doing enough to prevail - a position we never reached in Vietnam - and we need not do more unless Saddam Hussein makes war. A blockade has daily costs, but even a year of blockade will be cheaper for both sides by every measure of cost than even a week of war.
It is true that blockade will not by itself do more than bring independence back to Kuwait. It cannot settle the political future of that country or insure a stable peace between Iraq and its neighbors.
As President Bush made clear at the U.N., there will be much to work out after the Iraqis leave Kuwait. In particular, there are other dangers in the Iraq of Saddam Hussein, notably a deep preoccupation with the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction. But these are not matters to be settled by warfare - at least not by warfare of American choice.
We shall do better on these larger problems if we keep to what President Bush has described: a course that does only what we must to restore the independence of Kuwait. Once that goal is attained, there will be a new political and military balance of power in the region that will help in larger matters - as an open war begun by the Americans will not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); VIET NAM (93%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); 

PERSON: BUNDY, MCGEORGE SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 



370 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Facing Yonkers Housing Foes, Banks Balk

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

DATELINE: YONKERS, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Five years after a Federal judge ordered Yonkers to desegregate by building low-income housing in white neighborhoods, public opposition remains so potent that banks, apparently fearing picketing or boycotts, are balking at financing the construction.
Chemical Bank of New York has withdrawn from talks with the developer chosen by the city, who now faces a deadline of Friday to arrange other financing. If the developer fails to do so, the city may have to seek new bids; even if the developer succeeds, the start of construction will be delayed until at least next spring.
It appeared tonight that the developer would work out its difficulties, and that the city's housing authority was prepared to forward the developer's financing plan to the Department of Housing and Urban Development, where the final decision will be made. 
Even though Chemical's decision appears to have stemmed not from threats, but from concern that protests might develop, news of its withdrawal quickly led housing opponents to promise that they would boycott any other bank that stepped in. Meanwhile, supporters of the plan began picketing Chemical over its decision to withdraw.
''Chemical gave the developer a handshake on a deal to build housing in Yonkers, and then backed off under the threat of boycotts,'' the Rev. Darryl George, the pastor of the Messiah Baptist Church, said on Wednesday at a demonstration of about 40 people outside the bank's branch in downtown Getty Square. ''We're going to shut this branch down.''
The developer, DeLuxe Development of New York, had been negotiating with Chemical for a loan of $16 million to build 142 apartments for low-income families on five sites scattered in predominantly white neighborhoods.
Just what prompted Chemical's decision to break off talks in mid-August remains in sharp dispute. A bank spokesman, Kenneth Herz, said that the decision was based on ''prudent banking practices.''
But a court-appointed monitor in the desegregation case, Oscar Newman, said in a letter to all parties in the dispute that the developer's president was told by Chemical that it ''had a branch in Yonkers and was afraid it would get out that Chemical had made the loan and the branch would be picketed.''
Mr. Herz denied that Chemical had said that to the developer.
Then late last month the financing problem became public when a lawyer representing the city wrote to Mr. Newman, saying there was ''a story circulating'' that ''an unnamed person, allegedly a city employee, had interfered with the financing'' by threatening ''to remove $300 million in funds from Chemical Bank.''
 
City Conducts Investigation
An investigation by the City Manager, Neil J. DeLuca, found no employee who had spoken to Chemical Bank, or even anyone, he said, who ''knew that Chemical was dealing with DeLuxe.'' He also said the city had no more than ''$3 million to $4 million in a payroll account'' with Chemical.
Ultimately 200 apartments are to be built under the order of the judge in the case, Leonard B. Sand of Federal District Court in Manhattan. The original schedule called for construction to begin last spring.
Mr. Newman said that DeLuxe's negotiations with other banks to replace Chemical have become ''increasingly protracted and complex.'' DeLuxe's president, Donald Meske, is negotiating with First Eastern Bank in Pennsylvania, which has financed other projects for his company, but there, too, the possibility of protests in the city is causing trouble.
DeLuxe and First Eastern sought a guarantee from H.U.D., which will eventually pay for the housing, that it would compensate them for any losses due to lawsuits or other factors beyond their control.
But an assistant secretary at H.U.D., Joseph G. Schiff, rejected the request and set Friday's deadline, replying that ''DeLuxe well knew, or should have known, of the dimensions of the 'local controversy' when it submitted its proposal to develop the housing.''
Mr. Meske has declined several requests to discuss the negotiations.
 
Series of Maneuvers
Mr. Newman estimated that ''even if H.U.D., DeLuxe and First Eastern reach agreement, we've lost a building season and will probably not start construction until next spring.''
The threat of pickets and boycotts is the latest in a series of controversies that have dominated Yonkers since 1985, when Judge Sand found the city guilty of intentionally segregating schools and housing.
The next year Judge Sand issued remedy orders calling for a school desegregation plan that introduced busing and magnet schools to the city of 190,000, and the construction of 200 units of subsidized housing on several sites in middle-income neighborhoods. He proposed that an additional 800 units of affordable housing be built by private developers who would receive incentives to participate.
The school plan was accepted with little opposition, but the housing remedy has been bitterly resisted by neighborhood groups that formed the Save Yonkers Federation and by a majority on the City Council. Though there have been many legal challenges, with one reaching the United States Supreme Court, Judge Sand's remedies remain intact.
The desegregation case has become a preoccupation for Yonkers, said Mr. DeLuca, the City Manager, clouding its economic future and delaying or overshadowing other advances.
A Yonkers 2000 commission acknowledged in a report issued today that the city's image is a ''tragedy'' and that it is the most serious problem Yonkers is facing.
Ignoring the long and bitter struggle over the desegregated housing, the authors of the three-year study blamed ''the sensationalism of out-of-area media'' for the negative public perception of Yonkers. To change the image, it recommended ''development of a positive business image, centralization of development agencies, subsidization of new and rehabilitated affordable housing as well as an improved public relations effort, video presentations, an ''historical trail'' for visitors and ''welcome wagons'' to greet new residents.
As for the campaign against the court-ordered housing, Jack O'Toole, head of the Save Yonkers Federation, said, ''We're going to keep up the pressure, telling our people to withdraw funds from any financial institution that provides funding to the builders of the low-income housing or the developers of the long-term housing.''
That vow added fuel to the counter- demonstration on Wednesday outside Chemical Bank's branch in downtown Getty Square.
Chemical Bank said that it had no plans to change its decision and that it has an excellent record of financing subsidized housing in the New York region. The bank also said that Federal regulators gave it their highest rating earlier this year for investments in communities where they operate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (58%); H U D (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL BANK (NYC); DELUXE DEVELOPMENT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YONKERS (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INCOME; PUBLIC HOUSING; BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS; CREDIT PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STRIKES (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); JUDGES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); FAMILY (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: FERON, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



371 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Quiet for 4 Years, Board Is Child of Crisis

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
The State Financial Control Board, which has been all but dormant and forgotten in the budgetary quietude of recent years, was created in 1975 to impose fiscal austerity on New York City - then at the brink of bankruptcy - and see it through its worst financial crisis in history.
Awash in $3.3 billion of debt, the city had been shut out of credit markets, and default appeared certain on Sept. 9, 1975, when Gov. Hugh L. Carey signed into law a plan establishing the board to restructure the city's fiscal management, slash its expenses and infuse it with $2.3 billion in cash.
The seven-member panel, originally called the Emergency Financial Control Board, was empowered to monitor the city's finances and approve its budgets and financial plans, in effect taking over the authority of the mayor and other elected officials for the duration of the crisis. 
The board made many painful, controversial decisions that Mayor Abraham D. Beame and other officials were unwilling or unable to make. It ordered hundreds of millions of dollars in budget cuts and layoffs for thousands of city workers, imposed a wage freeze on all municipal workers and rejected labor contracts already negotiated with teachers and transit workers.
 
Change in Name
The panel was so aggressive in its belt-tightening that many public officials feared the state had virtually taken over the city, and many labor leaders expressed concern that collective bargaining with the city was dead.
But three years later, as the crisis eased, the word ''emergency'' was dropped from the board's title. And on June 30, 1986, under terms of the law that created it, the board invoked a ''sunset'' provision that altered its duties from direct oversight to exclusively advisory.
To do so, the board had to affirm that the city had balanced its budget for three consecutive years, had regained access to the credit markets and had retired its federally guaranteed loans. The board by law will exist until the year 2008 but must vote annually to remain in its ''sunset'' mode.
The control board may resume its stronger powers only if one of the following conditions are met: if the city runs a $100 million deficit at the end of a fiscal year, if it is unlikely to be able to pay the principal or interest on its debts, if the city and state comptrollers say the city can no longer borrow money or if the city impairs its credit by violating state-required budget and accounting practices.
 
Members of the Board
The seven members of the board are Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, Mayor David N. Dinkins, State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman and three private members appointed by the Governor. The private members are:
* Stanley S. Shuman, executive vice president of Allen & Company, the investment banking concern, who has been on the board since 1977.
* Donald D. Kummerfeld, president of the Magazine Publishers Association, former City Budget Director, former First Deputy Mayor and former executive director of the Financial Control Board.
* Heather L. Ruth, president of the Public Securities Association, representing the municipal bond underwriting community, who is the former executive director of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was created during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's to issue bonds to raise money for the city.
Since January, the executive director of the board has been Allen Proctor, a 38-year-old former deputy director of the city's Office of Management and Budget. He and a staff of 25 are responsible for tracking city finances and advising the board on its duties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ALLEN & CO INC (84%); STATE FINANCIAL CONTROL BOARD (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL CONTROL BOARD (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); APPOINTMENTS (61%); ACCOUNTING (60%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; SHUMAN, STANLEY S; KUMMERFELD, DONALD D; RUTH, HEATHER L



372 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Warns the State Is 'In for a Period of Pain'

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
As New York City's financial outlook grows bleaker, officials in Albany, including Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, are warning that the state is also facing a dark financial future and that layoffs and tuition increases are likely.
Governor Cuomo is expected to revise the economic forecast for the state to reflect a recession in the second half of the fiscal year, which started April 1. The original forecast had called for an upturn in the state's economy in the second half.
The warnings from Albany appear to be aimed in part at New York City officials, telling them, in effect, to expect little help from the state as they search for solutions to the city's increasingly desperate fiscal problems. In the city's fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, it was the state that created the borrowing mechanisms to bail out the city. 
 
Prepare for 'Pain'
At a meeting earlier this week, Governor Cuomo told his top staff members that the state's capacity to raise new tax revenues was limited and that they should expect an austere budget next year.
He made similar comments yesterday in an interview at The New York Times, saying: ''I believe we're in for a period of pain, and I think we have to be prepared for that.''
The Governor said that cuts in aid to local governments would have to be made and that state employees, whose contracts expire in March, should expect only meager salary increases.
The comments amounted to an unusual pre-election confession, defying the conventional wisdom that holds that bad news should wait until after November. Mr. Cuomo, who is running for a third term, holds an overwhelming lead over his opponents, according to most polls.
 
Drop in Revenues Expected
The Governor's remarks also seemed aimed at quieting critics who have accused him of failing to address some of the state's most obvious problems during the current campaign.
''The truth is we're going to have a difficult time with finances at the state level,'' Mr. Cuomo said yesterday. ''Everybody knows that.'' At the end of this month the Governor is due to release an update of the state's finances that is expected to show tax collections falling hundreds of millions of dollars short of expectations. The expected change in the economic forecast, to reflect a recession at the end of the year, is likely to force the Governor to reduce his tax revenue estimates significantly.
''The numbers are going to be way down,'' one Cuomo administration official said.
Already the figures for the first five months of the fiscal year show that state income-tax collections are $200 million lower than expected. They are down $600 million, compared with collections in the same period last year, a time when the state was already experiencing severe fiscal problems.
 
Layoffs a Possibility
It was unclear yesterday what steps Mr. Cuomo would propose to close the budget gap in the current fiscal year. But looking toward next year's budget, the Governor said that the state's workforce of more than 200,000 employees would have to be reduced.
''I'm not going to rule out layoffs,'' he said. But he refused to be more specific, saying, ''I'm not going to start floating layoff numbers and getting into trouble that way.''
Last week, when Mayor David N. Dinkins suggested that up to 15,000 New York City employees might have to be laid off to close the city's budget gap, Mr. Dinkins found himself at the center of a storm of criticism.
Historically Mr. Cuomo has been a staunch foe of raising tuition at the state's public universities, going so far last year as to veto an increase. But yesterday he said the state, which has had record tax increases in each of the last two years, had exhausted other sources of revenue and might have to impose a tuition increase next year.
In suggesting that aid to local governments would have to be cut next year, Mr. Cuomo sent a strong signal to New York City not to look to Albany for help. Noting that the largest segment of the state budget was made up of aid to localities, Mr. Cuomo said, ''We have to find a way to reduce that.'' New York City, he said, ''is included.''
Complicating both the city and the state's financial outlook are the labor contracts that both governments must negotiate against tight budgets. The city is currently engaged in negotiations with scores of municipal unions whose contracts have expired; the state faces comparable negotiations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (SUNY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; ELECTION ISSUES; LOCAL GOVERNMENT; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); LAYOFFS (LABOR); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES ; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION LAYOFFS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); BAILOUTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); KOLBERT, ELIZABETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



373 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 24, Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants

BYLINE: By Bryan Miller

 BODY:

Mondrian
If you believe the gossip, Mondrian, the corporate-lookingFrench restaurant in midtown, is more poised for calamity than a tightrope walker. Even when Mondrian opened in 1988 (the summer following the stock-market crash), the betting was it would be short-lived. Industry observers reasoned that New York City needed another luxury dining spot about as much as it needed more potholes.
Mondrian received another blow when its founder and chef, Dennis Foy, threw in the towel in late 1989, selling the struggling restaurant to his partners. The current chef, Thomas Colicchio, has an impressive pedigree: Rakel, where he was sous chef, and before that, Gotham Bar and Grill and the Quilted Giraffe. The economy has not improved, but Mondrian certainly has, and I wouldn't be too fast to make any bets about its demise.
Mondrian is named for the Dutch artist Piet Mondrian, who worked in this neighborhood in the 1940's. The 100-seat main dining room (a 40-seat private room is downstairs) was designed by Philip George, who also created Le Bernardin on West 51st Street, among others. Mondrian is a roomy yet intimate spot with its recessed ceiling, warm wood paneling holding Miro's drawings, soothing lighting and sound-absorbing rugs. 
Winning appetizers on the versatile fall menu include a ragout of sweet little clams, squid-ink pasta, kale, leeks and tomato in a wonderful shellfish broth. Sauteed sweetbreads were enhanced with mildly bitter sauteed salsify and a contrasting sweet puree of onions and deep-fried leeks. Less elaborate but equally alluring were the pristine terrine of leeks with a truffle vinaigrette (very little truffle flavor could be detected, however), flanked by briny oysters out of the shell, and an artichoke, green bean and lobster salad drizzled with basil oil.
Lovely cured salmon came with a corn-and-red-pepper relish, glistening with red-pepper oil, and corn pancakes that were undercooked and still runny in the center. Corn chowder was superb, full of sweet corn flavor, bolstered with bacon and holding oysters encased in webs of deep-fried potatoes.
Mondrian has a well-rounded French and American wine list at moderate prices. Servers at Mondrian are first class in every respect, able to explain anything on the long and intricate menu.
Mr. Colicchio's list of entrees carries some stellar seafood compositions. Braised red snapper came in a pellucid lemony vinaigrette along with deep-fried spinach. At lunch one day I had a terrific tartlet of blackened tuna, black olives, ripe tomatoes, garlic chips and sweet onions. Roasted salmon was simple and appealing, with sliced beets, a sweet rhubarb puree and rivulets of red-wine sauce. The menu described it as having horseradish, but none was in evidence. A friend who had never tried skate marveled at its delicate texture and flavor, served over white beans and garnished with laces of deep-fried leeks. And in a colorful takeoff on Le Cirque's roasted sea bass in a potato crust, Mr. Colicchio camouflages the well-seasoned fillet in slices of zucchini, eggplant, squash and tomato, then sets it over a red-wine fume along with white beans.
Several at my table found the confit of duck a touch too salty, although the texture was right on the mark and the porridgelike polenta with it was a fine foil. Venison chop had a stout gamy flavor and tender texture, served with black mushrooms, lingonberries, delicious pumpkin ravioli and barley. Grilled rib of beef looked great on the plate but had little flavor. A better choice was roasted baby chicken served off the bone with mustard greens and crusty risotto cakes.
The pastry chef, Susie Dayton, turns out a versatile roster of sweets. Warm blueberry tart with vanilla ice cream is a treat, as is the napoleon of figs with a tower of hazelnut parfait on the side. Her tongue-in-cheek chocolate ice cream sandwich - chocolate ice cream, chocolate cake and chocolate sauce - is fun, even though it's 97.5 on the chocoholic meter. One dessert that is promoted heavily and must be ordered in advance is a ganache cake whose warm core of chocolate gushes out like lava when you dig in.
If Mondrian indeed is expiring as scuttlebutt periodically has it, the city's fine dining scene will be poorer for it. Should such a sad day arrive, I certainly wouldn't want to miss the food at the wake.
 
Tatany
Tatany is a feverish Japanese restaurant and sushi bar that runs on overdrive from noon until 10 P.M., with just a short lull between services: a good sign for demanding fish eaters. One gets the impression that nothing sits around in this dining room for more than 30 minutes, including some of the customers. Three recent visits confirmed that for pristine seafood in a simple and pleasant environment, Tatany is still hard to beat.
At lunch and dinner, a legion of seafood aficionados invades these animated, moderate-size dining rooms done in characteristic light wood walls adorned with Japanese artwork. Tatany recently moved three doors down from its previous location into larger quarters.
Some of the better starters on the regular menu include succulent little pork-filled dumplings called shumai and fried eggplant disks called nasu shigiyaki served with rice and sweet miso paste. The negimaki (slices of beef wrapped around broiled scallions) was disappointing because the meat was a bit dry. An outstanding appetizer, though, is called hamachi-kama, or broiled collar of Japanese yellowtail with teriyaki sauce. The collar of the fish is the section between the head and the body, and the meat there is particularly sweet and moist. This one was broiled to perfection and glazed with a little teriyaki sauce. One aspect of Tatany that I noticed after an absence of more than a year is that the service staff seems more rushed and impersonal. On two of three visits, our waiter seemed to have many things weighing on his mind, none of which included serving us. The pace of the kitchen is brisk, though.
Sushi or sashimi can be ordered as an appetizer or main course. Everything I tried was superior: tuna, toro (fatty tuna belly), giant clam, shrimp, flounder, uni (sea urchin) and mackerel, to name a few. The maki, or rolls wrapped in dried seaweed, were freshly made and colorful.
A host of cooked dishes is available. Tempura is cleanly executed, whether it is made with assorted vegetables or seafood. Broiled squiggles of pork in a bright ginger sauce was delicious, as was the swordfish teriyaki. Swordfish also shines in chirashi, which is an assortment of fish and shellfish over warm rice with shredded Japanese yam. Nearly a dozen soba (buckwheat noodles) and udon (wheat noodles) are offered, each in a broth with different ingredients. The sliced beef version, with ungainly thick scallions, mushrooms, onions and hard carrots, was nearly flavorless. The curry broth with noodles was slightly better but one-dimensional. Fruit and various ice creams (some too icy) round out the meal.
Tatany is not about creature comforts and polished waiters. It is about fresh fish. And for that, it rarely disappoints.
 
Mondrian
***
 
7 East 59th Street, 935-3434.
Atmosphere: Handsome, corporate-looking 100-seat dining room. Good noise muffling.
Service: Highly competent and helpful.
Recommended dishes: Ragout of clams and pasta, sweetbreads with salsify, corn chowder, braised red snapper in lemon vinaigrette, skate with white beans, roasted sea bass with vegetable crust, venison with black mushrooms, roasted chicken with mustard greens, blueberry tart, napoleon of figs with hazelnut parfait, ganache cake.
Wine: Good French and American selection at moderate prices.
Price range: Lunch: appetizers $7 to $14, main courses $16 to $24; dinner: appetizers $8 to $18, main courses $19 to $30. Prixfixe dinner $65.
Credit cards: All major cards.
Hours: Lunch: noon to 2 P.M. Monday to Friday; dinner: pre-theater seatings ($36 prix fixe menu) 5:30 to 6:30 P.M. Tuesday to Saturday; a la carte dinner 5:30 to 10 P.M. Monday to Saturday.
Reservations: Suggested.
Wheelchair accessibility: Dining on one level; elevator to restrooms.
 
Tatany
**
 
380 Third Avenue, near 27th Street, 686-1871.
Atmosphere: Trim and informal restaurant with a pleasant sushi bar and two dining rooms.
Service: Relatively fast-paced but occasionally brusque.
Recommended dishes: Assorted tempura, broiled yellowtail collar, fried eggplant, assorted sushi, sashimi, ginger pork, seafood chirashi.
Price range: Lunch: appetizers $3.50 to $5.25, main courses $5.75 to $12.50; dinner: appetizers $3.50 to $5.25, main courses $8.25 to $13.75.
Credit cards: All major cards.
Hours: Lunch: noon to 2:30 P.M. Monday to Friday; dinner, 5:30 to 10:30 P.M. Sunday to Thursday, 5:30 to 11:30 P.M. Friday and Saturday.
Reservations: Accepted only for large groups.
Wheelchair access: Ramp for wheelchair; restrooms same floor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONDRIAN (NYC RESTAURANT); TATANY (NYC RESTAURANT)

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN PIET MONDRIAN (94%); THOMAS COLICCHIO (59%); 



374 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Apple Risks Profits on New Line

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Apple Computer Inc. will introduce three of the most important new computers in its history Monday. Industry analysts expect these lower-priced Macintosh computers to revive the company's flagging revenue growth and increase its market share in the personal computer business.
So why is Wall Street so worried? Apple's stock is selling for little more than half its high of the last 12 months, which was just above $50. Yesterday, the stock, traded over the counter, closed at $27.75 a share, up $1.25. Much of the fall has come in the last three months, but the market's overall decline and the negative outlook for the economy are only partly to blame. 
The answer is that the machines represent a major shift in strategy for Apple and therefore a risk. After emphasizing high-priced computers that produce high profit margins, Apple is shifting toward lower profit margins and, it is hoped, higher volumes.
The risk is that Apple's increase in volume will not quite make up for the lower margins, causing profits to drop. A day after Apple's chief executive, John Sculley, enunciated the low-margin strategy last week, Apple's stock fell 9 percent.
 
Pressure on Unit Sales
''You really need to sell a lot of units just to keep flat,'' said Daniel C. Benton, a personal-computer industry analyst for Goldman, Sachs & Company. He is not recommending the stock despite its seemingly low price, and while he expects Apple to begin doing very well starting in June, he sees more upheaval until then. ''We are not yet through all the pain in terms of earnings,'' he said.
Almost everyone agrees Apple had little choice but to lower prices. The Macintosh's advantage over I.B.M.-compatible personal computers in ease of use has been eroding. Apple has been losing the dominant position it once had in selling computers to schools because competitors like the International Business Machines Corporation and the Tandy Corporation offer lower-priced machines. And with its shrinking market share, Apple was beginning to lose the support of software companies, which want to develop new programs for computers with large sales.
The new machines are given generally good reviews by the industry and analysts. They are the black-and-white Macintosh Classic, expected to be offered at a list price of $1,000; the color Macintosh LC, which will sell for $2,500 to $,3000, and the Macintosh IIsi, which will start at about $3,800.
Still, there is concern that Apple will not be able to transform its somewhat loose and lavish California corporate life style into a cost-conscious, disciplined culture. The company has never been known for tough cost controls, except during an occasional crisis.
Apple's gross margin, the amount by which sales exceed manufacturing costs, is about 53 percent. By contrast, the Compaq Computer Corporation, the Houston-based vendor of I.B.M.-compatibles, has gross margins of 40 to 42 percent. Smaller clones, like AST Research and Dell Computer that tend to compete more on price, have gross margins of 35 percent.
By contrast, however, Apple has spent 20 to 25 percent of its revenues on marketing and distribution, about twice as much as Compaq, Mr. Benton said.
Michele Preston, an analyst with Cowen & Company, said she was optimistic that Apple would succeed with its strategy and recommended the stock. She expects Apple's domestic personal-computer market share to grow from 9 percent now to about 12 or 13 percent in the next 18 months.
Ms. Preston said she expected Apple's gross margins over all to drop only to about 50 percent, in part because the low-priced Macintoshes will in large measure replace the Apple II, which was also a low-margin product. Moreover, she said, the new management team under the chief operating officer, Michael H. Spindler, appears capable of instilling the needed spending discipline into the company.
The difference in earnings estimates is wide, reflecting the great uncertainty. Ms. Preston estimated that Apple's earnings in the 1991 fiscal year, which began this month, would rise to $4.65 a share from an expected level of $3.65 for the year that just ended. Revenues should climb 15 percent, to $6.3 billion from $5.5 billion, she said.
Mr. Benton of Goldman, Sachs sees revenues growing in the 1991 fiscal year to $6.2 billion, nearly the same as Ms. Preston's estimate. But his estimate for profits, which he reduced again this week, is for only $4 a share.
Apple also has other clouds hanging over it. The Macintosh, first introduced in 1984, is aging. High-powered work stations, like those made by Sun Microsystems, are beginning to compete with personal computers. And the Macintosh is not compatible with other systems at a time when customers are increasingly demanding machines that adhere to industry-wide software standards.
''My opinion is that Apple is going to have to take some fairly drastic action here to restore confidence in the Macintosh standard and rebuild momentum in Macintosh sales,'' said Mark D. Stahlman, an analyst with Alex. Brown & Sons. ''These products are not going to do it.''
Apple seems to be moving to take on these longer-term challenges. It is considering, however reluctantly, licensing its Macintosh software to other companies to make Macintosh-compatible products. That will probably start with laptop and notebook Macintoshes made by Sony or Toshiba, or both.
It also plans to add more powerful computers next year and is working on a family of non-Macintosh computers that should start appearing in about two years.

GRAPHIC: Table indicating value of Apple Computer Inc. stock over last year (Source: Datastream) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); GS (NYSE) (90%); IBMC (BRU) (82%); IBM (NYSE) (82%); IBM (LSE) (82%); RSH (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (82%); RADIOSHACK CORP (63%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; FORECASTS; PERSONAL COMPUTERS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS (CORPORATE); PRICES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW STEVEN JOBS (59%); 



375 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Dow Slides 42.82 Points, To 2,365.10

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks fell again yesterday, partly in reaction to a 63 percent dividend reduction by Chemical Banking, the nation's sixth-largest banking company. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day down 42.82, at 2,365.10, a 17-month low.
Allowing for a small gain on Monday, the Dow has fallen 145 points, or close to 6 percent, this week. And since mid-July, when it came within a hairbreadth of reaching 3,000, it has sunk 21.2 percent, leaving no doubt on Wall Street that the bears are in control. 
As traders have waited in vain for hard news from somewhere - particularly from the Middle East or Washington - the Dow has tumbled nearly 159 points, or 6.5 percent, in just three days. Prices of Treasury issues also weakened yesterday in the credit markets.
 
Trading Volume Increases
On the New York Stock Exchange, trading volume picked up markedly, to a robust 180.1 million shares, from 167.9 million on Wednesday.
But 1,290 stocks fell in price and 375 reached new lows, including NCR, a widely watched high-tech stock. It slid to 48 3/4 before ending at 50 3/4, down 2 3/8, after Salomon Brothers and Smith Barney lowered their earnings estimates.
The slide in NCR touched off another decline in I.B.M., which was down 2 1/2, to 101, after a 6-point drop in the previous two days.
With two-thirds of the Big Board's stocks losing ground, only 301 moved higher and just 3 reached new highs.
The 1.8 percent drop in the Dow spread through the broad Standard & Poor's average of 500 stocks and to a great extent into the small stocks covered in the Nasdaq composite index, where stock prices slid 2.3 percent.
On an uncharacteristically depressing note, Robert J. Farrell, chief market analyst for Merrill Lynch & Company, wrote in his current market report, dated Oct. 8, ''We do not think, however, that the bear market has run its course and would treat any recovery in the next couple of months as a temporary respite in a major downtrend.''
Richard T. McCabe, Merrill Lynch's senior market analyst, added yesterday that this outlook '' would still hold true unless the market has an immediate, further substantial decline, a move that would produce a major oversold condition.'' Typically in an oversold market, investors rush in to buy, lifting stock prices.
On a hopeful note, Joan Lappin, president of Gramercy Capital Management, a small Manhattan advisory firm with $70 million under management, remarked: ''This is not fun, but I haven't given up all hope yet. Everybody now thinks we're going off the cliff. But if there's a resolution of the budget - including a solid effort to close the deficit gap - we could be in for a solid bounce.''
The move by Chemical yesterday, coming only three weeks after Chase Manhattan Bank cut its dividend amid worsening real estate problems filtering throughout the economy, came as no great shock. Shortly after noon, with the Dow already down close to 30 points, the ticker carried the news that the New York Stock Exchange had halted trading in Chemical's stock ''pending news.''
Without knowing what the news might be, traders surmised that it was probably a dividend reduction. Within the next few minutes, the Dow slid another 10 points as investors, traders and speculators fled the market.
By 12:30, Chemical said it would lose $43.7 million in the third quarter, add $250 million to its loan-loss reserves and cut dividends next year to 25 cents a share from 68 cents.
By nearly 2 P.M. the Dow had plunged 50 points, prompting the Big Board to move in and bar program selling on a downtick so that selling would not feed on itself. At 3:30, the Dow was still off 50 points.
 
Program Selling Lowers Dow
From 12:02, before the Chemical Bank halt in trading, to 12:28, long after the halt, program selling lowered the Dow by 24 points, said Birinyi Associates, which tracks the effects of program trading. Ten waves of computerized selling had lowered the Dow by 82 points by the close.
Asked why even supposedly invulnerable I.B.M. succumbed to the big selloff, Morgan Stanley's computer expert, Carol E. Muratore, said, ''It's a liquid stock and the market's going down.''
Early in the day, however, Peter G. Grennan, head of stock index futures, for Shearson Lehman Brothers, remarked: ''This is going to be a nasty one. The selling's beginning to feed on itself.''
Daniel C. Benton, computer expert at Goldman, Sachs, remarked, ''A number of analysts have downgraded it'' and ''it's a very nervous market.'' He noted that I.B.M. would report earnings on Monday.
''We've heard it all before,'' said Mr. Grennan of Shearson. ''Oil's up, bonds are down and the dollar's weak. The market wants to see some results, and until it does it'll chip away at the confidence level.''
The Chemical move ''doesn't come as a tremendous surprise, but it certainly doesn't add to confidence of investors to buy stock,'' he said, adding, ''They don't see any results from anywhere, either good or bad.''
Chemical's stock closed at $13.75, down $1.75.

GRAPHIC: Table of The Favorite Stocks (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (85%); MER (NYSE) (85%); 8675 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); BONDS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGETS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



376 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A Terrible Time For a Deadlock

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH's flip-flop on whether or how to raise taxes to reduce the widening budget deficit - leaving the problem for Congress to work out as he hits the campaign trail - is a stunning blow to public confidence in the nation's leadership. It could scarcely have come at a worse time, with the economy sliding toward recession, the markets in turmoil, the dollar falling to new lows, speculators driving oil prices up, down and up, and the United States carrying the heaviest military burdens in the Persian Gulf.
Congress has only a few days to solve the problem before its extension of spending and temporary lifting of the debt ceiling runs out. But pessimism has risen that a genuine reconciliation of conflicts between Democrats and Republicans, and among the Republicans themselves, can be reached in the next week. 
President Bush, who had at first dropped his campaign pledge of ''read my lips, no new taxes'' in accepting the first compromise agreement between the White House and Congressional leaders, is now campaigning for the re-election of opponents like Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who declared his continuing and undying opposition ''to any - read my lips - any tax increase.'' And Mr. Bush, jogging in St. Petersburg, Fla., told reporters, ''Read my hips.''
If the contending politicians in Congress (and the White House, assuming it is still involved) cannot reach a budget agreement by Oct. 19, either the deadline will have to be extended again, perhaps until after the Nov. 6 Congressional elections, or a deal will have to be made that falls far short of cutting $40 billion in 1991 and $500 billion over the next five years. Those are the goals to which the President, on last report, said he remained committed and would not achieve by ''smoke and mirrors.''
But Mr. Bush has lost control over the Republicans in Congress, many of whom, as the saying goes, are now in business for themselves, with ample income from lobbyists and political action committees. The Democratic leadership has the same problem. And the budget stalemate reflects deep differences between the constituencies and ideologies of the parties; it also reflects clashes between economists and their witting or unwitting political disciples.
The supply-siders, still influential with the Republican right, hold that growth would be sapped by any increase in taxes. They are abetted, in strange-bedfellow fashion, by some liberal Keynesian economists, focusing on the short run, who maintain that in existing circumstances growth would be hurt and unemployment increased by trying to get rid of the deficit, either by tax increases or spending cuts. Belief has not died on the Republican right and the Democratic left that the nation can ''grow its way out of the deficit'' - even after eight years and a tripling of the national debt.
Nevertheless, public anxiety about the deficit persists. But for most people it remains an abstraction, while the means of getting rid of it are anything but abstract. Focusing on their own direct interests, many resist the tax increases that would chop into their take-home pay and oppose the cuts in spending or benefits that would cost them income or jobs. So, in the absence of strong political leadership, the budget impasse persists.
In the securities, capital and foreign exchange markets, anxiety is worsening about America's fiscal deficits. What might end the impasse? A financial crisis might bring Congress and the White House to their collective senses. But with the nation's financial structure severely strained, nobody wants to risk a ''crisis solution.''
Thus the odds have worsened against Congress's reducing the deficit by $40 billion in 1991 and $500 billion over five years. The shortfall might have to be concealed after all by ''smoke and mirrors,'' by underestimating spending and pushing some expenditures ''off budget,'' and by overestimating revenue projections.
What will the economic consequences be? Over time, the likely outcome would be continuing sluggishness and possible decline in the American economy, with insufficient savings to support real investment in plants, equipment and research and development of new technology, and with heavy reliance on the inflow of foreign capital. But, with ebbing confidence in American leadership and economic stability, foreign investment would ebb or even go into reverse.
Hope remains that a majority in Congress, worried about the danger to the securities markets, may still be able to salvage a credible budget agreement, which would brace confidence at home and abroad, pave the way for lower interest rates and help curb recessionary forces. But a continued stalemate will aggravate fears of financial trouble and a deeper recession. Hold on to your hats.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); RECESSION (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



377 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

 BODY:
* Aetna Life Insurance Co., Hartford, said it had completed its purchase of 20 percent of the Bay Pacific Health Corp., San Bruno, Calif., a health-care organization. Terms were not disclosed. 
* Andover Bancorp, Andover, Mass., said its previously announced merger agreement with First Essex Bancorp had been terminated. Andover said changes in the the regional economy and regulatory climate were the reasons the two companies decided not to merge.
* Philips N.V., the Dutch electronics giant, has begun a program to fight bureaucracy and raise profitability. Philips is spending $1.57 billion to cut back and reorganize its money-losing computer and microelectronics businesses. It plans to cut 10,000 of its 290,000 staff.
* Polly Peck International P.L.C.'s chairman and chief executive, Asil Nadir, has asked Britain's High Court to order the country's Serious Fraud Office to disclose some details of its reported investigation into his personal stock dealings.
* Saab-Scania A.B., Linkoping, Sweden, a maker of automobiles, trucks and aircraft, said Skywest Airlines, George, Utah, a regional airline, would buy 20 Saab 2000 aircraft, worth up to $250 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (95%); SXR (ASX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (72%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (95%); SANTANDER HOLDINGS USA INC (72%); POLLY PECK INTERNATIONAL PLC (70%); SAAB-SCANIA AB (69%); ANDOVER BANCORP INC (58%); SKYWEST AIRLINES LTD (55%); 

SUBJECT: No Index Terms ELECTRONICS (90%); HEALTH CARE (77%); MERGERS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); EXECUTIVES (53%); 



378 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Changes at the Top Of Aubrey G. Lanston

BYLINE: By Daniel F. Cuff

 BODY:
Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a Government securities brokerage house, announced yesterday that its chairman and chief executive, John B. Ford, plans to retire at the end of the year and that he will be succeeded by Richard M. Kelly.
Mr. Ford, 58 years old, who has spent 34 years in the bond business, will continue as a director and counselor, the Wall Street firm said. Mr. Kelly, 47, is currently president. He will be succeeded as president by James A. Rice, 42, senior vice president. 
''It's a wonderfully exciting place, but a tough job, too,'' Mr. Ford said. ''I will be happy to be retired from the trenches, so to speak, and let Mr. Kelly assume the responsibility.''
Lanston is a primary dealer in Federal securities, so designated by the Federal Reserve Bank. It underwrites the Treasury debt at auction, assists the Federal Reserve in carrying out its monetary policy and maintains liquid secondary markets, Mr. Kelly said. Transactions are reported daily to the Fed.
''The business has been more difficult in the last several years,'' Mr. Kelly said, citing narrowed trading profit margins as the problem. As a result, the number of primary dealers has been reduced to 42 from 46 in the last few years, he said.
''That's a trend that may continue,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''The industry could operate just as efficiently with fewer dealers.''
Lanston, founded in 1949, has been owned since 1986 by the Industrial Bank of Japan. ''We have a very high regard for our owners,'' Mr. Ford said. ''They have allowed Lanston to retain its independence and autonomy. In this management change, you'll notice there aren't any Japanese. There hasn't been any cultural problem either.''
Mr. Ford got into the bond business after graduating from Princeton, spent six years with the Bankers Trust Company and joined Lanston in 1962.
Mr. Kelly, a graduate of the University of Florida, joined the Bank of America upon graduation and stayed there for five years before moving to Lanston in 1972. For two years, starting in 1978, he was Deputy Assistant Secretary for debt management at the Treasury Department.
Mr. Rice, the new president, joined Lanston in 1981 as vice president from the Trust Company of Georgia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); STI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (95%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (54%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (52%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (51%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: LANSTON, AUBREY G, & CO

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TRENDS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; FORD, JOHN B; KELLY, RICHARD M; RICE, JAMES A RICHARD M KELLY (93%); JAMES A RICE (62%); 



379 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Rhone-Poulenc to Cut 3,500 Jobs in Brazil

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 11

 BODY:
The giant French chemical and pharmaceutical company Rhone-Poulenc S.A. said today that it would slash 3,500 jobs from its Brazilian work force because Government austerity measures there were crimping business activity.
Voluntary layoffs are being conducted at Sao Paulo-based Rhodia S.A., which makes chemicals, fibers and medical products, a company spokeswoman said. ''People that leave simply won't be replaced,'' she said.
About 2,000 workers have already left since the Brazilian President, Fernando Collor de Mello, instituted his anti-inflation austerity program last year. Another 1,500 are expected to leave in the next two years, the spokeswoman said.
Rhone-Poulenc's first-half profits were off 13 percent from a year earlier, partly because of a $58.7 million loss at Rhodia. It was the first loss recorded by the Brazilian division, which was a jewel in Rhone-Poulenc's crown in the 1980's. Rhodia once accounted for 10 percent of revenue and an impressive 25 percent of profits.
Other French companies have also suffered in Brazil because of the Government's austerity measures. They include the eyeglass specialist Essilor International S.A. and the auto parts producer Valeo S.A.
The Rhone-Poulenc spokeswoman said that the situation in Brazil had improved since midsummer but added that it would be three years before the company regained lost ground.
The job cuts at Rhodia will free money that cash-pressed Rhone-Poulenc can use to help pay for its $2 billion acquisition of the Rorer Group Inc., a pharmaceutical company based in the United States.
An economic slowdown in the United States has cast doubt on the profit-making potential of the new unit, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer S.A.
As part of its cash-raising strategy, the company recently sold its Paris headquarters to a group of French banks and its Spanish polyvinyl chloride business to a unit of Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EI (PAR) (68%); FR (PAR) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS423460 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (68%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC5048 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (68%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (68%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (65%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: RHONE-POULENC SA (96%); RHODIA SA (85%); ESSILOR INTERNATIONAL SA (68%); VALEO SA (67%); RHONE-POULENC RORER SA (65%); ELF AQUITAINE SA (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: RHONE-POULENC SA

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (66%); 



380 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Oil Rises $1.73 a Barrel, To Record High of $40.42

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Oil prices jumped back over $40 a barrel yesterday to a new record close in hectic futures trading. Analysts blamed dwindling United States stockpiles, looming cold weather and a British warning of a Persian Gulf conflagration.
''It's a market that reacts emotionally,'' said Bob Baker, an oil-trading specialist at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in New York. ''It's going to stay that way as long as we have 200,000-plus troops out there.'' 
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the price for November delivery of light, sweet crude - the low-sulfur benchmark grade of oil -jumped $1.73 a barrel to close at $40.42, eclipsing the previous record of $40.40 set on Tuesday. The prices for delivery in later months also advanced strongly.
The rise erased the decline of $1.71 a day earlier, when traders dumped oil contracts on an unfounded rumor about the death of Saddam Hussein. The Iraqi leader's seizure of neighboring Kuwait more than two months ago has doubled the price of oil since midsummer.
 
New Jump on Rumor
After the close of futures trading yesterday, prices rose 60 cents a barrel on the cash market because of a rumor that the Palestine Liberation Organization had launched a missile attack from Lebanon against Israeli settlements in the West Bank. The report was unfounded.
Refined products traded on the exchange also surged yesterday. The most notable increase was in wholesale home heating oil for November delivery, which jumped 3.80 cents a gallon, to $1.0485. Wholesale unleaded gasoline for November delivery rose 2.4 cents a gallon, to 96 cents, and natural gas rose 2 cents per 1,000 cubic feet, to $1.96.
Oil market strategists said buyers plunged in at the opening of trading, motivated partly by a report from the American Petroleum Institute released after the close of trading on Wednesday.
The institute, an industry trade group, said its weekly tally of domestic supplies showed a 4.2-million-barrel decline in crude stockpiles and a 1.5-million-barrel drop in distillates, which include heating oil. The declines were considered unusually steep, particularly when seasonal demand for energy to heat homes is increasing.
The report aggravated fears that the United States, which imports half its oil, was growing more vulnerable to shortages as the chances of a Persian Gulf war increased, which could cut off oil supplies from that area.
 
Briton Warns of Force
Britain's Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, heightened war fears in the oil pits by saying that force would be used to evict the Iraqis from Kuwait if they did not leave voluntarily.
He said that without a united front against Iraq, ''We shall be back in a world of anarchy punctuated by explosions of force.''
Thomas Blakeslee, an energy analyst at the Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J., said the rhetoric unnerved professional traders, even though Mr. Hurd's remarks were basically no different from warnings to Iraq issued by the United States.
''Traders don't sit down and think about that type of thing,'' Mr. Blakeslee said. ''They don't have time.''

GRAPHIC: Graph indicating price of barrel of oil for period July to October 11, 1990. (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KUWAIT (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); FUTURES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); WHOLESALERS (86%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); GASOLINE (79%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); NATURAL GAS (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (65%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (64%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%); 



381 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: The Credit Markets;
Treasuries Drop in Volatile Day

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell again in volatile trading yesterday, pushed lower by the same unsettling melange of factors that have dominated trading for some time.
Prices had moved higher during overnight trading in the Far East, helped by a report in The Washington Post yesterday that suggested that while Federal Reserve Board governors had agreed to lower short-term interest rates once a Federal budget agreement had passed, concerns about inflation would limit the size of the rate cut.
But the tone changed sharply once trading shifted to the United States, where Treasury prices moved lower in the wake of a plunging dollar, rising oil prices and uncertainty surrounding an auction of $5 billion of 30-year bonds for the Resolution Funding Corporation.
 
Not a Success
Worries about the Refcorp auction were heightened on Wednesday, when the Treasury struggled to sell $8.5 billion of seven-year notes. While the worst fears over the auction did not materialize, the sale was not an unqualified success, analysts and traders said. The new bonds were sold at an average yield of 9.33 percent. 
''The auction was not a disaster, but there is a sense that the street picked up the bulk of the issue,'' said William V. Sullivan Jr., a senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds.
Foreign participation at the Refcorp sale was virtually nil, traders said, but overseas investors have never been keen on Refcorp securities, largely because the market for them is quite illiquid when compared with Treasuries.
The Washington Post report of the Oct. 2 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-making body, appeared to confirm the widespread expectation that a budget deal would induce the central bank to relax monetary policy. It also underscored serious concern among many policy makers about stoking inflation, particularly at a time of surging oil prices.
When asked for comment, a Fed spokesman said the account contained ''important inaccuracies'' but declined to specify them. Another Fed official who attended the meeting said it was ''disappointing'' that one or more sources had broken the normal Fed silence surrounding the committee's meetings.
 
'Junk Bonds' Decline
Elsewhere, a further drop in stock market prices, prompted in large part by a sharp cut in Chemical Banking's dividend, helped push down prices for high-yield ''junk bonds.'' Traders said that prices of most high-yield issues fell by about 3/4 point yesterday on thin volume.
Although the market's decline has pushed yields well above 20 percent, participants in the high-yield market said yesterday the current problems were a reflection of the concerns seen in all financial markets, particularly the stock market.
As the most speculative fixed-income instruments, prices of high-yield securities have been highly sensitive to the threats of war, inflation and recession, which have intensified since the onset of the Middle East crisis in early August.
''In my view, what has happened in our market is 100 percent related to the stock market,'' said David Fineman, a high-yield bond trader at Jefferies & Company in Los Angeles.
Tracing the latest downward spiral in the high-yield market to the beginning of August, when Iraq marched into Kuwait, Mr. Fineman said: ''If I see the price of oil exploding, I am very reticent to make bids for junk bonds. You would have a real solid rally in junk if there were a settlement in the Middle East.''
 
Increase Since August
Since the Aug. 2 invasion, the average yield on 20 widely held junk issues tracked by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities has risen by more than 5.5 percentage points, to 20.93 percent yesterday from 15.36 percent.
During the same period, the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average, which dropped 42.82 points yesterday, has fallen more than 500 points, or about 18 percent.
''The high-yield market is very weak right now,'' said Peter Karches, head of high-yield trading and sales at Morgan Stanley & Company. ''But anything that helps the equity market would help the high-yield market.''
Treasury dealers also sold securities yesterday in preparation for what is likely to be an extremely bad report, expected this morning, on producer price inflation in September.
Largely because of the continued run-up in oil prices, analysts expect that September's Producer Price Index will show an increase that equals, or possibly exceeds, the huge 1.3 percent gain recorded in August. #30-Year Bonds Those concerns were reflected in the secondary market for Treasury securities, and by late yesterday the 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 96 21/32, down 9/32, to yield 9.07 percent, compared with 9.05 percent late Wednesday.
Among note issues, the 8 3/4 percent 10-year notes fell 1/8 point, to a late offered price of 98 30/32, to yield 8.91 percent. And the 8 1/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 9/32, down 1/32, to yield 7.96 percent.
Meanwhile, short-term Treasury bill rates moved lower. In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.13 percent, down five basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by eight basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.14 percent.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, prices of most issues dipped by 1/8 point to 1/4 point in very quiet trading. In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, prices of most widely quoted issues fell by 1/4 point.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose during the week ended Oct. 1. The report had no impact on fixed-income prices.

GRAPHIC: Chart of weekly yields for 20 obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (56%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BOND ISSUES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



382 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
Downgradings at Record

 BODY:
The credit quality of American corporations declined at a record pace in the first three quarters of this year, Moody's Investors Service Inc. has reported, with a third of the downgradings affecting financial institutions like banks, savings and loans and insurance and finance companies.
The agency said on Tuesday that a rising number of defaults on corporate bonds are expected to continue for the next several quarters. 
There were 308 downgrades of American bond issuers in the first nine months of the year, compared with 339 downgrades in all of 1989. So far this year, the bond ratings of 79 corporations have been raised, far fewer than the 138 rating increases last year.
Moody's noted that so far this year, downgradings have outpaced upgradings by nearly 4 to 1, a record pace that compares with a ratio of nearly 3 to 1 during the 1982 recession, the previous record for the post-World War II period.
In dollar terms, the rating agency said, the worth of the downgraded securities totaled $263 billion in the first three quarters in 1990, or about a quarter of the American companies' total outstanding bonds in the domestic and international markets. The total worth of the rating increases was about $64 billion.
Moody's noted that so far this year, rising oil prices had not been a primary cause of the downgradings, although that could change if oil prices continued to rise sharply and remained high for a prolonged period, putting companies that are heavy uses of petroleum products at risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC

SUBJECT: CREDIT; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CORPORATIONS FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); BONDS (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND ISSUES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); WORLD WAR II (53%); 



383 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Posts Broad Decline And Gold Prices Are Mixed

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most major currencies on concern about the health of United States banks and the belief among foreign traders that the United States is headed for a sharp recession.
Gold finished mixed in world trading, while silver continued its slide to its lowest levels in 13 years.
The dollar fared well in European trading on increased anxieties over the Persian Gulf crisis. But it dropped in New York as concerns about United States banks intensified on the Chemical Bank's move to cut its common stock dividend to 25 cents a share after posting a third-quarter loss of $43.7 million. 
''It's down hard today,'' Marc Chandler, senior strategist with the consulting firm IDEA in New York, said of the dollar.
He said other factors influencing its drop included a general bearishness in the market, continued confusion in Federal budget negotiations and tensions in the Middle East.
''We also continue to hear talk of Japanese life insurance companies raising their dollar hedge ratios,'' Mr. Chandler said. ''That means they're selling more dollars to reduce their currency risk.''
The dollar ended the day off only slightly against the yen in New York trading but it weakened considerably against the pound sterling and the German mark.
The dollar closed in New York at 129.47 yen, down from Wednesday's 129.48. Earlier in Tokyo, the dollar closed at 129.95 Japanese yen, unchanged from its closing rate on Tuesday before Wednesday's Sports Day national holiday. In London late yesterday the dollar closed at the same rate.
In London, one British pound cost $1.9640 late yesterday, cheaper for buyers than Wednesday's late $1.9755. But in New York, it cost $1.9775 to buy one pound, up from $1.9694 late Wednesday.
Against the German currency, the dollar fell to 1.5138 marks, from 1.5278.
Other selected late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday rates, included: 1.2730 Swiss francs, down from 1.2810; 5.0705 French francs, down from 5.1145; 1,134.75 Italian lire, down from 1,145.00, and 1.1468 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1491.
On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery rose $1.60 to settle at $389.70 a troy ounce. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $391.00, up $2.75 an ounce from late Wednesday.
Gold closed in London at a bid $389.75 a troy ounce, down from $390.25 late Wednesday. The late bid price in Zurich was $389.60, down from $390.75.
Earlier in Hong Kong gold closed at $390.05, down from $392.15.
Silver continued its slide on the Comex. Silver bullion for current delivery settled at $4.235 a troy ounce, down further from Wednesday's sharp drop to $4.409 - its lowest level since August 1977. Silver traded late in London at a bid $4.28 a troy ounce, down from $4.53 Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (88%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CHEMICAL BANK (57%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (51%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (51%); NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); INSURANCE (70%); DIVIDENDS (70%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (52%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



384 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Announces Reductions Of $2.3 Billion in Capital Budget

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
In perhaps the most telling sign of the fiscal problems that are ahead for New York City, the Dinkins administration yesterday said that it would cut $2.3 billion from the nearly $16 billion it planned to spend on capital programs in the next three years.
The cuts would mean reductions of 31.5 percent in spending for areas like parks, libraries and highway and street reconstruction and 15.8 percent in spending for schools, bridges and housing. Most spending on jails, hospitals, mass transit, fire and police equipment, much of which comes in response to the law or court orders, would be exempt from the reductions.
The capital program, begun after the city recovered from the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, has largely been immune to cuts and has grown substantially, partly because of the severity of the city's infrastructure problems. In May, Mayor David N. Dinkins proposed a no-growth capital spending plan, and warned of the need for future cuts. 
 
Deferring Some Dreams
More than any other sign of economic prosperity, the rebirth of a capital-spending program signaled New York's faith in a bright fiscal future after the dark years of the 1970's. There were plans to spruce up parks and museums, reconstruct roads and repair bridges, renovate courtrooms and playgrounds. The city-financed capital commitment almost quadrupled between 1984 and the 1991 plan.
Officials said yesterday that some of those dreams would be deferred because of the cuts that would save $1.1 billion in interest and principal payments through fiscal year 2001 and more after that. While capital projects are paid for through long-term bonds, the interest and annual principal repayments come from current revenues, which are in decline.
''This is the first time capital spending has been reined in since the fiscal crisis,'' said Budget Director Philip R. Michael. ''Will there be dramatic differences between what could have been and what will be? Yes.'' ''In areas where there would have been roads, they won't be there,'' Mr. Michael said. ''There will be fewer miles of reconstruction of highways, fewer park renovations and fewer schools going up.''
 
Pressed for Details
The announcement of the cuts came only a day after members of the State Financial Control Board urged Mayor Dinkins to move more quickly to detail his plans for keeping the budget balanced. Concern over the city's finances grew last week after Mr. Dinkins, in swift sucession, announced a tentative 5.5 percent raise for teachers and hundreds of millions of dollars in proposed new taxes to expand the criminal-justice system.
The Mayor then detailed a projected budget gap of at least $1.4 billion for the fiscal year that starts next July 1, and the possibility of 15,000 city layoffs.
''It is, without a doubt, a very, very tough program,'' Mr. Dinkins said of the capital-spending cut. ''But even scaled down, it represents the largest public works program of any city in the nation, perhaps in the world.''
Mr. Dinkins said he would adopt a final plan by Dec. 15 for review by the public and the City Council. The plan is subject to the Council's approval.
Peg Breen, a spokeswoman for the City Council, said yesterday that the budget modifications appear prudent, but Council members have to review specific cuts before assessing the plan.
City officials said all the scheduled plans were important to a city with parks in disrepair and overcrowded schools. Although saying ''some of our municipal dreams will be deferred, but the most important will not be denied,'' Mr. Dinkins said the projects of greatest need will continue. He and Mr. Michael said it is too early to detail them. #20 Percent Cuts Sought ''What's important about this is it's the first recognition since 1982 that the long-term economic outlook isn't one that can sustain long-range capital spending as was planned,'' said Charles Brecher, director of research for the Citizens Budget Commission, a civic organization that monitors the finances of New York City and state.
The commission, which is financed by businesses, recently issued a report calling for the city to cut its capital commitments by 20 percent. Mr. Brecher said yesterday that the new proposals are in the right direction.
''It's a sad necessity, not something to be happy about,'' Mr. Brecher said.
Mr. Dinkins, looking drawn and tense, said yesterday that the retrenchment on capital-spending projects is a recognition that ''we cannot spend what we do not have.''
Mr. Dinkins said that when times were good, the capital program was a wish list. He said now is the time to begin turning things around.
The city placed spending programs in three categories: those exempt because of mandates or other special reasons; those designated for 15.8 percent spending reductions, and those specified for 31.5 percent reductions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor David N. Dinkins announced a cutback of $2.3 billion from the nearly $16 billion the city planned to spend on capital programs in the next three years. With him at news conference were Philip R. Michael, center, the city's Budget Director, and Richard Schaffer, the city's Planning Director. (Angel Franco/The New York Times);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATE FINANCIAL BANK-WATERFORD (51%); CITY COUNCIL (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (91%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CITIES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); BONDS (64%); BUDGET FORECASTS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); MICHAEL, PHILIP R DAVID N DINKINS (95%); PHILIP R MICHAEL (59%); CHARLES BRECHER (58%); 



385 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
World Bank May Grant Teheran First Loan Since 1979 Revolution

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
The World Bank is expected to lend as much as $300 million to Iran next year, in the bank's first loan to the Teheran Government since before the 1979 Islamic revolution, American officials and banking specialists said today.
American officials said the Bush Administration hoped that the loan would offer it leverage to prevent Iran from violating the United Nations embargo imposed on Iraq after the invasion of Kuwait. The loan would be used to rebuild areas of Iran devastated by an earthquake last summer.
''If Iran were suddenly to break the embargo on Iraq, then obviously we'd oppose any World Bank lending to Iran,'' an American official said. ''For now, we will not oppose it.'' 
Although the United States does not have veto power on World Bank loans, it could almost certainly round up enough Western support to block a loan to Iran.
Banking specialists said Iran's request for the loan was an important signal of its intention to resume involvement in world financial markets, and of its desire to improve relations with the United States and other Western nations.
For the first 10 years after the fall of the Shah in 1979, Iran did not seek international loans, fearing that borrowing from the West could pose a threat to the nation's independence.
 
First Since Revolution
Iran has made requests for loans from private Western banks in the last year. Banking experts said they understood that the earthquake relief loan would be the first major substantial loan to Iran under the Islamic Government from the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank, the two giant international lending agencies.
Loans made by the World Bank, a Washington-based agency that is nominally part of the United Nations system and is formally known as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, are largely underwritten by the United States and other Western nations.
''There is great psychological significance in this,'' said Sharif Ghalib, director of the Africa and Middle East department of the Institute of International Finance, a Washington-based research organization. ''The loan itself is not as important as the signal it sends that Iran wishes return to a financial and technical relationship with the West.''
American officials and banking authorities said they understood that the loan would be approved by the World Bank later this year or early next year. It would be intended for housing reconstruction in a coastal area along the Caspian Sea, which was left in rubble after the June earthquake. Nearly 35,000 people are said to have died.
Peter Riddleberger, a spokesman for the World Bank, said it had recently sent a delegation to Iran ''to investigate the feasibility of an earthquake reconstruction loan.''
''Some of the members of that team are back in town now and are assessing their findings,'' he said. ''It seems like things are moving along at a fairly normal pace and perhaps by the end of the year, there would be a proposal for a reconstruction loan.''
He said he could not predict whether the loan would eventually be approved by the bank's executive board.
Loan decisions are based on a vote on World Bank member nations. The voting is weighted, and each member's share of the vote is roughly equivalent to its economic strength. The United States has about one-fifth of the vote.
In international financial circles, Iran is seen as a relatively good credit risk, especially after the dramatic jump in the price of oil that followed the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August.
''Iran has a good history of making payments on its debt, even during the Iran-Iraq war,'' Mr. Ghalib said.
 
Break From Khomeini Policies
In a major break from the policies of the regime of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who died in June 1989, the Iranian Government announced last year that it would begin borrowing abroad for development projects.
Since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, the Bush Administraton has sent a number of conciliatory messages to Iran through diplomatic channels and has urged Iran to adhere to the economic and military sanctions imposed on Iraq by the United Nations.
While the United States has little first-hand information about Iran's intentions regarding the sanctions, the Administration is hoping that Teheran's interest in obtaining Western aid to rebuild its economy will override any impulse to break the embargo.
The Iranian Government has publicly vowed to support the sactions against the Iraqi Government of Saddam Hussein.
''The World Bank loan could be another carrot to the Iranians, another sign from the United States that we want to improve relations with Teheran and that we want their help in isolating Saddam,'' an Administration official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); IRAN (90%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (73%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN; MIDDLE EAST ; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EARTHQUAKES; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; EMBARGOES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RELIGION (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); VETO (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); COASTAL AREAS (60%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP GRANT TEHERAN (69%); 



386 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLE;
HOUSE DEMOCRATS BACK DEFICIT PLAN FOR TAXES ON RICH

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Saturday, Oct. 13

 BODY:
House Democrats on Friday embraced a deficit-reduction plan intended to portray their party as the champion of the poor and middle class, while a battered White House sought to reassert some influence over the budget process.
Early this morning in the Senate, where the Finance Committee chairman, Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, lacked the votes on his panel to pass a purely Democratic plan, members agreed to a bipartisan plan that would increase gasoline taxes by 9.5 cents, limit tax deductions for those earning more than $100,000 and raise the portion of wages subject to Medicare payroll taxes to $89,000 from the current $51,300.
The aim is to cut the Federal deficit by $40 billion in the 1991 fiscal year and $500 billion over the next five years.
 
White House Hopes
The Bush Administration hopes that the Finance Committee's bipartisan approach will become the vehicle for compromise when Congress resumes its budget deliberations next week. Congress faces a Friday deadline for completion of the most important tax-and-spending legislation in years. 
Exhausted by the budget deliberations that have all but consumed Congress and the White House for the last month, lawmakers headed home last night, and President Bush left at midafternoon for a weekend at Camp David. He used the Marine helicopter he shunned last weekend when he traveled from the Presidential retreat in Maryland by motorcade to cut costs when the Government was shut down for lack of spending legislation.
After a week of conflicting public pronouncements by President Bush about his position on tax rate increases, Administration officials found themselves caught between warring factions of House Republicans so bitterly divided that they have been unable to find common ground on any kind of alternative to the Democratic proposal.
 
Higher Taxes on Wealthy
The House Democratic plan, announced in its final form yesterday by the Ways and Means Committee chairman, Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, would increase a variety of taxes on the wealthy, including income taxes, and offer a novel type of capital gains tax cut for the middle class. While the wealthy would also derive some advantage from the proposal, the tax breaks are carefully aimed to benefit the middle class. The House plan would also avoid deep spending cuts in the Medicare program or any increases in gasoline taxes.
House Democratic strategists see their plan, which has attracted wide support among party members in the House, as a powerful bargaining weapon in future budget deliberations. It offers Democrats the political opportunity of forcing Mr. Bush and his party to be defenders of the wealthiest taxpayers as Congress tries to reach a consensus on the budget next week.
The capital gains provision in the House Democratic plan would allow individuals to exclude from taxes 50 percent of their profits on sales of real estate, timber, farms and small businesses, up to a lifetime limit of $200,000.
This tax break would not apply to stocks and bonds, but they would be covered by another provision intended specifically to benefit taxpayers with incomes under $100,000. The tax breaks would cost the Treasury $15.8 billion over five years. But this would be more than offset by the Democratic proposals for higher taxes on the wealthy. One provision is to impose a 10 percent surtax on people with incomes over $1 million and raise the top tax rate for families with incomes over $200,000 to 33 percent from the current 28 percent and increase the alternative minimum tax from the current 21 percent to 25 percent. The alternative minimum tax is applied to wealthy individuals whose deductions, exemptions and exclusions are so large that they would otherwise pay a lower tax.
 
Plea for 'Bare Bones' Plan
Hoping to stave off the Democratic plan, President Bush met at the White House yesterday with small groups of Republicans and Democrats to plead for what his spokesman described as a ''bare bones'' deficit reduction plan. ''What that means is something very close to the bipartisan budget agreement,'' said the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, referring to a plan negotiated by the Administration and top Congressional leaders and overwhelmingly rejected by the House last week.
''The Ways and Means Committee report that came out a couple of days ago is the closest to that and represents a good plan that we can work with,'' Mr. Fitzwater added. But that plan, adopted without recommendation by the tax panel, was intentionally crafted to clear the way for the partisan bonanza that Democratic leaders offered their rank-and-file members yesterday. Even some Republicans acknowledged it would be hard to resist the Rostenkowski package, especially just weeks before the Nov. 6 Congressional elections.
''For the first time, you're seeing the difference between the Democratic Party and what they want to do and the Republican Party and who they want to protect,'' Mr. Rostenkowski said. A senior House Democratic leadership aide, clearly relishing the prospect of taking the plan to the House floor next week with solid Democratic support, put it more bluntly. ''We're bonded again,'' he said.
While House Democrats gloated, their Republican counterparts made little headway on a plan of their own, with some factions arguing that their package should include a sharp cut in the capital gains tax rates and a small increase in top tax income rates for the wealthy. Other factions were pressing for deeper cuts in domestic spending programs other than Medicare.
''This is Beirut on the Potomac; there are more warring factions than I can count,'' said Representative Marge Roukema, a moderate Republican from New Jersey, who left a closed party conference early yesterday in frustration. ''If we're going to keep rethrashing issues and continuing to put the party in a position where we're certifiably giving huge tax breaks for the rich, I don't want to add to the confusion.''
Representative Don Sundquist, a Tennessee Republican who serves on the Ways and Means Committee, bemoaned the position his party has found itself in and said it was a mistake for the White House to have ever entered into negotiations with Congressional Democrats on a budget plan. ''It was a way of getting compromise and they used it for political advantage,'' he said.
Mr. Sundquist said the chance of getting a new bipartisan compromise ''decreases every day.'' If Republicans cannot put together a package that gets broad support, he added, ''I would encourage my colleagues to go to the voters and say, 'We're going to test the election on this.' ''
 
G.O.P. Candidates Hurt
But other Republicans did not find that prospect particularly inviting. At a White House meeting on Thursday, Representative Guy Vander Jagt, the Michigan Republican who heads the Congressional campaign effort for his party, told President Bush that polling data showed that many Republican challengers in House races had entered ''a free fall'' in their election campaigns.
The final plan Mr. Rostenkowski announced yesterday is intended to take advantage of the confusion over the Republicans' position on taxes by eliminating features of the rejected budget summit agreement that rank and file members in both parties had objected to and offering tax breaks for the middle class.
Democrats were eager to jettison the 12-cent-a-gallon increase in the Federal gas tax included in the budget agreement defeated by the House last week. It would have been one of the most visible elements of the plan - reminding voters everytime they drove up to a gas pump that Congress had raised taxes - and was viewed as disproportionately painful for low- and middle-income wage earners.
The 50 percent lifetime exclusion for $200,000 in capital gains is modeled after a system used in Canada. The exclusion would be available only to individuals 25 or older, and it would apply both to assets already owned and those newly acquired. Although the wealthy could also get some advantage from the plan, they would quickly reach the cap.
A separate provision would permit individuals to realize up to $1,000 each year in capital gains without having to pay any tax. This tax break would be available for all assets, including stocks and bonds, held for at least one year and would be phased out for individuals with incomes of $100,000 to $150,000. It would not count against the lifetime limit.
Capital gains are currently taxed at the same rate as ordinary income, 28 percent for most people. Although the House Democratic plan would raise the top tax rate for families earning above $200,000, to 33 percent from the current 28 percent, the maximum capital gains rate under the proposal would not exceed 28 percent.
Another provision incorporated in the plan yesterday would freeze for one year the arrangement in the current tax code that annually adjusts tax exemptions for inflation. On Thursday, Mr. Rostenkowski announced a similar freeze on the annual inflation adjustment for tax brackets.
 
Senate vs. House Plans
The plan approved by the Senate Finance Committee differs from the House plan in several important respects. It would include no capital gains reduction or increase in the top income tax rate. In addition to increasing the gasoline tax and raising the portion of wages subject to a Medicare payroll tax, it would impose a 5 percent floor on itemized deductions for taxpayers with incomes over $100,000. The plan also would raise the deductible Medicare recipients pay before their coverage takes over to $150 from the current $75. In addition, the panel has agreed on $3.5 billion in tax breaks for oil and gas producers that would be phased in if the price of oil drops below $34.
Overall, the House Democratic plan would raise more than $140 billion in new revenue over the next five years. The plan would raise taxes on cigarettes, beer, wine and spirits; impose a 10 percent luxury tax on expensive cars, boats, private airplanes, furs and jewelry, and increase the wage base for the payroll tax that finances part of the Medicare program to $100,000 from the current $51,300.
The Medicare programwould be cut by $43 billion. The spending cut would mean that the monthly premiums recipients pay would rise from $28.60 to $29.90 in 1991 and then rise at a pace slower than the expected rate of inflation for the next four years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: House Democrats announced a new budget plan they said would tax the wealthy, avoid deep cuts in Medicare and avoid any increase in the gasoline tax. Representative Dan Rostenkowski, right, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, discussed the plan with Representative Sam M. Gibbons. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)(pg10); Table listing highlights of the House Democrats' proposed cut in the capital gains tax. (pg10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ; INCOME TAX; TAX DEDUCTIONS BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); GASOLINE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); BONDS (64%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F ; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



387 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Tunisians Discussed Gulf Solution in Baghdad

 BODY:
To the Editor:
To set the record straight on the mention in a Sept. 24 news article that ''a high-ranking delegation'' from Tunisia discussed ''economic cooperation'' in Baghdad:
The Tunisia delegation was led by Prime Minister Hamed Karoui. The purpose of the visit to Baghdad was to convey a written message from President Ben Ali concerning Tunisian proposals for a peaceful settlement of the Persian Gulf crisis. The same proposals had recently been presented to many other governments in the world, including that of the United States.
At his arrival in Baghdad, the Prime Minister declared, ''President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali has entrusted me with conveying a written message to President Saddam Hussein pertaining to the gulf crisis in the framework of the search for a peaceful settlement of this issue.'' Following his meeting with the Iraqi leader, Mr. Karoui stated, ''We agreed on the necessity to find a peaceful solution to the crisis.''
No ''economic cooperation'' with Iraq was discussed during the visit, and it is important to emphasize in this respect Tunisia's continued adherence to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and its respect for the resolutions of the Security Council on the Persian Gulf crisis, including Resolution 661 on the embargo.
 
ABDELAZIZ HAMZAOUI
Ambassador of Tunisia
to the United States
 Washington, Sept. 27, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: TUNISIA (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; TUNISIA; KUWAIT; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: HAMZAOUI, ABDELAZIZ (AMB) SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); 



388 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Helping Break the Ice in Korea

 BODY:
North Korea has started to break out of its long, icy alienation from the West. Kim Il Sung, the only leader the North has ever had, recently welcomed a high-level Japanese delegation as ''old friends'' and agreed to talks on establishing diplomatic ties.
By following in Japan's footsteps, Washington could widen the opening to the North. That, in turn, could relax hostility on the peninsula and encourage a broader range of contacts between North and South Korea. 
The end of the cold war has freed Korean diplomacy from its ideological straitjacket. Moscow was the first to move, establishing ties with the South that have quickly expanded to full diplomatic relations. Washington initiated discreet contact with the North in late 1988 but has let Tokyo take the lead in coaxing Pyongyang out of its self-imposed isolation. In response Pyongyang is freeing two Japanese seamen whose seven-year imprisonment on spy charges poisoned relations with Tokyo.
Now it's Washington's turn. The United States has much to gain from contact with the North. That could cool passions on the peninsula, long a flash point, and encourage the North to open its nuclear facilities to international inspection. It could also allow the U.S. to bring more of its 45,000 troops home, along with all their nuclear weapons. And it could permit a slowed tempo of naval operations offshore.
Pyongyang, which feels itself threatened by the American presence, should appreciate these steps. And its faltering economy may necessitate expanded exchange with the industrialized world.
Spartan self-sufficiency worked to a point for the North, but that point is long past. Lacking the arable land to feed its industrial workers, it is looking abroad for grain. And it has proceeded as far as it can on the road to industrialization without high-technology imports. Having grown at roughly 3 percent a year over the past decade, one-third the South's pace, it is now experiencing a fall in industrial production.
Great Leader Kim may fear that increased contact with the non-Communist world will loosen his grip. And his closed society is more vulnerable to the shock of recognition than China's. But a gradual opening up may be preferable to continuing economic erosion that eventually sets off a political landslide, as in East Germany or Romania.
South Korea is uneasy about Japan's approach to the North. But it can afford to be more self-confident. As a sign of that, Seoul is now willing to discuss North Korea's formula for sharing a United Nations seat and to negotiate on arms cuts. And it has begun relaxing oppressive laws against fraternization with the North. But some South Koreans still languish in prison for violating those outdated statutes. And Seoul is still too timid about encouraging people-to-people ties. The new fluidity in Korea diplomacy is a welcome result of a thaw in the Far East. Washington can do more to encourage further warming by expanding contacts with Pyongyang.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); GERMANY (74%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); COLD WAR (75%); NAVIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); ESPIONAGE (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (74%); 



389 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: The Golden Door, Ajar

 BODY:
Congress, having transformed the law on illegal immigration in 1986, is on the verge of another remarkable achievement: the first major reform of legal immigration in 25 years.
Thanks to an extraordinary coalition of conservatives and liberals, the Senate and House have passed bills that would make it easier for families to reunite and for businesses to recruit workers. The bills honor America's history as a nation of immigrants, while recognizing the need for economic growth.
Under present policy, about 540,000 immigrants enter the country each year. About 90 percent of them are related to people already residing in the United States. That leaves about 54,000 slots for skilled workers and their dependents. If America is to meet global competition, it ought to be easier for the best and brightest workers to come here.
The House version was more generous. It allowed for 775,000 new immigrants each year, compared with 630,000 allowed by the Senate bill. Senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming, however, refused to accept the higher number, and he got both sides to accept a cap of about 675,000 for the next four years.
Of that total, about 480,000 would qualify under various family preferences; 140,000 would be admitted as independents or skilled workers; 55,000 would be admitted from regions that are now underrepresented. In addition, procedures for securing various employment-related visas would be streamlined.
Congress can readjust the numbers in four years and may have to, in order to keep a growing number of family members from being squeezed out.
This sensible legislation retains the heart of American immigration policy by stressing family reunification and providing for skilled workers. The House and Senate deserve credit for keeping America's golden door open.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR IMMIGRATION (95%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); 

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON (56%); 



390 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
It was once the case that when a nation went to war, religion, too, signed on for the duration. But during the Vietnam War and the drawn-out conflicts in Central America, America's religious leaders split. Some blessed the Government's ventures, while many were active in anti-war organizations.
The volunteer Army and rapid mobilization have put religious leaders at a disadvantage. Two months ago, the largest military buildup since Vietnam took place without America's religious leaders doing much more than nodding in somewhat tentative acquiescence. If they had doubts, these were overcome by recognition of the brutality of President Saddam Hussein of Iraq and his country's invasion of Kuwait, and by the international consensus that President Bush put together in support of his policy. 
Now Christian leaders of many denominations are seriously discussing the moral issues raised by the our Persian Gulf intervention. Not a moment too soon, goes one reaction. Let's only hope that morality survives, goes another.
Both reactions are right. In the Persian Gulf, the United States faces excruciating moral decisions, and it needs all the guidance it can get. It faces an adversary who has proved himself ready to ignore whatever rules of warfare have managed to establish themselves. The temptation for the United States to do the same will be great.
But whether the churches are well equipped to give sound moral leadership is another matter.
Some of the positions staked out in recent weeks are grounded in established religious tradition. Catholic moralists took sharp objection, for example, when several top miltary officials suggested that American action against Iraq might open with a virtually unrestrained bombing campaign.
The principle that civilian populations should not be the target of military strikes was widely violated in terror bombing during World War II as well as at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. But it remains a central point in ''just war theory,'' the tradition that tries to distinguish between just and unjust warfare. It is a tradition that Catholic moralists have kept alive but one with strong secular roots and with parallels in other religious traditions.
By no means does everyone accept ''just war theory.'' And applying its principles involves judgments about concrete circumstances that are inevitably debatable. Is military force being used only as a ''last resort,'' for instance, or are the likely benefits of a military action ''proportional'' to the likely harm? But the theory's premises and its implications have been thoroughly spelled out over centuries of both religious and secular discussion.
Not so some of the other approaches that church leaders are now offering to testing the morality of the Persian Gulf policy. Consider three of the themes running through many critical examinations of that policy. One is the history of Western colonial powers and the United States in dominating and exploiting regions of the Middle East - and even of arming Saddam Hussein himself as a counter against Iran. Another is America's greedy, oil-guzzling and energy-wasting life style. A third is America's reliance on military might rather than diplomacy and economic sanctions.
One could debate some of the particulars of these indictments, but supposing that in very important respects they are true, it remains unclear what follows. In religious terms, the United States should repent its past and amend its present. But what does that mean specifically, here and now, for actions in the gulf?
Should awareness of past failings make us more self-critical about our present motives, more understanding of the way our presence is perceived as a threat - or should these failings perhaps disqualify the United States morally from acting in the region at all?
Presume that remedying energy overconsumption, and all the other things wrong with American society, is an overdue but nonetheless complicated and long-term process. Should America suspend efforts to insure oil supplies until those goals are achieved? Is the oil issue in the gulf a matter primarily of a few cents on a gallon of gas or of guaranteeing Americans a luxurious life style? Is the potential control of nearly half the world's petroleum supply by a ruthless dictator a legitimate matter of national interest and international order?
There are different plausible answers to these questions. But if themes like Western dominance in the Middle East or America's life style are to contribute to the moral discussion of gulf policy, then these further questions must be asked and the answers spelled out. One cannot slide by implication to a conclusion about the gulf crisis without making the intervening arguments explicit.
Two characteristics seem to mark the more outspoken religious critics of the gulf policy. The first is a deep revulsion, both moral and visceral, from any use of military force. The second is a deep distrust of the United States's capacity to act constructively overseas.
Both of these are defensible positions, especially in the face of a potential conflagration in the Middle East. But holding to them may not always or necessarily coincide with the most effective measures for countering Saddam Hussein - and when that looks like the case, the critics should candidly admit that they face a hard choice. They, above all, should know that this is not the best of all possible worlds.
Politicians already offer emotional appeals and short-hand conclusions. The churches can contribute disciplined moral reasoning that acknowledges premises, spells out arguments and confronts hard choices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; ETHICS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ARMIES (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ETHICS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



391 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Four Years After Birth, Should 'the Bubble' Burst?

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
As members of Congress strain to produce a budget agreement, a tax-code anomaly called ''the bubble'' has become a fixation for lawmakers, and one of the questions asked most often on Capitol Hill these days is whether to pop it.
To many, the bubble is the marker of what is frequently viewed as an overly regressive income tax code created by the Tax Reform Act of 1986, because it imposes a lower rate of tax on the income of the very wealthy than on some income of the less well to do.
And it has become central to the current debate because many argue that bursting the bubble would be a quick and effective way of redistributing the tax burden more heavily to the nation's rich while at the same time generating large amounts of new revenue to lower the huge budget deficit.
 
A Capital Gains Tradeoff
Indeed, the idea of raising income taxes on the rich has become so attractive that many Democrats are willing to accept a lowering of the tax rate on capital gains - profits from investment, which are currently taxed as ordinary income - if they can win a bursting of the bubble. 
''What you see is a political tradeoff,'' said Henry J. Aaron, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''You hope to trade more progressivity on the overall tax rates in exchange for less progressivity in the area of capital gains.''
But the rhetoric surrounding the push to pop the bubble is often larger than the regressive nature that its opponents attribute to it.
''Unfortunately, some people believe incorrectly that taxpayers subject to the 33 percent rate are being treated unfairly, compared to higher-income taxpayers whose top marginal rate is 28 percent,'' Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, wrote to a colleague earlier this year. ''In fact, the bubble does not reward the rich.''
Mr. Bradley's point addressed not only the nature of the bubble but also some tax benefits extended to those who fall within it but denied those with higher incomes.
 
How the Bubble Works
The bubble - so called because it lends that appearance on any graph illustrating the range of all income tax brackets - is a 33 percent rate of taxation that applies to part of the income of only the upper middle class and those who might be called the lower rung of the wealthy. A married couple who file jointly, for example, and who have $78,400 to $185,760 in taxable income - the figure remaining after all exemptions, deductions and adjustments are taken into account -pay a 15 percent rate on their first $32,450, 28 percent on the next $45,950 and 33 percent on the rest up to $185,760.
By contrast, a couple with taxable income of more than $185,760 pay a rate of only 28 percent. But that rate is a flat rate, applicable to every dollar of taxable income: such a couple receive no benefit from the 15 percent bracket. And unlike the couple in the bubble, who are allowed all personal exemptions in computing their taxable income, those who pay the 28 percent flat rate are allowed none.
As a result of all this, the effective tax rate - the proportion of income that is actually paid in taxes - is 28 percent for those in the upper bracket but only about 20 percent to about 25 percent for most of those in the bubble.
 
The Birth of the Bubble
The bubble sprang from the Tax Reform Act, Congress's effort four years ago to overhaul the tax system by creating fewer brackets, lowering the rate of the top ones and closing loopholes - and still have a plan that would be ''revenue neutral,'' providing neither an increase nor a decrease in Government tax revenue.
Previously, a smooth, upward-moving tax curve on successively higher incomes was accomplished by 15 different tax brackets. But limiting the number of brackets to two - at 15 and 28 percent - created problems when lawmakers sought at the same time to close off a number of loopholes.
According to tax specialists who worked on the legislation, what could not be done politically was to set a top tax rate above 28 percent. For example, no bubble would have been needed if the tax writers had been permitted to set the upper rate at 29.5 percent. But at the time, that rate was sufficiently unacceptable to a number of Republicans that any agreement would have collapsed.
Thus, to keep the bill revenue neutral, lawmakers agreed to add a surtax of five percentage points on those with taxable incomes of $78,400 to $185,760, so that their effective tax rates gradually moved toward 28 percent. So was the bubble born.
Now, however, the bubble has come to symbolize an agent for change. Bursting it, by extending the 33 percent bracket to those above the bubble, would accomplish a sorely needed goal: raising precious new revenue to reduce a behemoth deficit. And for liberals, it would realize one of their primary themes: placing a greater tax burden on the very rich. They argue that they see no reason why someone earning $3 million, for whom the loss of exemptions and the benefit of the 15 percent bracket is insignificant, should not pay an incrementally higher rate of tax than someone earning $300,000.
Many conservatives cringe at such suggestions. Defending a long-held tenet of Republican politics, they argue that if too heavy a tax burden is placed on the rich, savings and much needed investment will fall. The economic effects, they assert, could be enough to push the economy into a recession, causing widespread job losses for those of lesser income, the very group liberals say they want to protect.
This was a particulary effective argument for the Reagan Administration, which pushed through Congress some of the largest tax cuts in history. But many wonder whether the Bush Administration believes as strongly in the argument and whether the political pressure facing many Republicans will enable the White House to hold a hard line.
As a result, a number of tradeoffs that would exchange a tax cut in capital gains for a higher income tax rate on the wealthy are circulating.
In the House, the boldest plan has been proposed by Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who heads the House Ways and Means Committee. Today he proposed major new taxes on the rich - a 10 percent surtax on those earning more than $1 million and extending the 33 percent rate to the upper-income bracket - as well as a capital gains rate cut that is geared almost entirely toward owners of small businesses and middle-income taxpayers. Mr. Rostenkowski's staff estimated that the bubble-bursting provision alone would add $44 billion to the Treasury over the next five years.
House Republicans, meanwhile, are discussing a plan, which has a very slim chance of passage, that would lower the capital gains tax to 15 percent while increasing the upper-income tax bracket to 31 percent. In the Senate, Republican opposition to an increase in the top tax rate has effectively blocked any tradeoff with a capital gains cut.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the tax rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); TAX REFORM (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); MARRIAGE (60%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C BILL BRADLEY (58%); 



392 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Egypt's Parliament Speaker Is Assassinated by Gunmen

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAIRO, Oct. 12

 BODY:
The Speaker of Egypt's Parliament was assassinated today outside a luxury hotel by the Nile. Police officials and witnesses said gunmen on motorcycles sprayed his chauffeured sedan with automatic-rifle fire before disappearing into the warrenlike streets of the Egyptian capital.
The Speaker, Rifaat al-Mahgoub, a 64-year-old lawyer, was the country's second-ranking official and the most prominent Egyptian political leader to be assassinated since Islamic fundamentalists gunned down President Anwar el-Sadat in October 1981.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, which also killed three of Mr. Mahgoub's guards, but the suspicion of many ordinary Egyptians fell on either Muslim fundamentalists or Palestinians armed and inspired by Iraqi agents. 
 
Opposition to Iraqi Invasion
Egypt, the leading Arab ally of the United States and the only Arab country formally at peace with Israel, has taken the lead in opposing Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
On Wednesday, Interior Minister Abdel Halim Moussa said the authorities were investigating five cases in which terrorists ''of Palestinian and other Arab nationalities'' were caught entering Egypt with plans for ''the assassination and destabilization of Egypt's security.''
''They have confessed that they came to join other elements, living in Egypt for years, to commit their crimes,'' he said.
After today's killing, the minister told reporters, ''It could be an internal operation or an external one.''
Witnesses to Mr. Mahgoub's assassination and the police said two gunmen, on the rear seats of motorcycles driven by accomplices, ambushed his black Mercedes as it drove by the 28-story Semiramis Intercontinental Hotel, one of a string of high-rises on the east bank of the Nile, and a block from the United States Embassy. The hotel's guests include senior figures from Kuwait's Government-in-exile.
 
A Minute of Intense Shooting
''There was about a minute of very intensive firing, and we all threw ourselves to the ground,'' said a British guest at the Semiramis. Shortly after the shooting, the body of one bodyguard in the Mercedes lay in the front seat, and the body of a second guard hung from the door of a blue Peugeot escort vehicle about 200 yards away. Brass cartridge casings littered the streets.
Egypt's Middle East News Agency said the assailants later opened fire on police officers who tried to prevent them from crossing a bridge across the Nile as they sped off after the killing. But no other injuries were reported, and no arrests were reported either.
According to the Constitution, the Parliament Speaker is the second-ranking official in the country after the President. Mr. Mahgoub's real power was limited to the 458-seat Parliament, where he was viewed as a loyalist of President Hosni Mubarak. He had been Speaker since 1984.
Mr. Mahgoub had a law degree from Cairo University and a doctorate in economics from the Sorbonne. He became Minister for Presidential Affairs in the Sadat Cabinet in 1972 and was named Deputy Prime Minister three years later.
Western diplomats said his killing raised concerns about Egypt's internal security at a time when officials say the Government has been targeted along with other Arab governments opposed to Iraq for their support of United States policy in the Persian Gulf.
On Thursday, President Mubarak told reporters: ''We are not afraid of anything. We do not need any security assistance from abroad. We are more secure than ever before, because the security organizations in our country are on alert.''
 
Claims of Responsibility
Since the killing of Mr. Sadat, a variety of Arab nationalist and Islamic fundamentalist groups have taken responsibility for killings or attempted killings on Cairo's streets. Their targets have included Israeli and American diplomats as well as high-ranking Egyptians. In February, a Palestinian Islamic group in Lebanon took responsibility for an attack on a tour bus east of Cairo in which nine Israelis were shot to death. The assailants have never been found.
As the gulf crisis has unfolded, the Egyptian authorities have said members of a Palestinian terrorist group led by Abu Nidal, who is now reported to be based in Baghdad, have been seized trying to enter the country.
''Iraq is pushing forces to create a state instability for us, strike at some installations, throw some bombs and use arms to attack buses,'' Mr. Mubarak said in a speech on Oct. 4. ''We caught them. We will arrest the rest.''
The Egyptian authorities' fear, according to officials, is that a wave of terrorist attacks in Egypt could undermine Mr. Mubarak's position on the gulf crisis by forcing Egyptians to conclude that his policies had backfired.
But the Egyptian leader has shown no sign so far of modifying his opposition to President Saddam Hussein of Iraq. A presidential statement tonight implicitly linked the assassination of Mr. Mahgoub to the perceived Iraqi effort to undermine Egypt's gulf role.
''This detestable crime, which stooped to the lowest depths of treachery and cowardice, can never affect our great people's determination to continue to give for the sake of God and the homeland and to protect the sanctities of the Arab and Muslim nations and safeguard their vital interests,'' it said.
The United States condemned the assassination as ''the most vile kind of terrorism,'' and President Bush telephoned Mr. Mubarak to convey his condolences.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Abel Khalek al-Mahgoub leaning on the car in which his brother, Rifaat al-Mahgoub, Egypt's Parliament Speaker, was shot to death yesterday. (Agence France-Presse); Rifaat al-Mahgoub, who was assassinated yesterday in Cairo. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KUWAIT (92%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NILE RIVER (73%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); EGYPT'S PARLIAMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EGYPT; CAIRO (EGYPT)

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS ASSASSINATION (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); RELIGION (90%); SEDANS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WITNESSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TERRORISM (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; MAHGOUB, RIFAAT EL- TZIPORA LIVNI (71%); 



393 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
International 2-7
 
The United States and other nations were reported to be closer to a compromise Security Council resolution that would condemn Monday's violence in Jerusalem, but with language that could be accepted by Washington and avoid a split in the international coalition against Iraq. Page 1
 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and other Government leaders reacted angrily to the effort in the United Nations Security Council to approve a resolution condemning Israel for the shooting of 21 Palestinians outside Al Aksa Mosque on Monday. 5
 
The Speaker of Egypt's Parliament was assassinated in Cairo. Police officials and witnesses said gunmen on motorcycles sprayed his chauffeured sedan with automatic rifle fire before disappearing into the warrenlike streets of the Egyptian capital. 1
 
Iraq warned the Soviet Union that it could delay the departure of some of the 5,000 Soviet citizens still in Iraq, in effect making them hostages, if Moscow supplied the U.S. with information about Iraq's Soviet-supplied weapons and defense abilities. 4
 
King of Jordan to meet with Iraqi foreign minister 4
 
Kuwaiti exiles reunite in an imperfect harmony 4
 
257 Kuwait evacuees land at Raleigh airport 4
 
Iran is expected to receive a loan of as much as $300 million from the World Bank next year, American officials and banking specialists said. It would be the bank's first loan to the Teheran Government since before the 1979 Islamic revolution. 1 
 
The President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan, and former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto have parted ways in the 23 months since they joined hands to restore democracy to the country. 1
 
Muslim insurgents attacking Kabul 6
 
A gunman fired at Gen. Michel Aoun as he addressed supporters in Beirut, Lebanon, but the bullet missed the general and struck one of his aides, Aoun's radio station said. 3
 
German interior minister is shot at campaign rally 7
 
A court in the Soviet Union ordered two years in jail for a leader of Pamyat, a Russian nationalist group that disrupted a public meeting in Moscow last January with anti-Semitic threats. 3
 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and her Conservative Party are struggling to win enough political popularity to survive Britain's next general election, which will take place sometime before July 1992. 3
 
Rangan Journal: In Tibet, some wealth brings contentment 2
 
National 8-12, 26
 
House Democrats embraced a plan for cutting the deficit that was intended to portray their party as champions of the poor and middle class, while a battered White House sought to reassert some influence over the process. 1
 
A tax anomaly called ''the bubble'' has become a fixation for lawmakers, and one of the most oft asked questions on Capitol Hill these days is whether to pop it. 10
 
An effort by writers and publishers to pass a bill that would allow authors to quote liberally from letters, diaries and other unpublished material collapsed in Congress just as a compromise appeared to have been reached. 1
 
Backers of a major civil rights bill have made a number of concessions to secure White House support, but the Bush Administration rejected the revisions, saying the bill still would force employers to adopt quotas. 12
 
Illinois high court bars black slate from ballot 8
 
Prison officials across the country are grappling with a new question as death rows swell with inmates: How to execute a condemned criminal professionally and humanely? 1
 
Iran-contra case against ex-C.I.A. official ends 12
 
The Senate contest in North Carolina pitting Senator Jesse Helms against Harvey Gantt is turning into a struggle for the wallets of the nation. 8
 
Mayor Marion Barry's lawyer asked for a retrial, saying deputy U.S. marshals may have influenced jurors by telling them alternate jurors would have voted to convict the Mayor of all charges. 11
 
The East Coast was battered by a hurricane and the remnants of two tropical storms. Gale-force winds whipped the Outer Banks of North Carolina and up to a foot of rain fell in South Carolina and Georgia. 11
 
The Senate passed legislation that would require a teen-age girl to notify a parent before obtaining an abortion in any hospital or clinic that receives Federal funds, a category that involves virtually all such centers. 26
 
Regional 27-29
 
New York City's fiscal woes became ever more apparent as the Dinkins administration announced that it would cut $2.3 billion it planned to spend on capital programs in the next three years. 1
 
Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman has painted a far worse picture of New York City's fiscal health than Mayor Dinkins. The potential budget deficits, she said, could be twice as large as Mr. Dinkins has projected. 27
 
News analysis: A recycling program in New York City is in deep trouble, and its survival depends largely on whether the city can rein in collection costs while encouraging more New Yorkers to cooperate. 27
 
A congressional race in New Jersey pits two candidates who are scrambling to out-anti-government one another. The Democrat is running against Gov. Jim Florio's tax increases, while the Republican opposes President Bush's budget. 27
 
Press secretary to Governor Cuomo plans to resign 29
 
E.M.S. director resigns his post amid criticism 29
 
Chess history may have been made at the Hotel Macklowe in Manhattan Wednesday night with Gary Kasparov's overwhelming victory over Anatoly Karpov in the second game of the World Chess Championship. 27
 
Metro-North studying a new Hudson bridge 28
 
Taxi commission investigates medallion pricing and loans 29
 
Bensonhurst defendant faults mistrial 29
 
Two officers held on charges of selling illegal handguns 29
 
New York City says ''harmless'' snakes may be venomous 29
 
Business Digest 33
 
Sports
 
Baseball: Reds pitch way to pennant on 1-hitter 45
 
Strange moves by managers 45
 
A's work out and try to heal 46
 
Basketball: $8 million deal for Drexler 45
 
Column: Berkow on Clemens incident 45
 
Hockey: Homecoming for Trottier 45
 
Rangers shut out Canadiens 47
 
Consumer's World 31
 
How good are buyer satisfaction surveys?
 
New cars and rebates
 
Coping with medical insurance claims
 
Obituaries 30
 
J. W. (Bill) Fisher, an industrialist and a philanthropist
 
Dr. John H. Talbott, a researcher and an educator
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
NC-17 rating meets opposition 13
 
Endowment isn't all smiles 13
 
Theater: Beckett's ''Happy Days'' 17
 
Music: Riverside Symphony 14
 
American Jazz Orchestra 13
 
Geri Allen on piano 15
 
Books: The Polk case 18
 
TV: ''The Ginger Tree'' on PBS 48
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed 
 
Editorials 24
 
What? Hike defense spending?
 
The golden door, ajar
 
Helping break the ice in Korea
 
Fred Hechinger: Boycotts
 
Letters 24
 
Russell Baker: In relief of C-Span 25
 
Flora Lewis: South Korea's wall 25
 
Camilo Jose Cela: Distracted by high honors 25
 
Judith McGowan: In the Bronx, a dubious victory 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (92%); KUWAIT (92%); LEBANON (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TIBET (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (58%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (58%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (51%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); EYEWITNESSES (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); RELIGION (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (56%); 



394 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD: Guidepost;
Lower-Rate Credit Cards

 BODY:

Holders of standard bank credit cards who maintain a revolving credit balance and pay an average annual rate of 18.72 percent or more can switch to lower-rate cards to get substantial monthly savings. Now is a good time to change, because this is the last year that interest rates paid on credit cards will be allowed as a deduction on itemized returns. Bankcard Holders of America, at 560 Herndon Parkway, Suite 120, Herndon, Va. 22070, (703) 481-1110, will provide a list of issuers of low-rate cards for $1.50. Here are the most common annual percentage rates offered and the savings that can be achieved with two rates lower than 18.72 percent, based on an outstanding balance of $2,500. 

$	 	 	Rate	 Monthly Interest	Annual Savings	18.72%	 $39.00	 -----	16.5%	 34.38	 $55.50	14%	 29.17	 118.00	
 
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, North Palm Beach, Fla.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (75%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (55%); BANKCARD HOLDERS OF AMERICA (57%); BANKCARD HOLDERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; INTEREST (MONEY) CREDIT CARDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); 



395 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD;
New Cars, Rebates And Warranties

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 12

 BODY:
The 1991 automobile models have arrived amid economic conditions gloomy enough to dishearten buyers. But a silver lining for consumers is the significant cash rebates that have been available on many new models since Sept. 26, the day they were introduced.
In previous years the manufacturers were able to delay offering rebates on many new models for weeks or months in the hope that buyer demand would be strong enough to stave off rebates.
As usual, every car and truck sold as a 1991 model will be advertised as ''new and improved.'' But only a few represent distinct changes or improvements on their predecessors. Here is a look at some of what is new. 
 
The New G.M. Saturn
One of the most important new cars is the Saturn line of sporty compacts from the General Motors Corporation, which go on sale at a handful of new dealerships in the South and West on Oct. 25. A G.M. spokesman said Saturn dealers on the East Coast will not open until after January. As with all new cars, the rate of production is increasing very slowly.
Saturn is G.M.'s most ambitious effort to recapture buyers by duplicating the quality and performance of Japanese small cars. The basic Saturn costs less than $8,000, and most reviewers have been complimentary after driving early prototypes.
Other major developments from General Motors include a new and powerful 3.4-liter multivalve engine to be offered in certain versions of the Pontiac Grand Prix, the Chevrolet Lumina and the Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme. Until recently, domestic manufacturers have been reluctant to pursue this technology, which employs more than the normal two valves per piston and generally delivers more power from a smaller and lighter engine.
The Oldsmobile 98 and Buick Park Avenue from General Motors are restyled, while the Cadillac division has an improved V-8 engine that increases horsepower output to 200 from 180 while also slightly increasing fuel efficiency. In a few months Buick will bring out its full-size Roadmaster, similar to the Chevrolet Caprice introduced earlier this year.
 
Ford Escort, Mazda Protege
Earlier this year the Ford Motor Company introduced a new Escort that was completely redesigned in partnership with the Mazda Motor Corporation. The Escort, with a base price of $7,976, is very similar to the Mazda Protege, $9,359.
Ford brought out a four-door utility vehicle, the Explorer, $15,406, a few months ago. It will compete with G.M.'s new four-door Blazer, $15,308, and the ChryslerCorporation's Jeep Cherokee four-door at $13,992. These and other prices given here are for the lowest-priced models. Buyers typically will spend several hundred or several thousand dollars more.
Ford also has a new V-8 engine this year that cost about $1 billion to develop. It belongs to a family of new engines that will be lighter and more powerful than the engines they replace. At present, only a few are being made for the Lincoln Town Car.
Chrysler's new Dodge Caravan and Plymouth Voyager minivans, $13,215, were introduced in the summer and remain the most popular of their type. The interiors are slightly restyled, and Chrysler has replaced some instruments, made the sliding door easier to use and adjusted the suspension to improve handling.
Some noteworthy enhancements for the 1991 models have nothing to do with metal, plastic or leather. Cadillac is dropping the cash deductible of $100 that applied to most of its warranties. Ford is doing the same for its Lincoln models, and is halving its $100 deductible on all other cars.
Until now, customers who needed repairs covered by their cars' warranties were compelled to pay a cash deductible for each repair, a requirement that alienated many owners, especially since most Japanese and European luxury models have warranties with no cash deductible. Dropping the deductible probably will raise the auto makers' warranty costs, but improved quality should eventually reduce them. At any rate, most dealers say that dropping or lowering the deductible is a good way to win back customers.
Among imports, the Toyota Tercel subcompact, $6,488, has been restyled inside and out. The Nissan Motor Corporation has a new Sentra model at $7,999, and an additional model for its Infiniti luxury line, the G20, $17,500. Hyundai, the South Korean auto maker, has added the two-door Scoupe (as in scoop), a sporty subcompact at $8,395, to its line.
From Europe, Volvo's 940 series, costing $27,855 to $32,950, now has the mechanical characteristics of the 760 series, but with a more rounded body.
The Honda Motor Company's new Acura NSX is a $60,000 high-performance sports car designed to be competitive with Ferraris, Porsches and Lamborghinis at a considerably lower price. Honda says only 3,000 Acura NSX's will be sold in this country.

GRAPHIC: The Saturn, at top, the car General Motors hopes will recapture buyers of imported cars (General Motors). Toyota has introduced a restyled Tercel, middle, (General Motors) and Ford has a new Escort, redesigned in partnership with Mazda. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); 7261 (TSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SATURN CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (86%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (83%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REBATES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS SALES REBATES (91%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



396 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD;
A Car Is Rated Most Trouble-Free, But How Good Is That?

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER

 BODY:
The advertisement says that J. D. Power and Associates ranks the car as ''the most trouble-free'' in its class. That's good for the prospective buyer, right? Well, maybe. Or maybe it's just good for the automobile maker who is choosing to advertise only part of the information the Power survey provided.
Some manufacturers are using the results of the Power group's buyer satisfaction surveys in ways that may confuse consumers. And some consumer advocates are unhappy that the company refuses to provide information about cars that do poorly in the surveys. 
John D. Power 3d, president of the company, based in Agoura Hills, Calif., said the advertisements that use his studies were helpful to car buyers. But he acknowledged that his company stopped releasing negative data about new cars four years ago after automobile makers threatened to stop buying his surveys.
''Manufacturers are the ones who pay for the studies,'' Mr. Power said in a telephone interview, ''and we had a number of poorer performers tell us that if you are going to release this stuff to the public, why should we fund the study?''
 
The Surveys Used in Ads
The Power company conducts two surveys of customer satisfaction that are often used in advertising. They are the Initial Quality Survey and the Customer Satisfaction Index.
The Initial Quality Survey polls about 90,000 buyers of cars and utility vehicles. Their names are selected randomly from car registrations across the country in the first 60 to 90 days of ownership. About 35 percent respond. The survey, which covers individual models, focuses on such mechanical problems as engine and brake performance, squeaks, rattles, steering and handling. The questionnaires go out soon after new models reach showrooms in October and results are reported in February.
The Customer Satisfaction Index is based on car lines - all Buicks, for example - rather than on individual models. About 100,000 buyers chosen at random are polled about one year after they buy their vehicles, and about 35 percent respond. The survey looks at mechanical problems and services provided by dealers.
 
Quality of the Research
Several consumer advocates said that in general, they like the research techniques used by the Power company and its emphasis on buyer satisfaction.
''I think satisfaction in a car is really important, because performance is the same between many cars,'' said Robert Knoll, head of the auto test division of Consumer Reports magazine, which tests cars and also surveys owner satisfaction. Mr.Knoll said that with a few exceptions, the cars that receive high ratings from Power surveys also rank high in Consumer Reports' surveys.
Car makers definitely like the surveys. ''A win in one of their categories is regarded as a plus for the product,'' said J. David Hudgens, a spokesman for the General Motors Corporation. The impact on sales of a high rating can be substantial. For consumers, however, the Power studies can be confusing. The major surveys have more than 20 categories in which winners can claim bragging rights, everything from compact minivans to midsize specialty cars to sports cars. This year manufacturers are using Power findings to tout 12 models, a promotional flood that concerns even Mr. Power.
''We run the risk of putting ourselves out of the business of providing this information if it becomes irrelevant,'' said Mr. Power, who worked as a market researcher for the Ford Motor Company before he started his own business in 1971.
Consumer advocates are more worried about the impressions some advertisements may be leaving. They point out one for the Chevrolet Lumina that calls it ''the most trouble-free car in its class,'' citing Power's 1990 Initial Quality Survey. The claim is accurate, but the competition wasn't tough; the survey found that in the number of problems reported, the Lumina finished below the industry average. But the other domestic cars in Lumina's midsize specialty class scored even worse.
''It is very easy for advertisers to take these ratings out of context,'' said Jack Gillis, author of ''The Car Book'' (Harper & Row, $8.95), an annual publication that rates cars based on data collected by the Federal Government.
Four years ago the Power company began reviewing ads the car makers proposed to use, and charging the manufacturers sizable fees for the work. Mr. Power defends the Chevrolet Lumina promotion. ''The industry average is not bad,'' he said, ''so even if you are just below it doesn't mean the car is bad.''.
 
Bowing to Industry Pressure
Consumer advocates agree that the Power research techniques and results appear immune to industry influence. But with the industry supporting his work, Mr. Power is not as free as Consumer Reports, for one, which takes no money or advertising from car producers and refuses to let them use its ratings in promotions.
Mr. Gillis said, ''When you decide to sell information to the people you are reviewing, you destroy the arm's-length relationship.''
Mr. Power acknowledges that he has bowed to pressure from the industry at least once. Until four years ago, his company made public the names of cars that scored poorly on the surveys, and this valuable data made its way into Mr. Gillis's books and other publications.
The company stopped releasing the names of cars that buyers were unhappy with at the same time it began charging manufacturers fees to review their advertisements, but Mr. Powers said there was no connection between the moves.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The claim in the advertisement at left is drawn from the data on the Lumina that were reported in the J. D. Power survey, above; chart: Survey on ratings of 10 best cars n areas of initial quality and customer satisfaction (J.D. Power)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (60%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CONSUMER PROTECTION CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MARKETING SURVEYS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); QUALITY CONTROL (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY; POWER, J D, & ASSOCIATES JOHN D POWER (95%); 



397 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Day Mixed; Trading Termed 'Nervous'

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mixed yesterday in trading that currency dealers said was influenced by many factors, from uncertainty about the Federal budget negotiations to falling oil prices.
''This is just a very volatile market,'' said Lloyd G. Atkinson, chief economist with the Bank of Montreal. ''There's not much to make out of trends. It's just a very, very nervous market.''
Mr. Atkinson said foreign traders were shocked by developments in Washington, where budget negotiators have been unable to reach an agreement on a plan to reduce the deficit.
 
Bush's Shifting Stance
''I'm astounded in terms of the flip-flop that's going on on the part of George Bush,'' Mr. Atkinson said, referring to the President's shifting stance on raising taxes for the wealthy in exchange for a cut in the capital gains tax.
The dollar settled in New York at 129.05 Japanese yen, down from 129.47 on Thursday. In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.65 yen to close at 129.30 yen. Later, in London, it fell to 128.65 yen. A British pound fetched $1.9675 in New York, less than the $1.9775 of late Thursday. But earlier in London, the pound rose to $1.9740, from $1.9640 late Thursday.
Against the German currency, the dollar rose to 1.5243 marks, from 1.5138.
 
Other Selected Rates
Other selected late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday rates were: 1.2860 Swiss francs, up from 1.2730; 5.1055 French francs, up from 5.0705; 1,142.25 Italian lire, up from 1,134.75, and 1.1471 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1468.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Thursday, included: 1.5175 German marks, down from 1.5330; 1.2780 Swiss francs, down from 1.2910; 5.0855 French francs, down from 5.1292; 1.7110 Dutch guilders, down from 1.7280; 1,137.25 Italian lire, down from 1,147.25; 1.1470 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1512.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (72%); BMO (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (72%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (68%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 



398 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Silver Prices Rebound a Bit; Some See Bottom of a Slide

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Silver prices rose yesterday after hitting a 14-year low that some analysts said might have marked the bottom of a steep slide.
On other commodity markets, gold futures dropped and orange juice collapsed.
Silver settled 7 cents to 7.1 cents higher on New York's Commodity Exchange, with the contract for spot delivery up 7.1 cents at $4.306 an ounce. 
Gold ended $2.20 to $2.30 lower, with the spot October contract at $387.50 an ounce.
Spot silver opened at $4.20 on the Commodity Exchange after tumbling as low as $4.05 overnight on overseas markets. The overnight price represented the metal's lowest price since late 1976, when silver hit $3.80, according to the Commodity Exchange.
The fact that prices rebounded after nearing $4 may indicate the market is seeking or has found a bottom, analysts said.
Don Tierney, metals analyst with Fortune Commodities Inc. in New York, said it costs $4 to $4.50 an ounce to mine domestic silver.
''With the market holding above that magic $4 number, it will look attractive to traders looking for a new, cheap position,'' he said.
Bruno Zbinden, chief of precious metal trading for the Swiss Bank Corporation, said he would not rule out a price dip below $4 an ounce, ''but this is a level where investors should be able to buy silver and do nicely over the long term.''
Silver's plunge from about $4.70 an ounce began Tuesday, prompted by mounting fears that a recession would curtail industrial demand for the metal.
Some analysts said yesterday's gain of almost 33 points in the Dow Jones industrial average may have helped ease recession worries.
Orange juice futures plunged on the New York Cotton Exchange after the Agriculture Department released a Florida orange harvest projection on Thursday that was far above expectations.
The near-term contract, for delivery in November, opened down the permitted daily limit of 10 cents a pound, forcing a trading halt. Trading resumed with an expanded limit of 20 cents in the November contract.
Frozen concentrated orange juice for November delivery settled down 16.45 cents at $1.1345 a pound. All other delivery months fell their permitted limit of 5 cents.
The Agriculture Department estimated a Florida orange harvest of 165 million 90-pound boxes and a yield of 1.52 gallons a box compared with last year's frost-reduced harvest of 110.2 million boxes and yield of 1.23 gallons a box.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COMMODITIES TRADING (93%); SILVER MARKETS (93%); FUTURES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (90%); SPOT MARKET (90%); FIBER MARKETS (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); ORANGE GROVES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); METALS MARKETS (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (77%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); DROUGHT (67%); 



399 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Note and Bond Prices Rise Sharply

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds rebounded strongly yesterday, while bills posted only minimal changes.
The Treasury, meanwhile, announced that it planned to auction a record $10.75 billion of one-year bills on Thursday, assuming Congress raises the national debt ceiling.
Dealers said the strength of the Treasury issues yesterday largely reflected the lack of a big surprise in the Producer Price Index for September released by the Government before the New York market opened.
While the index of wholesale prices rose 1.6 percent last month, much of the increase was attributed to big jumps in oil and gasoline prices, which had been expected by market analysts. 
 
Benchmark Bond Yields 8.95%
Buoyed in part by weaker oil prices, the Treasury's benchmark long bonds, the 8.75 percent issue maturing in August 2020, were offered late in the day at 97 28/32, up 1 3/32, as the yield tumbled to 8.95 percent, from 9.07 percent the day before. But the bond's yield was still well above the 8.78 percent of a week ago.
Among other representative Treasury issues traded in the secondary market, the 8 1/8 percent notes of 1992 rose 5/32, to 100 13/32, to yield 7.89 percent, and the new 8 3/4 percent notes of 1997 soared 17/32, to 100 14/ 32, as the yield dropped to 8.66 percent, from the average of 8.76 percent at the auction on Wednesday.
The Treasury's long notes, the 8 3/4's of August 2000, climbed 19/32, to 99 20/32, for a yield of 8.80 percent. A week ago, their yield was 8.63 percent.
''Leaving aside the daily flow of Mideast war and peace rumors, the Treasury bond market was somewhat oversold earlier in the week because of the Street's dismay at the budget wrangling in Washington,'' said Robert H. Chandross, chief economist at Lloyds Bank. ''The short end of the Treasury market continues to expect the Federal Reserve to ease the key funds rate by perhaps a quarter-point once a budget is enacted.''
 
Fed Funds Barely Move
As it was, the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for temporary loans and is thus considered the bedrock cost of credit, traded at 7 15/16 percent for most of the session before closing at 7 7/8 percent, slightly below the Fed's perceived target of 8 percent.
Partly as a result, the discount rates on Treasury bills, which would be the most immediately affected by any cut or rise in the funds rate, showed minimal changes. The 90-day bills were unchanged at 7.15 percent; the six-month bills gained a basis point, or hundredths of a perentage point, at 7.15 percent, and the one-year bills rose three basis points, to 7.09 percent.
The record Treasury auction schedule for Thursday depends on Congress's raising the national debt ceiling from the present temporary level of $3.195 trillion. Mr. Chandross said that while a bill to raise the debt ceiling is currently tied up in the budget process, ''We can expect the debt ceiling to be raised, even if they don't get around to producing a budget deficit-reduction package.''
 
Inflation Data Played Down
Traders also shrugged off the Government's report of a 1.1 percent jump in September retail sales because the data were inflated, largely by sharply higher energy prices. But the sales data helped create a climate in which dealers slashed the prices of the high-yielding ''junk bonds'' of Macy's and Carter Hawley Hale department store chains.
Macy's 14 percent bonds of 1998 fell $30 for each $1,000 of face value, to $480; the 14's of 2001 lost $20, to $290; while the 14.5's of 1998 fell $30, to $480, and the 14.5's of 2001 slipped $20, to $290.
Dealers also reported that Carter Hawley Hale's 12 1/4 percent bonds of 1996 dropped $30, to $480, and the 12 1/2's of 2002 lost $20, to $410.
But dealers also noted that even the debt of high-grade corporations met with only tepid demand yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (52%); LLOY (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (52%); PRICES OF TREASURY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (75%); DEBT CEILING (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (71%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J BOND YIELDS (58%); 



400 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Uruguay and Banks Reach Accord on Debt

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Uruguay and its commercial bankers announced an initial agreement yesterday to reorganize the country's $1.6 billion in foreign bank loans, including provisions to reduce the country's debt.
The debt accord, announced in a statement released in New York, is the sixth reached under the Bush Administration's strategy, known as the Brady Plan, aimed at reducing the debt burden on developing countries. It is named for Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady. The first agreement with significant debt reduction was reached with Mexico last year. Just this week, bankers began what could be difficult negotiations with Brazil, the biggest debtor among developing countries. 
William R. Rhodes, senior executive-international at Citibank, the head of the bank advisory committee, said the agreement ''should strengthen the hand of the President of Uruguay in his effort to restructure the economy and privatize state companies.''
 
Options for Banks
Under the voluntary plan to which Uruguay agreed, banks can choose between two debt-reduction options or a plan to provide new loans.
One debt-reduction option reduces the interest rate on existing loans to 6.75 percent. The current rate is the London interbank offered rate (now around 8 percent), plus 13-sixteenths of a percentage point. Uruguay will also set up a fund that will guarantee the interest payments, an enhancement for the bankers that has become a fixture in Brady Plan deals.
Under the second debt-reduction option, Uruguay will propose to buy back existing loans at a discount. Loans to Uruguay are now trading at close to 50 cents on the dollar in the debt market. Bankers said Uruguay is likely to offer a slightly higher price to the banks.
Under the third option, banks can offer to make new loans to Uruguay. If they do, they will lend an amount equal to 20 percent of their outstanding loans. Unlike Venezuela, which negotiated a debt-reduction agreement this year, and Brazil, Uruguay was not behind in its interest payments, a factor that smoothed the negotiations. Bankers also stressed that the agreement is voluntary, leaving banks the alternative of choosing none of the options.
But Uruguayan officials said they thought most of the nearly 100 foreign banks would participate in the agreement. Peter McPherson, executive vice president of the Bank of America, said last night that the bank, which is one of Uruguay's largest creditors, would choose one of the three options.
Bankers have said that the deals reached with Mexico and Venezuela, although officially voluntary, all but required the banks to participate. Other countries that have reached agreements are Costa Rica, the Philippines and Morocco. Uruguay's total debt is about $4.5 billion, including that owed to governments, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
Bankers said yesterday that the Brazilians, who began negotiations on Thursday, made an offer that was quickly ruled unacceptable. The proposal, which would cover the country's $60 billion in commercial bank debt, included the conversion of debt to 45-year bonds and a lottery that would determine which banks would be paid first.
The bankers were most annoyed that Brazil made no proposal to begin to pay some portion of the country's more than $8 billion in unpaid interest. The chief negotiator, Jorio Dauster, said no payments would be made until January at the earliest. In addition, one proposal made to the bankers included consolidating the unpaid interest with the existing debt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: URUGUAY (98%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MOROCCO (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;URUGUAY

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

 
